We mettons of brand new tech startupsat CES this year and saw gadgets ranging from health-focused wearables, drones, 3D printers, and AR/VR headsets. Weeven got views of the Las Vegas strip from 1,000 feet off the groundin the UberCHOPPER. These were the hottesthardware startups and most interestinggadgets from the show, and you can find our full coverage of this years show here.1. TheEHang 184 is a human-sized drone built by the Chinese UAV company EHang. It is an autonomous drone thatwill be able to carry a single passenger for 23 minutes at a speed of 60 MPH. The 184 also has gull-wing doors and arms that fold up.2. Lenovo announced that the company would be producing the first GoogleProject Tangophone.The conference was short on details, butwe know is that Lenovo is going to release a phone that is going to cost less than $500 this summer. The company doesnt have a final design just yet, but pictured above is a glimpse one of the 5designs.3. Garmins Varia Vision is an augmented reality display that you mount to your sunglasses. And its not just about displaying how well youre doing, it can alert you about traffic and directions. The$400 device could be a dream come true for cyclists when it comes out in Q1 2016.4. Parrot unveiled the700-gram Parrot Disco drone, and we went hands-on.It can fly up to 45 minutes and reach speeds ofjust under 50 mph. The 1080p 14-megapixel camera at the front of the drone is the same one thatParrot used for its Bebop 2 quadcopter.5.The Daqri smart helmet is an industrial device that projects important information in front of the eyes of the wearer. It doubles as a hard hat and safety goggles making it ideal for anyone working with heavy machinery or in technical fields.6. The Nima from 6 Sensor Labs is a$249 gadget that can test food for gluten in under 2 minutes with antibody-based test and disposable pods. Something like this could change the lives of those with Celiac disease or gluten sensitivity. 6 Sensor Labs took home the $50,000 Hardware Battlefield grand prize.7. The GoSun Stoveis a solar powered grill thatuses a unique design that directs sunlight towards a cylinder, which the company says can heat up to 550 degrees in some models in 10 to 20 minutes. The food cooks inside a solar evacuated tube that absorbs more than 80% of the sunlight reflected onto the tube.8.Lexus had their new hoverboard on display. The car company has said that it uses magnetic levitation and liquid nitrogen cooled superconductors and permanent magnets to achieve hover flight.9. We spoke with Bonaverdes Hans Stier on our Battlefield stageabout their end-to-end connected coffee machine.10. The Grillbot is like a Roomba for your grill. Lazy grillers can appreciatearobot that you plop down to automatically clean your dirty grill. Selling for $129, the robot has three replaceable metal bristles that help the robot both clean and move around your grill.The device has a rechargeable battery, three electric motors, and an LCD alarm and timer so you can leave it and walk away while it does its thing. However it can only work on surfaces cooler than 200 degrees.