It was a big week in tech, including everything from Disrupt SF 2015, the launch of the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus and a big Oculus announcement. But before we get into the top stories of this week, a quick recap of Disrupt. This year, Agrilyst, a startup that helps greenhouse operators run their operations more efficiently, took home the Disrupt Cup as well as the $50,000 Startup Battlefield grand prize. We had top tech influencersspeak on stage, and you can find our full coverage here. Disrupt aside, here are the top tech stories of the week.1.The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus launched, and Matthew Panzarino reviewed the devices,expandingon whatsnew such as 3D Touch, 4K video, and Live Photos. Its now clear thatApple has been evolving its processors between the tick and tock cycles.2.After a delayed release due to an unexpected bug, Apple released watch OS 2. Matthew Panzarinodove into how watch OS 2 will not just change our digital lives, butour physical ones.3.The new $99 Oculus-made Samsung Gear VR was revealedat the Oculus Connect conference. It works with the whole 2015 line of Samsung Smartphones including the Note 5, S6, S6 Edge, and S6 Edge+. Josh Constine pointed outthat the new systemis cheap enough to unlock virtual reality for the mainstream.4.The tech community grieved Jake Brewer, an avid cyclist and asenior policy advisor to U.S. Chief Technology Officer Megan Smith,who tragically passed away.5.Ingrid Lunden reported that Groupon is cutting1,100 jobs,mostly in its sales and customer service operations, and taking a pre-tax charge of $35 million in the process.6.Kim-Mai Cutler wrote a piece about Ubers new office in Oakland, California and the impact the tech community has had onthe city.7.Journalists got some inbox candyfrom Google an invite to an event on September 29. Drew Olanoff wrote that Google will have many more launches in the future, but what will be interesting to see is whether Sundar Pichai turns up, as it is the first major event that will happensince he has filled the role of CEO.8.Pebble shifted things up when it debuted its first round smartwatch, the Pebble Time Round. The smartwatchwill come in a few different styles: a leather strap in a variety of color for $249, or with a metal band in gold or black for $299.9.Instagram announced that it hit 400 million users. This camejust nine months after announcing that the social photo-sharing apphit the 300 million mark.10.Snoop Dogg, the world-renowned entertainment icon and unofficial representative of all things weed,launched Merry Jane, a pot-flavored lifestyle media platform at Disrupt SF.11.We learned that Arielle Zuckerberg, the younger sister of Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg, is joining Kleiner Perkinsnext monthin a bid by the firmto injectyouth and diversity into itsline-up of partners.