This week Apple.com got a significantredesign, a Time magazine cover featuring Palmer Luckey went viral, Netflix announced a huge perk for its employees, and we found out what its like to use Amazon Dash buttons. Hereare the top storiesof the week.1. Virtual reality became a meme this week, again. An upcoming Time magazine cover, featuring Palmer Luckey, founder of Oculus Rift, made its debut, and the Internet went crazy. Drew Olanoffargued that thiscover story put the weakest part of VR on display, its goofy full-face-mask nerdery. John Biggs also wrote about the coming of VR in his piece, Yuck It Up, Humanity, Because VR Is Going To Make Things Really Weird.2. Should Apple be concerned that a number of popular app makers have yet to embrace its Apple Watch platform? Thats a questionraised by a recent New York Times piece detailing how manydevelopers are taking a wait-and-see approach when it comes to Apples new wearable. Sarah Perez argues that maybe the right question to ask is not, where are the apps, but rather, do we even need them?3.Facebook launched Liveas a feature in its Mentions app thats only available to celebrities with a verified Page. Josh Constine explains thatif Facebook can use the same reach that attracted celebrities in the first place to invade live-streaming, it could create tons of compelling video content to fill its feed and mask its ads.4. We took the 2016 Audi TTs virtual cockpit for a spin. In other car-relatednews, researchers hacked a Tesla Model S.5. Lucas Matney wrote about six killer Xbox One announcements Microsoft made, including a new Windows 10-powered interface.6. In a continuing study done with CrunchBase about female founders, we found that the top schools for women entrepreneurs are Stanford, Harvard, and MIT.7.It was another big week for earnings.Etsy, HTC, Zendesk, Dish, Fitbit, Netflix, Tesla, GoDaddy, Zynga, Nvidia, Arista, and New Relic all reported in on Q2 performance (click on the company for the full analysis). Highlights includeTwitter fallingeven further, GoDaddy retreating, andEtsys stock price declining despite it beating expectations. Fitbit also managed to spank expectations, only to fall itself. Its rough out there.8.OneLogin platform engineer Isis Wengermade waves this week with the #ILookLikeAnEngineer campaign, which aims to spread awareness aboutdiversity in tech. The campaign, which started as a billboard in San Francisco, now has its ownIndiegogo pageto raise money for a new billboard.9. Steve OHear interviewedVC Eileen Burbidge. She discussed being fired at Skype, founder psychosis, and her close ties to the U.K.government.10.A redesign of Apple.com that went live this weekremoved the standalone Store tab, and the store.apple.com domain entirely. This is an enormous change for one of the biggest online retail stores in the world.11. Amazon cut back on Prime benefits, makingit so that Prime users can now only share Primebenefits with one other adult. We also gave the new Amazon Dash button a try.12.Netflix announced a new landmark perk for its employees which gives new mothers and fathers unlimited maternity and paternity leave. Microsoft quickly followed suit.13. Yahoo announced it reached an agreement to acquire style-focused communityPolyvore. Sarah Buhr talked to Polyvore co-founder Jess Lee about why she sold her company, and what the acquisition will mean for the Polyvore community.