From Anonymous leaking account information to rumors of Microsoft building a new browser,here are the top stories from 12/27-1/2.1.Following through on threats of a Christmas hack, a Twitter account claiming affiliation with Anonymous released a list of usernames and passwords for 13,000 accounts on Amazon, PlayStation, XBox Live, Hulu Plus, Walmart and other retail and entertainment services.2.There are enormous implications of Facebook indexing 1 trillion of our posts. Josh Constine explains howFacebook just went from data rich to Scrooge-McDuck-swimming-in-a-tower-full-of data rich.3.Snapchat raised $485 million more from 23 investors.4. On New Years Eve, Indias government asked ISPs to block GitHub, Vimeo, and 30 other websites.Today the government said it has lifted the block on GitHub, Vimeo, Weebly and Daily Motion, but the other websites remain blacklisted.5. Microsoft is rumored to be building a new, lightweight browser called Spartan.6.The Tesla Model S P85D packs dual electric motors and all-wheel drive. Its basically a Porsche-killer that can transport seven people, and it utterly destroys the previous king of Teslas, the P85, in this video.7.United and Orbitz have sued hidden cities flight search engineSkiplagged.8. Everyone has had problems with a cable company. ThisComcast customer spends four hours canceling his account.9. We chatted with 7 venture capitalists, and they offered some predictions for what 2015 will bring us.10. Danny Crichton argues that what is missing from the immigration debate in Silicon Valley is trust.11.Price strategy is emerging as a critical path for companies to increase their competitive advantage and bottom line. Here are the top 10 pricing mistakes companies are making.12. Montblanc announced a smart bracelet for your fancy watch, but John Biggs is skeptical of the survival of mechanical watch makers.13. Ron Miller took a look at cybersecurity and how difficult it will be for companies to prevent hacks like that of Sony or Target. If you cant lock down your company, what can you do?