This week, Apple battled with the FBI amid an order to unlock an iPhone belonging to one of the terrorists involved in the San Bernardino shooting, Kanye West made waves in the tech world when his new album launched exclusively on Tidal, the new Samsung Galaxy phones leaked and much more. These are the top tech stories from this week.1.Apple CEO Tim Cook confirmed that the company will appeal a California judgesordertounlock an iPhone belonging to one of the terrorists involved in the San Bernardino shooting.Following the request, Cook argued that adhering to it would threaten the security of our customers.Matthew Panzarino broke down why Apple is taking this stance.Natasha Lomas detailed why Apple is right to do so and warned of the privacy concerns that would arise if Apple were to comply with the FBIs order. If youbackdoor one iPhone, you backdoor them all  and invite all governments, everywhere to do so. Throughout the week, Twitterand Google chimed in with support for Apple. Google CEO Sundar Pichai tweeted thatForcing companies to enable hacking could compromise users privacy. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey weighed in, too.We stand with @tim_cook and Apple (and thank him for his leadership)! https://t.co/XrnGC9seZ4 Jack (@jack) February 18, 20162.After scoring exclusive streaming rightsto Kanye Wests new album, The Life of Pablo, Tidal tookover the No. 1spot on the U.S. App Store. Kanye took it a step further, claiming that the LP willnever go on sale on iTunes or Apple Music.But things didnt go exactly as planned. Twitter was filled with complaints from consumers who saidthey paid for the album, but never received the download.3.Connie Loizos wrote that secondary shopsare flooded with unicorn sellers.Whilemany investors last year were seizing the chance to take advantage of booming prices, theyre now apparently trying to wring what they can out of their positions. Thatleaves secondary buyersleftto assess whether to buy now or wait to see if prices fall even further.4.There is a battle raging for curated social media supremacy.At events like The Grammys, which took place this week,each socialapp wants to be where you see the best of and behind the scenes. Josh Constine compared the strengths and shortcomings of Instagram Spotlights, Snapchat Live Stories and Twitter Momentswhen it comes to featuring events.Eye candy. pic.twitter.com/sIJXMx9o8G Evan Blass (@evleaks) February 13, 20165. Images ofSamsungs next Galaxy phones, the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, leaked everywhere. Not to be outdone by the leak, Samsung then touted the new phones fitness and privacy smarts ahead of the launch.6.Apple apologized and updated iOS to restore phones that were disabled by Error 53, a problem caused by unofficial repair shops replacing the connector that runs between the Touch ID sensor in an iPhones home button.7.Yahoo shuttered some of its content verticals, includingYahoo Food, Yahoo Healthand a few others, to focus on a new digital content strategy.8.Google introduceda new feature called Gmailify that will allow anyone to take advantage of Gmails spam protection, inbox organization, Google Now integrations, and more, withoutneeding a Gmail address.9.Popular GIF-making site Giphy closed a $55 million Series C round at a post-money valuation of $300 million. Now, its time to monetize.10.We learned that Facebook is planning to put ads in Messenger.A leaked document Facebook sent to some of its biggest advertisers reveals that Facebook will launch ads within Messenger in Q2 2016.11.IBM announced it will acquireTruven Health Analyticsfor a whopping $2.6 billion. It is the fourth major purchase for Watson Health since the unitwas establishedin 2014.12.We noticed Twitter testing an in-app GIF button on Android a few weeks ago, and now the company has formally announced that it islaunching the GIF search feature on iOS, Android and the web.13.Sarah Perez wrote about ThingMaker, a $300 3D printer that lets kids make their own toys.