It was a busy week filled with all things Apple, GoogleNEXT, and Y Combinator Winter Demo Day. Next week well have coverage of Microsoft Build, Teslas unveiling, and more. Until then, here are the top stories of the week.1. During akeynote on Monday,Apple unveiledthe iPhone SE, a smaller iPad Pro, new Apple Watch bands,and more. Heres everything you need to know from the event. Following the event, Natasha Lomas wrote a piece explaining why the Apple Watch price drop makes sense. Likewise, Jon Russell gave his thoughts on the new iPhone launch, arguingthat the iPhone SE is unlikely to make a splash in Asia.2. A number of big announcements were at GoogleNEXT, including a new machine learning platformand theopening of access to Googlesspeech recognition API.3. Hopefully next week will be better for Microsoft with Build because the past week hasnt been so hot. Last Thursday, Microsoft took some heat for a sexist party at GDC. This week, some Twitter users taught its new A.I. bot how to make racist remarks. Microsoft has since silenced the bot.4.Tech legend and former Intel CEO Andy Grove passedaway at age 79.5.During the Apple event, the first thing Tim Cook addressed was the case with the FBI. Shortly after the event ended, rumors started swirling that the case would be postponed. It ended up being postponed. Later it was revealed that the FBI plans to work withCellebrite to unlock the San Bernardino iPhone.6. Crunch Network contributor Tom Hadfield wrote a feature about howFacebooks Messenger Bot Store could be the most important launch since the App Store.7. Gawker gotbody-slammedby Hulk Hogan.Hogan was awarded $115 million in a case related to a sex tape that was posted online by Gawker.8. Mike Butcher did a live discussionwith UNICEF Lebanon on Facebook.9.Y Combinator held its Winter Demo Day. Here are the startups that pitched on day 1 and day 2, plus some of our favorites from day 1 and day 2.10.Amazon beganreselling Comcast services on its new site, the Amazon Cable Store. Sarah Perez notes that this is being touted as an exclusive for Amazon shoppers.11. With the recent algorithmic update to Instagrams feed, Crunch Network contributor Steve Feiner suggests that this is the death of Instagram for brands. If your business relies heavily on Instagram as a channel, customer acquisition is about to come with a hefty price tag instead of a perfectly edited photo. Josh Constine arguesthat algorithmic feeds force us to compete. A follow simply isnt enough any more. You need to have the best content to win.12. The CEO of Box, Aaron Levie, wrote a piece about the cloud wars. Levie argues that computing costs will continue to drop by orders of magnitude and offerings will be launched to solve some of the most fringe but vexing problems in IT. The cloud wars are only beginning.13. Boom is a startup that wants to build supersonic planes, andtheyll be getting manufacturing and design help from Virgin.