This week, Facebook made a selfie filter app acquisition, Google surprised us with the Android N preview and we ate bugs. Yeah, seriously. Silicon Valley is eating bugs now. These are the techheadlinesyou dont want to miss this week.1.Google unexpectedly announced the Android N Developer Preview and its available as an over-the-air update. Google says the company wanted to release the previewto get more feedback from developers earlierin the process, and get the final N release into the hands of device manufacturers this summer.2.Awhile ago,Snapchat bought Looksery to supercharge its animated selfie filters. Now Facebook has made an image-filtering acquisition of its own to keep up the messaging pace.MSQRD adds filters to your smartphone videos.3.The controversial people-rating app Peeple went live, and it has a plan to profit from negative reviews.The appwas described as a Yelp for humans. That is, you cansign up toleave reviews of anyone you know from co-workers and bosses to exes and friends.4.When Slack announced newvoice and video services,the startup signaled a move into the territory ofMicrosofts Skype.We heard from a source thatMicrosoft eyedSlack as a potential acquisition target for as much as $8 billion.Apparently,Bill Gates and CEO Satya Nadella were among those unconvinced by the idea, with Gates pushing instead to add more features toSkype to make it more competitive with Slack in the business market, said oursource.5.Apple shut down what appears to have beenthe first, fully functional ransomware targeting Mac computers. This particular form of cyber threat involves malware that encrypts the data on your personal computer so you can no longer access it. Afterwards, the hackers request that you pay them in order for you to retrieve your files.6.Facebook announced last month that it would be bringing the companys 360 dynamic streaming to Gear VR to improve experiences. Now,Oculus announcedthat the Oculus Video app on Gear VR would be incorporating a new Facebook video tab that lets you connect your Facebook and Oculus accounts to bring personalized info to your VR content absorption experience.Thiswill give individual VR users a more custom experience across virtual reality.7.Amazons logistics arm tooka big step forward by leasing a fleet of Boeing 767s that will ship packages to customers in North America.8.More and more people are using ad blockers. Mobile marketing company Tunereleaseda reportsaying that24.6 percent of survey respondents said that theyd downloaded an ad-blocking app or browser.9.Google made it so that youcan now sign up forProject Fi, the companysfirst foray into offering its owncell phone service,without an invite.10.Jordan Crook wrote about the massive impact social media has on the presidential election, and poses the question: What if Facebook forgotDonald Trump?11.In honor of International Womens Day, Megan Rose Dickey rounded up 21 women disrupting tech.12.We demoed theVirtuix Omni, a$699 device thatallows you to walk through virtual reality while wearing a VR headset.13.Silicon Valley produces some truly weird food concepts  like lab-grown hamburgers and Soylent. The latest experiment comes from Exo, a startup sellingprotein bars made of crickets. Yeah, you heard that right. They just raised a $4 million Series A, so we tried them.