It was a futuristic week in tech asFacebook laid out its 10-year plan at F8, SpaceX landed a rocket on a drone ship in the middle of the ocean, and another $100 million was pledged to send spacecraft to Alpha Centauri. These are techs biggest headlines of the week.1.Facebook held its annual F8 developer conference this week. Mark Zuckerberg laid out the 10-year roadmap for Facebook and announcedchatbots for Messenger, the new open-source360 Surround VR camera, the Live API and more. Josh Constine wrote about what it all means in Facebook Alive and Sarah Perez actually tried out the chatbots Facebook is currently partnered with. Heres a roundup of everything announced at F8.2.SpaceX successfully launched itsnext resupply mission to the International Space Station. In addition to a seamless launch, SpaceX landed the first stage of their Falcon 9 rocket on an autonomous drone ship for the very first time.3.Russian billionaireYuri Milner is pushing forward with the hunt for intelligent alien life beyond our planet, and is investing another $100 million to send a fleet of spacecraft to Alpha Centauri. Stephen Hawking and Mark Zuckerberg have signed on to invest, too.4.We already knew that the FBI had successfully hacked the San Bernardino shooters iPhone. But this week, it was reported that the iPhone was hacked using a zero-day exploit. The hack enabled the FBI to apparently usea custom-fabricated piece of hardware to brute-force all the possible four-digit passwords, eventually finding the correct PIN, and then accessing the contents on the San Bernardino iPhone.5.New datasurfaced showing that U.S. VC firms have gathered up the most money theyve raised in a decade.In hard numbers, 57 firms raised $12 billion in the first quarter, a 59 percent jump indollar commitments overthe first quarter of 2015.6.The situation for Theranos is getting worse.A federal agency plans to force founder Elizabeth Holmes out of theblood analysis startup for two years and take away the labs federal license.7.Snapchat is bringing augmented reality to the masses with3D stickers. Emojis can be pinned toobjects in a video and stick with them no matter how they or yourcamera move.8.We reviewed the HTC 10, and concluded that while its a solid phone, the company needs to convince mobile usersthey need it.9.Cancer immunotherapy is Sean Parkersnext big bet.The Napster founder and former Facebook president persuaded hundreds of top scientists to form an alliance to solve cancer using cutting-edge immunotherapy.10.We went hands-on with the Lytro Cinema, a volumetric 3D camera with capture technology that could eliminate the need for the green screen.11.Natasha Lomas writes about the relentless nature of tech, and how the tech world is always searching for the next big thing. But what if the modern smartphone is as good as it getsfor now?12.We got a peek at Amazons new Oasis Kindle, the smallest and lightest Kindle yet that comes with a handle for gripping.13.Ron Miller wrote about Autodesks Project Escher, a system that allows multiple 3D printing tools to work on one project simultaneously.