Were back from Disrupt NY, where we stayed up all night for the Hackathon, conducted numerous on-stage interviews withtech figures and heard from hundreds of startups on the products theyre building. We congratulate the Hackathon winner, Witness, and the Startup Battlefield winner, Liquidity, for taking home the grand prizes. While we were in the Big Apple, the news cycle did not stop turning.Here are our best stories from this past week (5/2-5/8).1. Ingrid Lunden wrote an obituary for Dave Goldberg, the Survey Monkey CEO with a large presence in the tech industry who recently passed away.2. Zenefits announced it raised $500 million in a round led by Fidelity and TPG at a $4.5 billion valuation.3.Fitbitfiled an S-1 declaring its plansfor a $100 million IPO.4.Facebook turnedInternet.org, its project to provide freeinternet to new users, into a platformopen to all developersin response to net neutrality concerns.5. Presidential candidate Carly Fiorina spoke in an on stage interview at Disrupt NY during which she highlightedthe unique skills a female candidate could bring to the Oval Office. CatZakrzewskipoints out the moment when her speech took a disappointing turn.6. We talked to Oculus VP of Product Nate Mitchell, who confirmed that the Gear VR headset is on track for consumer launch this year.7. Ron Miller wrote about the ways in which APIs can drive the rapid creation of software in APIs Fuel The Software Thats Eating The World.8. Mike Butcher wrote about the iPhone 6 case from Nikola Labs that pulls battery power from the air.9. Guest columnist Jon Evans urges developers to try Rust rather than C/C++, arguing that there is no longer any good reason for todays software to be as insecure as it is in Death to C.10. The zero-fee stock trading app Robinhood raised $50 millionfrom NEA to go global.11. Romain Dillet wrote about Case, a startup that created a secure hardware bitcoin wallet and launched on stage at Disrupt NY.12. Cameron and Tyler Winklevossspoke on stage at Disrupt NY, updating us on their recent bitcoin projects.13. We broke down the 10 rules that all successful startups should follow.