This weeks headlines saw both Square and First Data IPO, layoffs at Twitter, and a scathing Wall Street Journal report on Silicon Valley healthcare unicorn Theranos. On Bullish, TechCrunch hostedMelanie Araujo, who istrying to bolster diversity through design, and our TC Cribs team visited Funny Or Dies hilarious HQ. Here are the top stories of the week.1.In what is now the largest acquisition in tech history, Dell bought EMC for $67 billion or $33.15 a share.2.Square filed for IPO. The financial transactions companyreported in its S-1 document that during the first half of 2015, it had revenue of $560.6 million, and a loss of $77.6 million. The filing also showed thatco-founder and CEO Jack Dorsey (also CEO of Twitter) is the largest shareholder, owning 24.4 percent of the company.3.Twitter laid off8.2 percent of the companys global workforce. Romain Dillet wrote that thestructure of the company is going to change a bit after the layoffs.Stock roseover 5 percent after the announcement, signaling that investors also felt that it was time for Twitterto slim down.Twitter also poachedOmid Kordestani, Googles chief business officer.4.Payments processorFirst Data priced its IPOat $16 per share, below the expected range of $18-$20, all eyes were on the company to see how the years biggest IPO  raising $2.56 billion would perform in its debut. Katie Roof talks to First Data president live at the NYSE floor.5.The Twitter accounts of two prominent sports publications, Deadspin and SBNation, wereshut down over sharing NFL-owned content via GIF and Vine. Drew Olanoff reported that it was indeed the NFL who reported these accounts.6.Theranos, a consumer healthcare techstartup worth $9 billion,denied claims made in a scathing Wall Street Journal reportthatthe company was struggling with results of its blood-test technology; that some results of tests were off. Later, it has reported that Theranos has dialed back its 240 blood tests to just one. This story is still developing.7.Greg Kumparak test drove the auto-steering Tesla Model S.8.Josh Constine wrote a thought piece on the growing trend of social platforms trying to house publishers content on their platforms, noting that Twitter Moments doesnt even offer outbound links to stories. He wrotethatpublishers are in danger of becoming dumb content in the smart pipes Facebook and Twitter9.Josh Constine covered Facebooks big video push, in which the company is trying to supercharge discovery through friends via a slew of new feature tests including a dedicated Video and shopping feed.10.We learned thatCheckr which runs background checks and vets potential hires by way of an API for the likes of Uberand Instacart is raising a Series B of at least $30 million, at avaluation north of $250 million.11.Chinese hacking teamPangureleased thefirstpublic jailbreak for iOS 9.12.Fixed, theapp that fights parking tickets, wasblocked in San Francisco, Oakland and L.A. after the cities increased the measuresthey were taking to block the companyfrom accessing their parking ticket websites.13.Sarah Buhr and Alex Wilhelm went on a date with Chef Watson, IBMssupercomputer program that aims toprovideweird and wonderful recipes beyond anythinghumans could come up with.