
Zack Rosen is the CEO of Pantheon.Dries Buytaert, thefounder of Drupal, and Matt Mullenweg, the founder of WordPress, recently postedcalls to arms (of sorts) in defense of the open web.I, too, am a believer in the open web  a platform that anyone can hack on powered by standards (http) and great technology (servers, devices, browsers). It delivers on the promise of the Internet: a world in which everyone is connected, and you can command as much attention as your content deserves (no matter your budget or connections).But I agree with them that it is threatened by dominant technology companies such as Facebook, Google and Apple who have an economic interest in creating their own walled gardens of Internet content that they control and monetize.In Facebooks walled garden there is only Facebook content posted by your Facebook friends, so why venture anywhere else? Evan Williams (founder of Blogger, Twitter and Medium) has gone so far asto say that in the future, individual websites wont matter. In the future Internet, he believesthere will only be large, closed Internet-company-controlled walled gardens. This is the raison detre of his new company Medium, a curated walled garden for content.The advantage of services like Facebook and Medium is that they provide a great experience for users over the messy Wild West of the open web. The disadvantage is their content algorithms control what is distributed, and publishers are limited to the services they choose to build. Its a trade-off of ease of use and utility over freedom and creativity. Shouldnt there be a way to have both?There absolutely is, but it will take a lot of effort, time and money  billions of dollars  to build. Unlike Dries, I dont think this is a problem of regulation. Its economics. Until the open web industry can muster a level of investment in our technology appropriate for our importance, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to our competitor industries  and a source of frustration for our customers and users.But in the absence of this, the open web remains earths most powerful communication tool. More money is invested in websites ($190 billion) than all of digital advertising ($154 billion). But Facebook, Medium and other closed-distribution platforms would prefer to command that attention and budget.The better Facebook is relative to open web, the more time is spent on Facebook instead of the web, and the more their business gains at the expense of other destinations on the Internet. I like Facebook as much as anyone else, but I think its important for the open web to thrive, as well.For the open web to survive, website owners will need to be able to create more and more compelling experiences that can compete with the experiences walled gardens can provide. But the truth is, the open web is not keeping up with the wider technology industry. In fact, its falling further and further behind.Here is a small example:Here in San Francisco for some amazing reason you get decent LTE coverage onBART (thesubway). More than once Ive been on the trainreading Twitter andhave had the experience of clicking the link and having 1) the website be down spewing 503s or 2) the website be so horribly unoptimized for mobile that the content was impossible to read.Slow down and think about this for a second:You can get Internet on a subway! And its fast too!Twitter didnt exist until 2006, and smartphones didnt exist until 2007.Phone speed, battery life and Internet bandwidth gets continually better every year.And the weakest link in the entire stack of technology is the BROKEN website at the other end. A technology that has been around since 1989. Hey, open web friends! Weve been doing this for 27 years. How is it that we are increasingly becoming the weakest link in the entire Internet technology stack?Heres the problem with the open web  economics:Internet: $2.4 trillion global industry; market leader, AT&T (revenue $147 billion/240,000 employees)Smartphones: $272 billion industry; market leader, Apple (revenue $233 billion/115,000 employees)Social platforms: $24 billion industry; market leader, Facebook (revenue $18 billion/12,600 employees)Open web technology companies include Automattic, Acquia, WPEngine and Pantheon (my company). Combined, our yearly revenues are < $300 million (0.5 percent of Googles). Add in companies like Wix, Weebly, SquareSpace and GoDaddy and you are still just scratching the surface in terms of market share.No one web company has achieved critical mass (yet), by which I mean billions in revenue and the ability to employ thousands of engineers who can invest in building truly great, scaled technology products and platforms.In the absence of large, direct investment in open web products, there is no way we should expect our industry (the open web) to keep pace with the walled-garden products and services built by Facebook or device makers like Apple. In thearms race of technologies and consumer attention, the platform companies have mechanized weaponry and the open web is still armed with bow and arrow.The open web has gotten a huge boost from the rise of open-source content management systems, Drupal and WP specifically. Combined, 65 percent of all CMS websites use these platforms, double what it was five years ago. That number is quickly rising to 80 percent.How did they do this? These open-source ecosystems are some of the largest in the world, right up there with Linux.The rise of the open-source CMS systems (Drupal, WP) has been the single biggest technology contribution to the open web. Huge credit goes to Dries Buytaert and Matt Mullenweg; without their leadership and the communities they spawned, the open web would be much worse off.But here is the difference between Drupal/WordPress and Linux:Eighty percentof Linux contributors (9,000 developers) are paid contributors. Intel, Samsung, IBM, Google and more than1,000 companies pay for these engineers. These companies are sponsoring billions of dollars worth of technology investment into Linux. Why? Because >$1 trillion of market cap relies on this core technology. Google, IBM and RedHats businesses could not exist in their present form without Linux, so its in their economic interest to invest in the technology.How many paid contributors to WordPress and Drupal are there? Maybe a few dozen. WordPress and Drupal lack the corporate sponsors of Linux because our open web companies have yet to get to critical mass.Thats the difference between Linux and the open web.I believe the open web is too important, too vital and too large of an industry (at $190 billion its bigger than digital advertising) to wither on the vine. Its not going away.But it does need to get better. And not a little better a LOT better.The same expectations you have for modern software (think Gmail, Twitter, Slack) should apply to your companys website. It should be intuitive to use and update, and should be fast, stable and scalable.Creatives, website designers and developers should all have an amazingly powerful set of tools that automateALLthe plumbing and grunt work so they can focus their precious time on creating amazing fast, responsive, web experiences.To get there will require billions (not millions) of dollars of technology investment, combined with the limitless talents and vibrancy of the amazing open source web ecosystem.