Apple continued at a good clip in iPhone 6 and 6s sales during its fourth fiscal quarter 2015, hitting 48 million units sold. Thats up from 47.5 million in Q3 and a year-over-year increase from Q4 2014 at about 39 million units sold, though slightly down from analysts expectations at 48.5 million.Notethis is the first quarter the new iPhone 6s has been on sale, though only for a number of weeks. The iPhone is typically Apples biggest revenue driver and, despite only a few weeks after the iPhone 6s in-store availability, this quarter did not disappoint. Approximately$32.2 billion of Apples earnings this quarter came from iPhone sales.This is also the second quarter weve had a breakout of iPad sales, which did not do as well as Apples more popular mobile product, the iPhone. iPad units sold went down from approximately 11 million to 10 million from Q3 to Q4 2015. Sales of Apples popular notebook slipped even further from reported year-over-year sales, going from just over 12 million units in Q4 2014 to 10 million Q4 2015. Interesting to note the roaring and continued success of iPhones as they take on bigger and various shapes contrasted to the slump in iPad purchases over the last year.Mac units are also up in sales this quarter at 5.7 million units sold, compared to 5.5 million units in Q4 2014. According to CEO Tim Cook, thats an all-time record for the Mac.Apple Pay, Apples iPhone payment companion, is also seeing double-digit growth on a month-over-month basis, according to CEO Tim Cook. The Apple CEO also announced the company is partnering with American Express to bring Apple Pay to eligible customers in key global markets. We could see a boost in global usage and ability to pay with our phones overseas, if this takes off.Speaking of overseas, China has been on everyones thoughts, especially at Apple. China and other places such as India are some of the fastest adopters of mobile in the world, which bodes well for new iPhone sales.We see an enormous change in China over the next several years, said Cook, who recently visited the country. Were reasonably well positioned.Apple now has 25 stores in China and expects to reach 40 stores by the middle of next year, according to Cook.