
Tom Gonser is the chief strategy officer of DocuSign.Just fiveyearsago the world was a very different place. In 2010, the iPad had just made its debut, Kickstarter was introducing a new form of venture capitalism that would change the face of fundraising and Square was letting vendors of any size accept payment with a swipe of a card on a mobile device. And we havent looked back.The next fiveyearswillno doubt unleash products and services that we have yet to imagine. But as we progress, whatwillwe leave behind? Here are a handful ofthingswe use today that likely will either be gone completelyor on their last breath, disrupted by new innovations, technology and methods.Today, Square lets any business accept debit or credit cards. Venmo lets you split your dinner bill with a friend through a money transfer via text message. Soon, youwillhave all your banking done through any mobile device even your vehicle. Across the U.S., check use fell 57 percent from 2000 to 2012, according to the Federal Reserve.Ninety-four percent of consumers under 35-years-old bank online, and more than one-fifth of them have never written a physical check to pay a bill, according to First Datas report,The Unbanked Generation.In Europe, if you try to write a check, they look at you as if you are crazy. Rent may be the last great bastion of using checks, but even that is well on the decline as property managers switch to electronic payments,and mobile payments become so easy.One more thing:In the more distant future, therewillbe no cash. No cash means no cash machines bye, bye ATMs.By 2020, 70 percent of the worldwillbe using a smartphone, according toEricssons mobility report. Mobile data networkswillcover 90 percent of the population. With cloud services like Apple, Box, Dropbox, Google and Microsoft offering near-unlimited storage at near-free prices, therell be little need for storage devices taking up room in your pocket. Not to mention the increase in standard storage for mobile devices in the next fiveyears.Event organizers around the worldwillneed to come up with new swag to reward attendees at their conferences as USBswillbe a token of the analog past.This is a hard one because passwords are used so broadly today. The average person is said to have19 passwords and nearly half admit to using unsafe, weak passwords. But even if youre adamant about using only strong passwords guess what those can becracked too.Biometrics are already becoming mainstream, especially on mobile devices, which are now the main access point for many of our online activities. Fingerprints, voice and facial recognition willreplace your first dogs name and your wedding anniversary as the way you access your secure accounts. Thesewillhave their own security risks, but the character passwordwillbe no more.Similarly, soon youwillnot have physical keys to lose. Your keywillbe any of the smart devices you carry, whichwillbe linked to you biometrically so that only you can operate them.No more scrambling around your house tossing the cushions of your couch in the air looking for the elusive remote control (or 10 of them, depending on the complexity of your in-home audio and video setup).The research firm Strategy Analyticsforecaststhat emerging categories in the Internet of Things (IoT), smart home and wearableswillconnect an additional 17.6 billion devices by 2020. Even today, devices such as the Amazon Echo are taking voice search and commands to a new level. With so many new devices connected to the Internet by 2020, building separate hardware for a remote controlwilljust no longer make any sense.Paper-based signatures and paper-based processing physically needing to print, fax, scan or overnight documents for reviews, approvals, decisions and/or signatures to complete a transaction are fast-becoming archaic in todays digital world. In the future, wewillrely on cloud agreements to actively manage any transaction.Cloud agreementswillbe: actively connected to the identities of the involved parties (forever), able to mete out payments as contract objectives are met and actively contact actors in the transaction when the time is right.Real estate, financial services, insurance, high-tech and healthcare companies evenbudget-strapped governments are adopting cloud-computing models to increase efficiency, reduce costs and drive a better end-user experience. Soon, contract managementwillnever be the same.When youre making a list of resolutions for the New Year, consider getting a head start on cleaning out the old-tech clutter you have in your life to make way for a digital New Year. Sure, you have some time. But with all of the exciting technology disruptions taking place right now, why wait?