500 Startups is continuing its efforts to tap on Asias fast-growing startup scene after the U.S.-headquartered VC firmannounceda $10 million fund inVietnam.The effort isled byBinh Tran and Eddie Thai, two partners500 Startups hiredlast year, and it is its first in Vietnam and latest in a seriesof country-led initiatives. In Asia over the past year, 500 Startups has introduced fundsin Japan ($30 million), Korea ($15 million), India ($25 million) and Thailand ($12 million), and doubled the size of its kittyfor Southeast Asia to $20 million.Vietnam is viewed as promising for a number of reasons.The country has a90 million population, overhalf of whom are aged under 30, andis a mobile-first market with huge potential for technology and internet businesses. To date, politics and culture are among the factors that have prevented international VCs setting up shop in the country in droves, but Thai hopes to push things forward.The timing is right, he told TechCrunch in an interview. Ten years ago when VCs first came here there were around four million internet users, now there are around 40 million. Therereally is potential to grow connectivity, income and spending.Entrepreneurshipand startups have shown signs of promisein Vietnam for some time, as a New York Times article last year chronicled, but Thai believesthis is just the start.We really want to bring this to the next level, [and make the countrys startup scene] more efficient, professional and founder friendly  and ultimately build companies that can exit, he said.The $10 million fund isnt ready yet  a first close is likely this monthwith a final close expected in June  but already Vietnam-based Thai and former Klout CTO Tran, whois located in Silicon Valley for deal flow and cross-border opportunities, have dipped into the money. Thus far, 500 Startups has invested in at least six companies with connections toVietnam, be that overseas with Vietnamese founders or teams on the ground in the country.500 Startups is known for its prolific investment volume it has put money intomore than 1,500 companies worldwide  and that approach will continue in Vietnam. The fundis expected to yield100-150 investments that will vary from $100,000 to $250,000 in check size. As is the case with its other micro-funds, thatllpredominantly cover early-stage rounds which aresharedwith co-investors.Beyond spending money, the 500 Startups Vietnam team wants todevelop the local ecosystem by educating investors, founders and others players. 500 Startups well known for its global accelerator program and, while theres no planto set anything similar up locally, but Thai said they willsupport those building early-stageprograms. Beyond helpingstartupsapply forthe 500Startups accelerator program in Silicon Valley, he said the Vietnam partners may also launch a version of Distro Dojo,a post-funding growth program that the firm has run worldwide.But the focus isnt just onigniting the startup sparkat home, Thai wants to connect the dots globally. Hesaid theres a strong diaspora of tech talent overseas that may want to return/or be involved at home, while others are looking in, too.[The funds LPs include] overseas diaspora whounderstand Vietnam, want to do angel and seed investing, and see this as away to get returns and help build the country. Overseascompanies want to expand [because they] find domestic growth harder  in Japan and Korea, for example. They wantaccess [to Vietnam] but dont know the way, he explained.