Just days after the third fund of 500 Startups was officially closed with $85 million, the five-year-old Mountain View-based firm has kicked things into high(er) gear, officiallysetting out to raise its fourth fund with a target of $200 million. In whats perhapsa more meaningful shift, the outfit ispreparing to raise a growth fund for the first time, too.Its a lot for 500 Startups already a hyper-global investing juggernaut  to take on right now.In addition to the threemain funds that 500 Startups has now raised  predecessors to the firms newest $85 million fund include a $29 million debut fund and a second fund that closed with $44 million 500 Startups also has a $3 million fund focused on Latin America; a $10 million fund focused on Southeast Asia; a Thailand-focused fund thats still fundraising and has targeted $10 million; a Korea fund that has similarly targeted $10 million; and, newly, a Japan-focused fund thats looking to raise $30 million. Oh, and lest we forget, its also raising a $10 million fund that its calling its Mobile Collective vehicle.Of course, firmcofounder Dave McClure has never been one to shy from a challenge.Indeed, he called us from aworking vacation in Tokyo over the weekend to share more.TC: Youre about tobegin officially raising afourth global fund. Other than its size,how might this new fund differ from your earlier funds?DM: Its the same strategy.I hateto be boring, but we like what were doing. A lot of folks are chasing different sexy things like drones and virtual realityand the Internet of Things,and those are all greatandwell do a bit of each of them, but e-commerce, marketplaces and SaaS is our bread and butter, and we dont see those [sectors] dying down any time soon. Globally, in fact, theyre growing.Regarding other details,half the capital will be used for initial investments, with the rest for follow on investments. And thisfund will have a slightly longer time horizon. Weve invested each of our main funds over the course of two years; we plan to invest this over three years.TC: Youre already planning to reserve half a $200 million fund for follow-on investments, assuming you raise it. Why also start plotting a growth fund?DM: We have a lotof companies doing well from ourtwo first funds, and there are lots of follow-on investmentsthat weve chosen not to make because they wereoutside our budget. We consider those missed opportunities. We think 5 to 7 percent of our investments will get to Series C rounds, or $100 million-plus in value, and we want [a bigger share] of those companies.TC: Y Combinator is raising a growth fund and said recently that it plans to invest its pro rata in every deal of a certain size led by other institutional investors in order to minimize any signaling issues. Y Combinator and 500 Startups compete to some degree. Will you take a similar approach?DM: I dontknow that I agree with that philosophy. Were not worried that its a signaling issue [to participate in some companies later rounds] becausethere are much larger investors than us making decisions. If our opinion matters more than a companys business fundamentals, thats a problem.Were in the business to make money; were not inthe business of [providing follow-on] funding [to] every company in our portfolio. There will be situations where we think a valuation isnt on target or where we think we have enough ownership already, and werecomfortable makingour own decisions. Wedont have to blindly lead other investors.