So, youre in charge of one of Asias (nay, the worlds) top viral/comedycommunities. The new year is here. Whats your focus for 2015? How about game publishing?Thats not the most obvious answer, but it is a newexperiment that 9GAG, the popular online forum run out of Hong Kong, is embarking on. The goal is to provide a richerexperience for readers using differentkinds of media.9GAG claims 80 million unique users visit its pageseachmonth. The company has taken aninteresting and very different path to many other online publishing companies. Founded in 2008, itpassed through500 Startups accelerator in 2011, andY-Combinator in 2012,going on toraise $2.8 million from investors.Itmade its name as a place to find amusing images, and now it is diversifying its business to increase engagement and value for users, whileenabling some of Asias hidden gems to shine through its platform at the same time.Thats the message from CEO and co-founder Ray Chan, who recently spoke to TechCrunch following the launch of Redhead Redemption, 9GAGs first mobile game. Initially available on Android (an iOS version is due soon), it is a freemium title developed byIndonesia-based Touchten.Earlytraction has been impressive, and initialpromotion efforts generated 100,000 downloads within two days of its launch on Christmas Eve. Current Google Play store metrics show it has less than half a million downloads thus far, and an impressive 4.6 rating from over 60,000 reviewers.That engagement came without any ad spend, just organic traffic. 9gag.com has a banner at the top of its site that links to the Google Play store page (we are now noticing some banners too), andthe game was also shared via itswell-followedsocial media accounts.As a community-driven site, Chan and the 9GAG team want to serve itsusers by surfacing the kind of content that theyll enjoy and engage with. Beyond images and comedy skits, that could include different kinds of media too.Chan said the team has always been keen on games, but didnt take the leap yet because we didnt know anything about making them.We play games, our users play game, but making them is another story, he added.When Chanmet Touchten founder and CEOAnton Soeharyo at an industry event in Singapore in Octoberlast year, the duo got talking about their respective startups. The idea of collaborating was floated and, within two months, 9GAG published its first game.Its an experiment for us, Chan explained.As a community, we always want to create value for our users. On the other hand we always have to make money, and wealways think it is better to get money from the users directly if possible.Chan declined to go into the specifics of the partnership, but he did confirm that revenue generated from the title  via in-app purchases willbe split between both startups.He believes that todays app crunch and general consumer reluctance to downloads lots of apps make a curated and trusted pick of appsvaluable to all parties. Though this is just 9GAGs first game, Chan claimedthe sites audience trusts it implicitly to serve up apps and games that are top quality.Beyond that, there is also a vast opportunity for game studios and developers to stand outin crowded app stores.There are tonnes of gaming companies in Asia, many build pretty good games but the cost perinstall gets high due to competition. That makes it harder for small studios. We think it would be interesting if we could work with studios, and help them to publish. If we can curate good games then its win-win-win forthem, us and our users, Chan said.Salaryman Dash is another of Touchtens existing gamesIn this specific case, Chan is a big fan of Touchten which he saiddoesnt getthe exposure that they deserve for many of their games.Beyond just the potential to drive downloads and revenue from games, Chan said9GAG can showcase companies, helping them build areputation in their own right and enabling them to get valuable feedback from the 9GAG community.Touchten has notched over 10 million downloads for the20 games it has published to date.Soeharyo told TechCrunch that he hoped its partnership with 9GAG could raisethe five-year-old startups profile and putIndonesia on the mapas a country that also produces games.Stressing that the strategy is still experimental at this point, Chan said 9GAG would seek out small game studios, 10-20 person operations who canbe reputable partners, if and when it extends gaming push.The likes of Reddit and Digg arent likely to venture into game publishing anytime soon, but that isnt the only strategy that 9GAG differs on. Its approach to social media is centeredon building its brand, not generating traffic, according to Chan.9GAG has nearly 23 million fans on its Facebook Pageand over 3.7 million Twitter followers, butInstagram is a particular success story.There it has over 9.4 million followers, which ranks it inside the top fivebrands usingthe service, ahead of H&M, NBA, Adidas and many other household names.No doubt the photo-centric nature of 9GAGs content helps it, but thats still an incredible achievement. Chan said the company doesnt really care if posts drive traffic or not, and thats why it focuses on the actual content that it posts to social sites rather than calls to action, click bait and other factors.Thats a pretty fascinating approach, and watching how its content is shared and interacted with on social media has also helped 9GAG introducenew verticals. 8fact was launched for shareable facts, as the name suggests, while 8crap similarly does exactly what youd expect.Those two dont have their dedicatedsitesthough, they exist on social media and app form only. Its an experimental approach that might one day see them given their own URLs or domains.Beyond the social media followings and vast website traffic numbers, 9GAG also has animpressive mobile app readership. Mobile represents a fairly regular 30 percent of all visits, but 9GAGs dedicated mobile apps drive three million daily active users. That figure jumps to 5-6 million for monthly users, and is another impressivefeat from this Asia-based publisher which is quietly plugging away.As for other plans in 2015, Chan is keen to dabble in other media experiments that can benefitthe 9GAG community. Hes also looking tolocalize more of the humor on its pages for the varying different nationalities that visit. (The U.S. drives most visitors, while Germany  a country often teased for a lack ofsense of humor  ranks a surprise second.)But the chatty Chan is less interested in talking about the financials of 9GAGs business  including profit, loss and revenue  such is his focus on the consumer side of its work.The startuplast raised funding in July 2012, taking in $2.8 million, and hesaid its financial situation is goodand there are no imminent plans to raise again. With less than 30 staff on its books and an office in Asia, he added that 9GAGstays lean, which helps its moneygo further.