Editors Note:Len Epp does customer development for Dashcube and previously worked as an analyst for Macquarie Group.One of thethingsI find most surprising about discussions concerning the advent of automated vehicles is that, besides predictable worries about the disappearance of jobs that currently require human drivers,thereis a serious, and boring, lack of imagination. Most people seem to think the worldwillbe the same as it is now, except that ourcarswillbe driving us around.In this scenario, the main difference between now and then is that well have more spare time to look at screens, since well just be sittingthere, instead of focusing on theroadand giving the finger to people who slow-turn left whentheres only a short time to catch the green arrow.The truth is quite the opposite  and a hard truth it is  for those invested deeply in the status quo. For one, itwillmean an end to personal car ownership, except in rare circumstances. From the users end ofthings, this means youwilljust summon a car with your phone, and itwilltake you where youre going. Since you wont own the car, you wont care what it looks like or whats under the hood, which means thatcarswillbecome a lot more uniform in design, as well as cheaper, safer and far cleaner and more efficient. Therewillbe no more corner gas stations and no more main street mechanics shops or oil change outfits, since everythingwillbe managed, as it were, at a bulk rather than an individual level of service delivery.From the owners end ofthings, fleets ofcarswillbe owned by companies. This doesnt just mean automated Uber. To pick just one example, companies like Walmartwillalmost certainly let their robot carsdrive you to and from their stores for free, aswilltheir competitors. Assuming huge efficiency gains are met, its even possible that municipalitieswillget in the game, andcarswilleventually be a part of public transportation. And thats just the start.But heres the thing no one seems to be talking about: Whencarsandtrucksare all automated and talking to each other to coordinate their movements, itwillopen up the possibility formanynew types of moving robots and services to emerge, including vehicles that have no space for humans whatsoever. In the following sections Ill set out just a few of the possibilities.In the automated vehiclefuture, mobile retail wont mean buyingthingsfrom your phone: itwillmean buyingthingsfrom stores on wheels. Just to pick a familiar starting point, imagine that vending machines could zoom around on the roads on their own. An entire industrywillemerge based on roving algorithms that let vending machines for specific products be in the right place at the right time to make a sale.Heading to the park on an especially hot day?Therewillbe robotsthereroving around selling cold drinks. Is it unexpectedly cold? While youre waiting at the (driverless) bus stop, therewillbe a hot chocolate vehicle rightthereready for you. Ice creamtruckswillbe back, too, of course, roving the neighborhoods, with nothing but treats inside.Post offices may not have much of afuture, at least as services distinct from the general industry of getting ofthingsfrom A to B, but again its easier to explain a major change when you start from something familiar, so here goes.Oncecarsaredriverless,therewill be robot vehicles delivering your mail and other packages right to your door when you summon them. Packages (and even letters, until governments finally figure out how to go paperless)willbe distributed to local warehouses and loaded up ontotrucksthatwillroam or rest in your neighborhood until you call them to say youre ready for delivery. Then, the vehiclewilljust roll up to your door, ping you to let you know itsthere, and have your package ready for you. They might even deposit them on your doorstep in some kind of generic local shipping container.Garbage and recycling vehicles (again, with no humans inside)willalso roam around, coming when you need them, which means no more (or far less) garbage sitting in bags or bins on the streets. Sorry, raccoons.Presumably, especially where crowds are gathered,therewillalso be health care robots whizzing about, ready with their cameras, first aid kits, advice, and direct lines to emergency services if anything unfortunate happens.Therewillbe robots selling tickets to concerts and sports games competing right outside the venue with scalpers  theremay even be robot scalpersthere, too. Since vehicles might get a lot wider as parking on the street completely disappears, we might even see the design of robot gyms or yoga studios that drive right up to your door and let you go inside and work out, while the gym roams around picking other members up and dropping them off when theyre done. (Okay, this example is both a little outthere, and involves putting people inside the vehicles, but the point is that not all vehicleswillexist for the purpose of transporting people around, but rather providing another type of service.)This basic themewillextend to all sorts of other services. Even traffic cones and street signs might end up being able to move around, controlled centrally or even following algorithms of their own.Speaking of municipal services, the robot cops we first encounterwillnot be shaped or in any way intended to move and manipulatethingslike humans do. Rather, theywillbe more like R2D2: multipurpose, smart tools on wheels. This may strike you as a bad thing, but anyone who ever has ever been muggedwillbe very happy to see a little robocop come speeding around the corner, lights blaring and camera flashing. Still, we all need to get ready for a whole new privacy debate, as roving cops patrol our streets recording video, scanning for trouble, and faces, cheaply, safely, but also ubiquitously.Long before Elon Musk comes to terms with the fact that the hyperloopis a good system for transporting goods, but a terrible system for transporting people, automated vehicles purpose-built for transporting goodswillbe trucking safely along the existingroadand highway infrastructure we have already built, with no need for coffee or truck stops.There may be big truck-likethingsthat travel in convoys, buttherewillalso be transportation vehicles that function essentially like interchangeable, road-based shipping containers, with no dedicated space for a person. Indeed, someone might even develop something like container skates that you just roll a container onto as soon as it comes off a cargo ship, or out of a factory, helping the thing zoom along roads to its programmed destination.Thedriverlessfuturewilltransform both the literal landscape and the startup landscape. Just like the iPhone created a whole new ecosystem for startups with the App Store, when thethingson our roads can be automated, the streetwillrepresent an entirely new platform for the delivery of goods and services. Of course this changewillbe hard. So was the change to driving horseless carriages in the first place. But itwillalso bring enormous opportunities on a number of levels.Lets just hope thisdriverlessfuturecan also ameliorate some of the catastrophic damage weve done to ourselves as a species, and our planet more broadly, for the sake of the car  damage so ubiquitous, we treat roads like natural features, instead of the [deliberate bitumen spills they really are.