
Zaf Coelho is the project director at Industry Platform.We spent a large part of the year in the cities of Manila, Bangkok, Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur speaking to local enterprises about this (too) broad and (too) overused term: theInternet of Things (IoT).We discovered very quickly that, although IoT seems to be very much overly/wrongly used in the English-speaking world, there really isnt a direct local translation in these fourlocales. For local enterprises in these countries, they seeIoTas an extension of Enterprise IT, without having a definition/term for it.As we near the end of2015,letslook back at the industries in the region where the conversations involvingIoTprojects are more pertinent.This industrial segment was not something we focused on in2015,but as we worked with local telcos and government agencies to invite enterprises to attend our events, we found the interest from the local manufacturing firms to be overwhelming.We should have known. In this part of the world, countries such as Thailand, Vietnamand Indonesia are increasingly important global players in the space. Granted, these countries are chosen because of low labor costs, but locally run vendors and OEMs are very proactive when it comes to technology implementation within their factories (technology implementation is a lot more attractive when youre experiencing double-digit growths versus no-/low-growth environments). Plus, legacy IT systems/culture are a smaller problem in young, growing firms.Among others, we had the opportunity to speak to several representatives from one of the worlds largest cigarette manufacturer. The local entity is owned by an international parent, but because they produce a slightly different product (close to 90 percent of locals in Indonesia smokekretek), they couldnt implement manufacturing processes wholesale from their parent company. Another clich with much truism:Think Globally, Act Locally.Manufacturing and industrial automation will be a big theme in 2016, especially in Thailand and Indonesia. Macroeconomic conditions (weaker local currencies, young workforces, etc.) also have made these locales more attractive to international companies looking to set up manufacturing facilities and technology, when used properly, can overcome (some) productivity inefficiencies usually associated with emerging countries.In the more developed countries, the aging demographics make healthcare a natural topic of discussion. Remote monitoring/diagnostics is important not only in elderly care, but for archipelagos like Indonesia and Philippines. We found that in this part of the world, implementation of such systems are being driven largely bygovernment agencies and young startups.Some notable implementations in the region: In Singapore, applications likeHealthcare ATMs have been rolled out and in Philippines, local startupMedifiimplemented a pilot program earlier this year, with plans of expansion to otherSoutheastAsian markets soon.Theres always a buzz during the Healthcare segments ofAsiaIoTBusiness Platform, simply because its something to which all of us relate.I am reminded of a conversation I had with the owner of a logistics company in Manila who was a native English speaker but wasnt familiar with the term IoT. But talk about telemetry, control software and sensors that track everything from his vehicle locations to petrol levels, and hes in his element. His company was growing very quickly, and he was in the process of modernizing its systems to:If those first twodont constitute the classic definition ofIoT, I dont know what does!In countries like Indonesia and Philippines, the distribution, transportation, logistics and freight segment have employed M2M technology for years. On the other hand, because of the low cost of labor, many companies still use manual methods to achieve the same goals: Instead of sensors, some Indonesian freight companies send spies to follow the drivers of their trucks to ensure that they dont siphon off petrol in their vehicles to be resold!Its a given thatIoTwill change business landscapes globally over the next five years, but its interesting to note that, because of the uniquely local problems that enterprises face in this part of the world, the companies that are best positioned to take advantage are those with a big local presence:There are other developments within the B2B2C space (of course;SoutheastAsiahas more than 600 million consumers!)  but that warrants a discussion of its own.