Editors note: Eric Kim is co-founder and CEO of RushOrder, an L.A.-based mobile food ordering startup.To say that recent capital inflows in thefood-orderingspace have been growing rapidly wouldnt be doing the current funding environment justice. In fact, it might even be considered a gross injustice akin to calling Mark Zuckerberg a mere website developer.While just $46 million and $25 million were invested infoodorderingcompanies in 2013 and 2012, respectively, a staggering $600 million was invested in 2014. And so far this year, weve had approximately $360 million invested to date, which when annualized, comes out to approximately $1.2 billion1.Thattype of growth is not something you see too often.2012 to 2015E Capital Inflows toFoodOrderingSpaceSo, whats driving investors to throw such large sums of money into this area hand over fist? Well, in light of how much coverage companies in this sector have been getting in the media lately, the answer may not be as clear and obvious due to all the noise out there.To the publics detriment, the continuous barrage of headlines related to funding, M&A, etc. has swayed popular opinion such that ones initial inclination is to assume that the competitive landscape iscrowded, and that the market itself is accordinglysaturated.Now, while the arena has indeed become highly competitive, the latter point on market saturation couldnt be further from the truth. In fact, it is theunder-penetrationof this market that presents a massive opportunity commensurate with the level of risk being assumed by investors today.Just how big is this opportunity? Thechart below puts things in perspective:$70 billion takeout and delivery marketThe first thing to note is that the takeout and delivery market is itself a whopping $70 billion market. More importantly, of that $70 billion, only about $9 billion (roughly 13 percent) isonline2.Thus, in a world where almost everything is done either on the computer or through mobile apps, approximately 9 out of 10 individuals are still using the traditional method of picking up the phone to call in takeout and delivery orders.Furthermore, back in February, Morgan Stanley/AlphaWise did some survey work thatshowed surprisingly low awareness levels among consumers ofGrubHub the largest and most recognized player in the space  and its services3.The results showed that approximately 55 percent of consumers in New York (their core market) had limited awareness of the GrubHub (and Seamless) service, and that percentage rises to 80 percent in markets outside of New York. Keep in mind that GrubHub has been around since 2004 (pre-Facebook). What this means is that the vast majority of consumers arent even aware that these typesof services even exist.If you look to large chains like Dominos and Papa Johns today, theironlinepenetration rate is roughly 45-50 percent2. Seeing the exponential growth in order volumes reported by competitors, small and large, in thefoodorderingspace, its clear that achieving similar penetration rates is not really a matter ofif, but ofwhen.We can also look to comparable metrics outside the U.S. for added insight.For example, the UKs GrubHub equivalent,JustEat, has a market penetration rate of approximately 25 percent. And in South Korea, a country well-known for having a strong delivery ecosystem,Baedal Minjok, which is South Koreas GrubHub equivalent, has a 75 percent market penetration rate2. The U.S., at a meager 13 percent, is only in the beginning stages of its own broad migration toonline/mobileordering.What all this points to is some serious room for growth. That being said, we also need to consider how this growth stacks up against the direction in which relevant market dynamics are trending in the U.S. For this, have a look at the chart below:Online/Mobile Ordering vs. Offline Ordering ( Based on data gathered from Cowen and Company Research Report.)The direction were heading in is pretty clear, and industry experts tend to agree thatonlineorders are expected to surpass offline orders sometime within the next decade. The key takeaway is that were in the very early stages of a broad,secularshifttoonline/mobileordering. And it is this paradigmshiftin the industry that is the driving force behind all the dollars being thrown into the space as investors place their bets on which horse ultimately turns into that proverbial sought-afterunicorn.