Box reported earnings today for the first time as a public company. In the wake of the news, the companys shares dropped sharply, and are currently down in after-hours trading down a sharp 13.10 percent.So did Box have a bad quarter? Not in the way that was originally reported by the media, your humble servant included.Boxs profitability is currently vetted on a non-GAAP basis, which is a fancy way of saying that investors are applying a slightly looser set of financial rules for the newly public company. Among quickly growing technology firms, non-GAAP, or adjusted profit is a standard metric. It allows firms to discount certain non-cash costs to provide an alternative look into the performance of their business.Today, Box reported adjusted profit of -$1.65 per share. While that might seem steep, the figure is calculated using a constrained share count, due to the companys recent IPO. So the per-share loss is higher than it might be, compared to a more dilutive share count for Box, keeping the companys net loss in place.This is where things went off the rails: Some analysts, whose earnings forecasts were counted in calculating the markets consensus, did not use the smaller share pool to calculate earnings per share. So, the consensus kicked out an adjusted profit guess of -$1.17. Box lost more than that.That awkward moment when the calculation for your consensus EPS uses the wrong share count (for your first earnings call). #funtimes Aaron Levie (@levie) March 11, 2015The company wasnt enthused. On its earnings call, Box CEO Aaron Levie noted that, using a proper share count, estimates for Boxs recent-quarter adjusted profit came to -$1.99.What that means is that Box actuallybeat on adjusted profit. And given that Box also beat expectations on revenue, the company had a functional quarter.The companys shares were down north of 16 percent during after-hours trading, having now recovered slightly from session lows. Why are investors acting so negatively when Box actually beat profit and revenue expectations?From reading the companys financial documents, listening to its earnings call, and chatting with its CEO after the report, a few things stand out as possibilities:Box will have an easier time of it when it can point to shrinking non-GAAP and GAAP losses in raw-dollar terms. For now, its improving ratios are useful, if incomplete, pictures of how the companys financials operate.Every newly public company manages to chop when it kicks itself into the marketplace. If Box can put up a strong quarter in three months, the earnings per share kerfuffle will shrink into memory. For today, however, Box had a nasty bit of bad luck that clouded a quarter that might have otherwise enjoyed a slightly warmer reception.