Google unveiled a new open source initiative today that its calling the Accelerated Mobile Pages Project.The name kind of spells out the concept: The AMP Project is supposed to result in web pages, particularly news articles, that load more quickly. To achieve this, AMP publishers will follow a technical specification for faster pages,and there will be an option to serve the articles from Googles cache.Re/code had previously reported(correctly) that Google was working with Twitter on an open source initiative for faster-loading mobile articles. The report suggestedthat this would be a competitor to Facebooks Instant Articles and other news distribution formsp, but when Googles head of news Richard Gingras was asked about Facebook today, he said the project is about making sure the world wide web is not the world wide wait  thats where were focused.Earlier in the presentation, however, David Besbris, Googles vice president of engineering for search, acknowledged that nowadays, when users are reading web pages, its often in the context of mobile applications. Thats probably not the best situation for Google, whod prefer that you load those pages in the browser, after you find them through search.One reason thats happened, Gingras said, is that many web pages are not fully satisfying users expectations  they load too slowly. AMP-optimized pages, on the other hand, should load instantly.Anything less than instant simply shows a degradation, a decline in engagement, Gingras said.So to make articles loadinstantly, do publishers just strip out all the crap that slows down many existing websites? Besbris said theres more to it.Theres an awful lot that is in the model, in the framework, to make sure that its not just a really great web page, but also that itcan be distributed really well  that it can be prerendered, for example, he said.Google said its not fully launching the AMP Project today, so you wont find it on regular Google search. Instead, the companyslaunching a developer preview, with a GitHub repository for the open source code.Partners joining Google at todays event include Vox Media, La Stampa, Buzzfeed, The Washington Post and Twitter.In Twitters case, that means AMP pages will support embedded tweets and Vines. Twitter Product Manager Michael Ducker said that for now, AMP links will open just like any other link in Twitters apps, which wont have anyunique support for AMP. Ducker said the company is really excited about the experience of using these links, but he also said it will iterate, so we could see more integration in the future.While this was a publisher-heavy event, Gingras said that a key objective here is to create a deal-less environment. So the companies on-stage have no relationship  except that we serve a common objective of getting this right.Publishers wontneed a relationship with Google to participate in AMP.In fact, Gingras said that AMP pages wont automatically be ranked above non-optimized pages in Google search  though it should help indirectly, since AMP improves load times.There are many signals we use in generating results, he said. One signal we use is indeed performance. What approach the publisher takes to achieve performance is up to them.You can try out AMP by clicking here from your mobile device. Just do a search for any news-y term, then you should see a carousel of AMP-optimized articles. (Google said the carousel doesnt represent the final form of how these articles will appear in search.) You can also read more on the Google blog.