Accenture, the worldwide consulting company, announced today it was buying Cloud Sherpas, a firm that specializes in helping companies incorporatecloud services like Salesforce.com, Google and ServiceNow into the enterprise.Accenture did not disclose the purchase price.Its not a coincidence that this announcement came as Dreamforce, the enormous Salesforce.com customer conference, is taking place in San Francisco this week. The acquisitionactually has a lot do with Salesforce consulting services.Accenture alreadyhas a team of more than 2700 consultants devoted to helping with Salesforce integration. They will be adding 500 additional Salesforce experts with the Cloud Sherpas deal.The context is Accenture has been driving a cloud first agenda in response to clients focusing on the cloud increasingly as a platformto fuel transformation, Saideep Raj, global managing director at Accenture told TechCrunch. The deal certainly helps expand the Salesforce consulting team, but its more than that, Rajsaid.Cloud Sherpas also brings experience with Google as Googles largest consulting partner and ServiceNow, a company that Accenture is seeing embedded in an increasing number of enterprise processes where service is a key component.Cloud Sherpas, has been around since 2007 and has grown into a worldwide consultancy with over 1100 employees, who will now be part of Accenture.As soon as the deal closes. They will join the newly createdAccenture Cloud First Applications team.If cloud computing is supposed to simplify computing, you may wonder why it would require a consulting team to help implement cloud solutions, and thats a legitimate question. Companies moving to the cloud have lots of issues around digitization and transformation, and working with existing legacy applications alongside cloud applications. There are also issues of more complex custom integrations with a product as sophisticated as Salesforce.Thats where Cloud Sherpas comes into play. While Accenture has also been helping companies make this move to the cloud, even before the acquisition, this gives them a huge team of experienced consultants to expand that consulting unit with one stroke of a pen on a check.Cloud Sherpas formed at a time when the idea of Software as a Service in the enterprise was just beginning to develop as a mainstream concept. While Salesforce.com launchedin 1999, many of todays biggest cloud companies werent even around at that point. It was a company well ahead of the market need in that regard.We saw several things [in 2007] including demand from users of technology, not just as it relates to corporate transactions, but enabling the user experiences aroundmobile technology. Thecloud was uniquely suited to this and we thought it was going to take off and resonate with users, David Northington, Cloud Sherpas CEO said.Over the years, the cloud services have gotten better, and the projects have grown increasingly sophisticated. Northington says that as part of Accenture, that should only accelerate.Today, there isall kinds of complexity in spite ofthe cloud notion of simplicity. If youre integrating enterprise cloud service into an existing enterprise stack, it sometimes takes help. For instance, companies working with Salesforce Wave, the companys analytics platform might need help connecting to the various data sources and create the kinds of custom reports a company might need.But its more than helping implement a single service, its about stitching together a range of services from a single vendor like Salesforce or across services, and thats where this combination could really shine, Raj explained.Cloud Sherpashas raised over $63 million, according to Crunchbase.