The U.K.-based startup founders and investors who penned an open letter backing the Conservatives at the General Election in Mayare now confronted withthe prospect of a Tory governmentlooking for ways to make it harder for businesses to recruitand bring non-EU workers to the U.K.  owing to apolitical pushto reduce net migration.Soon after winning the election thisMay, Prime Minister David Cameron madea speech on migration, outlining the new governments forthcoming Immigration Bill  which he said would include reforms to domestic immigration and labour market rules aimed atreducing the demand for skilled migrant labour.Given that the U.K. is a member of the European Union, the U.K. government cant pull any policy levers to reduce migration from the EU (although Cameron is also hopingto renegotiate migration ruleswith the EU). Which leaves non-EU migration bearing the brunt ofthe governments planned migration squeeze. Startups of course relyonfilling vacancies by bringing skills from abroad  given itmay be the only way to obtainrelevant expertise when youre working in such nascent areas.The Home Office has commissioned theMigration Advisory Committeeto undertaketwo reviews of the U.K.s current tier 2 skilled visa requirements (amain route used by startups to fill vacancies; there is also the tier 1 entrepreneur visafor founders).A review of tier 2visasalary thresholdswas conducted by MAC last month, but has yet to report its findings to the Home Office  although a spokesman for the department told TechCrunchthe government would look to implement any changes it deems necessary based on that review this autumn.The larger scale tier 2 visa review is still taking evidence, with a closing date for submissions of the end of September. The MAC is then likely to report in full by the years end  so further changes to the tier 2 visa, based on the governments assessment of thereview,maybe incoming bythe start of next year.According to the MACs call for evidence, the proposed changes being considered by the government include some potentially radical measures  such as: significantly raising the salary threshold; restricting which job roles are eligible; andremoving the right for dependents of visa holders to be able to work in the U.K.Other measures apparently on the tableincludeputting time-limits on shortage occupations in order to encourage domestic businessesto invest in upskilling; and imposinga skills levy on employers who hire from outside the European Economic Area in order to fund domestic apprenticeships.The pro-startup organisation, Coadec, which advocatesfor policies that support the U.K.s digital economy, kicked off a campaign last weekto raise awareness of the MACs review and feed its submissions call with startups views.Itsasking U.K. startups to complete a surveyasking for their views on the tier 2 visa process and the changes the government is considering. Coadec will then be compilingresponses into its own report to submitto the MAC.The current situation is that the only way non-EU workers can get into the UK really is through the tier 2 visa, because the post-study work visa has been scrapped, the high skilled migrant program has been scrapped, says Coadec executive director Guy Levin tells TechCrunch. You can still come in as an entrepreneur through tier 1 or an investor, or if youre an exceptional talent through tier 1, but tier 2s the main visa route for non-EU workers to come into the country.You have to have a definite job offer, you need to have a degree level qualification, and the role needs to be advertised in the U.K. for 28 days first before it can be offered internationally. There has to be a minimum salary threshold, which is set for new entrants at the 10th percentile and for experienced hires at the 25th percentile so for developers the 25th percentile isabout 31,000. And the company itself needs to go through a process of getting accredited by the Home Office as a sponsor.Levin notes there were some 15,500 people entering the U.K. last year viathe tier 2 general route  so excluding intracompany transfers (a route which does not apply to startups).A further breakdown of that by job typeputsProgrammers and software development professionals as the third most popular occupation under the resident labour test market route (i.e. rather than the shortages occupation route)  with 2,618devs entering the U.K. via that route inthe year ending March 2015.Its not enormous numbers but its significant. And thats just for that particular job title. There may be others under other job titles, like data scientist or product managers,says Levin.The system is fairly sensible, as it stands, he adds. Some bits of it are annoying, like the 28 day test. And thankfully thats waived for shortage occupations Which means you get to fast-track some bits of that And at the start of the year some digital roles were put on that, so thats fantastic and a good win for the sector.But Levin says the worry now for U.K. startups is that the Conservatives political imperativeto find ways to reduce migration to the U.K. could result in policies that are actively harmful to the digital economy  given the options currently being considered by the government would limitfounders ability to hire the skilled talent they need.Levin says Coadecs own migration survey has garnered around 100 responses thus far, with around 40 per cent saying they currently employ people hired via the tier 2 visa route. The majoritydont and several of the respondents said its already too complicated and expensive for us to go through that process, he notes.Speaking to TechCrunch about the governments migration consultation,DueDil CEO and founder Damian Kimmelman, himself an American who relocated to the U.K. to build a data startup (onewhich has attracted some $22 million in funding thus far, according to CrunchBase),arguesthatpopulist politics could pose athreat the U.K.s digital economy if the government ends up scrapping what he sayshas been a relatively liberalmigration policy thus far. Approximately 10 per cent of DueDilsstaff are employed ontier 2 visas.One of the reasons why Im an American building a business in the U.K. is because of the really great ability to hire from anywhere. One of the problems building a company thats scaling and building it in the U.K. is there are a not a lot of people that have scaled businesses, and have the experience of scaling large tech businesses. You can only find that outside of the U.K. All of the large companies that scaled got bought out. And this is an unfortunate fact about the talent pool  but one of the ways the U.K. has effectively been able to solve this is by really having quite liberal immigration policies, he tells TechCrunch.Broadly speaking, Kimmelman saidany of the proposed changes being consulted on by the MAC could have a seriousimpact on DueDilsability to grow.Restricting what roles are eligible seems ludicrous. We are working in a very transformative economy. All of the types of roles are new types of roles every six months Government cant really police that. Thats sort of self defeating, he adds. If you restrict the rights of dependents you pretty much nullify the ability to bring in great talent. I dont know anybody whos going to move their family [if they cant work here] Its already quite difficult hiring from the U.S. because the quality of life in the U.S. in a lot of cities is much greater than it is in London.Hes less concerned about the prospect of being requiredto increase the salary requirement for individuals hired underthe tier 2 visa  although Coadecs Levin points out thatsome startups, likelyearlier stage, might choose to compensate a hire with equity rather than a large salary to reduce their burn rate. So a higher salary requirement could make life harder for other types of U.K.startups.Kimmelman was actually one of the signatories of the aforementioned open letter backing the Conservative Party at the General Election. Signatories of thatletter asserted the Tory-ledgovernment has enthusiastically supported startups, job-makers and innovators and the need to build a British culture of entrepreneurialism to rival Americas. Elsewhere in the world people are envious at how much support startups get in the UK. This Conservative-led government has given us wholehearted support and we are confident that it would continue to do so. It would be bad for jobs, bad for growth, and bad for innovation to change course.So is he disappointed that the new Conservative government is consulting on measures that, if implemented, could limit U.K.-based startup businesses access to digital skills?I wouldnt read too much into this just yet because they havent made any decisions, says Kimmelman. But if they do enact any of these policies I think it would be really harmful to the community.They have a lot of constituents other than just the tech community that theyre working for. So I hope that they dont do anything thats rash. But Ive been very impressed by the way that theyve handled things thus far and so I think I need to give them the benefit of the doubt, he adds.Levin says responses to Coadecs survey so far suggests U.K. startups main priorityis the government keeps the overseas talent pipeline flowing  with lessconcern over cost increases, such as if the government applies a skills levy to fund apprenticeship programs.But how thegovernment squares the circle of an ideological commitment to reducing net migration with keeping skills-hungry digital businesses on side remains to be seen.The radical option of really restricting [migration] to genuine shortages is scary  because we just dont know what that would look like, adds Levin. It could be that that would be the best answer for the tech sector because we might be able to make a case that there are genuine shortages and so wed be fine. But theres an uncertainty about what the future would look like  so at the moment were going to focus on making a positive case on why skilledmigration is vital for the digital economy.The prior Tory-led U.K. coalition government introduced a cap on tier 2 visas back in 2011  of just over 20,000 per year  which is applied asa monthly limit. That monthly cap was exceeded for the first time inJune, with a swathe ofvisa applications turned down as a result. Thats something Levin saysshows the current visa system is creaking at the seams  even before any further restrictions are factored in.Thirteen hundred applicants in June were turned down because theyd hit the cap, hesays, noting that when the cap is hit the Home Office uses salary level to choose between applicants. So the salary thresholds jump up from the 25th percentile which means the lower paid end of peoplelose out, which would probably disproportionately affect startups.You can find the Coadec immigration survey here.