Adyen, a payment startup based inAmsterdam that provides services for companies like Facebook, Uber and Netflix, made waves last year when it announced a $250 million Series Bthat valued it at $1.5 billion. Now less than a year later, Adyenisadding more to its coffers: ithas closed another round of funding, this time with a valuation of $2.3 billion.This latest injection comes from a single investor, Iconiq Capital, which is perhaps best known for investing in arange of tech companies on behalf of clients like Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg and Jack Dorsey. Iconiq is not disclosing the amount of this round but from what we understand it is in the double-digit millions and comes after years of conversations.(We have contacted Divesh Makan, who heads Iconiqand led the investment in Adyen, for more information and will update as we learn more.)Adyen, which was founded in 2006, has quietly  and modestly, with that $250 million round last year coming after raisingonly $16 million in the previous eight years  built abusiness around a mixture of payment services. They include seamlessly combining, online, offline and mobile transactions and refunds; cross-border payments and analytics services to track what is selling and where.That combination has proven to be fairly unique and in demand. Payments in the U.S. are good, but if you look at payment services forglobal merchants, the list is pretty thin, says Pieter van der Does, AdyensCEO and co-founder. Ourpromise is that we have all kinds of payments services covered with one contract.Van der Does says that Adyenhas been profitable since 2011 and plans to make $45 million in profit in 2015. He also says the company is on target to double revenues this year, and is currently sitting on an annualized value of more than $45 billion in transactions processed, up 80 percent since December.These numbers are whathe emphasizes in interviews overthe companys valuation.We are not keen on looking at where we standin a leaderboard of unicorns, he says bluntly.Given Adyens growth and profitability,Adyen did not raise this roundto runthe business, but to expand it. Or as Van der Does puts it: It was not something that we needed to do, but something that we wished to do, an opportunity and a vote of confidence.Specifically, while thecompany today says it works with seven of the 10 largest Internet firms in the U.S., it wants to fill out that list further(one notable absence from Adyensclient roster: Apple). This is wherenew relationship with Iconiq  which itself hasdeep connections with areaexecutives  willcome in handy.Another area where some of the investment may go is in building up Adyens wider presence in the Bay Area, potentially by way of acquisitions.Today, you cansee that there are many payment companies that are not profitable so I expect a certain shakeout, Van der Does says.He adds that acquisitions for Adyen areless about acquiringnew technology, which can become tricky to integrate when not built from the ground up. We lookspecifically at acquisitionsthat can add interesting teams and customers. But our strengthin having one platform is very dear to us, so were unlikely to follow a strategy where we end up with 30-50 platforms like some others have.Adyens growth comes at a time when two other paymentscompanies, First Data and Worldpay, are is gearing upforIPOs. Van der Does says going public isnot a route Adyen is considering right now:Werenot looking at anIPO in the short term, he says. The next couple of years will be about expansion, but Iwouldnt excludegoing public eventually.Existinginvestors in the company includeGeneral Atlantic, Temasek, Index Ventures, and Felicis Ventures.