On the surface, the smart lock space can seem pretty crowded already, with names likeLockitronandAugustandKisiand Kevo apparently in play for several years. But New York based Latch contends its mostly still noise. Aka a lot of crowdfundingcampaigns, and a lot less actual product delivery.That noiseis part of the reason why Latchhas spent the past two years keeping its head down focused on developing its first product  barthe odd bit of press coverage,including from when itgraduated from theR/GA accelerator this time last year. The founding team includes two ex-Apple employees: CEO Luke Schoenfelder, who worked in worldwide government affairs for Cupertino, and a former senior Apple designer, Thomas Meyerhoffer, Latchs chief design officer.The startupisnow ready to start manufacturing its first smart lock product, which istargeted at the enterprise market, and specifically aims to addressmulti-occupancy apartment blocks such as mansion blocks and/or offices(rather than being intended for front doors of individual apartments). Its also coming out of stealth proper to discuss theproduct, the eponymous Latch Lock, and disclose how muchfunding its raised announcing a $10.5 million Series A round led by Lux Capital today.Other investors in the Series A round includePrimary Venture Partners, Corigin Venture Partners, Camber Creek, Expansion Ventures,PCH, Camber Creek, 3rd Prime Capital, R/GA, Techstars, Wan Li Zhu of Fairhaven Capital and ZachAarons of MetaProp. In total its pulled in $16 million in funding to date since being founded in 2014.Italso has a number of fundsfrom the real estate sector as strategic backers  strategic given thats the sectorits targeting its enterprise grade smart locks at  although its not naming who these backers are specifically. (It will say that some of these investors have been its beta users up to now, given some of these individuals live in the buildings they own where Latch locks have in turn been trialled.)Itwill be using the new funding to scale its operations and manufacturing capacity, and to deploy its locks to  ithopes  a wide variety of customer across the US, says Schoenfelder.The thing thats been cool is that many of the folks that weve raised money from are our customers, and so the validation that weve gotten on that around are people actually going to buy this, are people excited about this, weve got avery direct feedback loop around that so were really confident that the market needs this product and is excited about it, he adds.The startup isnot disclosing how many enterprise customers it has signed up at this point, although clearly its real estate investors give it confidence it has building owners ready and willingto invest in shinynew next-gen locks. Schoenfelder tells TechCrunch Latch will be deploying its first proper pilotbuildingsin Q1 of this year, in New York where its headquartered.Unlike some othersmart locks in the market, Latch locks are not retrofit over existing locks but are designed to be the replacement lock/entry mechanism (Schoenfelder argues that smart locks that attemptto retrofit over existing locks arent so simple in practice,throwing up various fit and operational issues). So the product design includes an actual physical mortise lock mechanism, as well as various smarter flourishes  such as a camera, touchscreen and Bluetooth  to allow for digital keys to be used to gain entry, callers to be screened and other smart lock features such asentry tracking. Latchs hardware willalso support unlocking via Apples Touch ID.The product has atouchscreen so users can input one-time entry codes, thereby allowing peopleto gain entry to a Latch locked building without having to own or use a smartphone (or indeed have downloaded a dedicated app) just to get access.You have the circular interface, which is the touch panel. Its a very simple and iconic solution,saysMeyerhoffer. You can email the user a code, a one-time access or over a period of time. Weve been really thinking about these different steps or these different levels of being able to access the building.Theinclusion ofanactual physical lock for traditional metalkeys offers a familiar entry pointforusers who might not becomfortable with the various smarter entry methods of Latch, as well as offering a backup entry option for thosewhose phone battery has died (or whose phone has been lost).Anotherdistinguishing difference the team points to isa tamper detection feature to warn if someone is trying to pick the lock. As with other smart locks, the Latch Lock will track comings and goings, keeping a log of who has gained entry and for how long, which can be shared with building owners or apartment owners.On the enterprise grade side, the Latch has been designed to comply with the highest buildings grade lockstandards, saysSchoenfelder. The pair aredismissive of consumer smart lock gadgetry thats been crowdfunded in recent years, arguing enterprise customers will need a lot more confidence thatthe hardware theyre being sold will last and wont come with any unwelcome surprises.We have the highest lock safety and security rating on our products that you can get. The highest fire ratings  all these things are required to operate in large buildings, saysSchoenfelder. Ill give you an example, we have something called single motion egress which in laymans terms means that if theres a fire you can always turn the door handle and everything unlocks automatically so you can get out very quickly. And thats required in most major metropolitan areas in the US and were the only smart lock that has that feature.We see our biggest competition as the status quo. Metal keys have been around for thousands of years and people dont always change their behaviors overnight and so for us its about creating a system that offers the same reliability and security and safety as physical keys but offers all of these amazing new features that digital access can provide, he adds.We have spent a long time getting this right, adds Meyerhoffer. So theres been a great space for the design to be developed and thought through. Of course one of the most important things for a lock company or an access company in general is just giving the right values out  and thats trust and longevity and some sort of mindfulness of the whole experience. We didnt want to launch until we were ready.Latch isnot disclosing its per lock pricing yet, but will say it plans to offer flexible options so customers who prefer to spend more on capex up front can, and those that prefer lower capex but are ok with a higher opex will also be able to sign up for some sort of subscription style package.Given its targeting apartment blocks, Latch looks most similar to German startupKiwi.ki, which took part in the TC Disrupt Europe battlefield back in 2013 (and which has a partnership with Deutsche Post in Germany to make it easy for mail carriers to gain access to apartments). ButKiwi.ki is focused on the German marketsoremainsfar from Latchs backyard. Certainlyfor now (although the Latch team reckonstheres no barrier to rolling their product out internationally in future, in markets such as Europe and China where mortise locks are also common).What about battery life? As with other smart locks, the Latch Lock needs power for its fancier features to function (although its metal mortise lockwill still function sanspower). The team wont specify exact battery specsat this stage but they will say it will have a larger battery than anything else on the market.Schoenfelder adds that longevity wise the target is for about 12 months of operation  although he notes that it will depend on usage.If youre somebody who uses it a lot, you have a lot of people coming and going everyday, then it will last a shorter period of time. If youre using it a couple of times per day, more for personal use, it will last longer than that. But our target has been to last for about 12 months, he adds.Another battery-related feature he flags up is the factthe Latch syncs battery data every time the owner unlocks the door  to help ensure predictability on its longevity front, as heputs it.The other thing that we do is that because were not justdependent on smartphone unlock is that we have sort of a graceful power-down, he adds. So that when your battery gets low well shut off all the additional sensors and just leave the touchscreen functioning. So that you can still get in but not all of the features will work, so that youre given a long grace period to change the batteries.On the privacy side, Latch doeshold encryption keys for the data being gathered by its locks  such as who has gained entry and when  so in theory it could be subpoenaed to hand over that data to law enforcement/security agencies (for example).We hold the encryption keys and maintain the security for the product, confirms Schoenfelder, adding: We do not have and are intentionally not creating a view where were going to see individual access logs. We will obviously maintain that data in aggregate to serve to the individual tenant so that they can see their timeline, the building management so they can see their timelines but were purposefully avoiding the godview type problem that some other service providers have created for themselves by having all of this data accessible to employees etc.Given its first product is addressing the primarydoor of an apartment block, rather than individual apartment front doors, the pairargue these are public/communal areas anyway so expectations of privacy would naturally be lowerthan for actual front doors.That said,Latchsounds as if ithas plans to develop a whole range of smart locks down the line, so it may beoffering a smart lock product for actual frontdoors in future too. Ergo theprivacy piece is likely to get more complex  but at least Latch is sensitive to the issue.[Privacy] is something I think about a lot, saysSchoenfelder, whose LinkedIn profile lists consumer privacy as one of the issues he worked on when he was atApple. Not just in the context of Latch but as a user of so many of these services  where do I feel comfortable and where now as Im creating one of these services, should I ask our users to be comfortable. What would I be comfortable with?When I was at Apple this was one of the main things that we were trying to figure out  what are the standards that are going to be best practice for the industry? And for us I think were taking a very Apple approach in this, which is we dont want to have any additional data. We really want to intentionally leave the data in control of the people who are creating it.