A startup building a live broadcasting service for mobile users, previously known as Yevvo, which has raised close to $4 million in Series A funding, an SEC filing shows and the company confirms, is now becoming Air.Launched in mid-2013, Yevvos first app was designed to offer users a way to tweet a link to their live video stream that was push-button simple to use. The company has since pulled the Yevvo app from the App Store and has replaced it with its next-generation service called, still in private beta.Users were informed of the change last month via an email that explained how the company had been working on the updated app Air over the past 8 months. Read the email, in part:Weve taken the parts of Yevvo you loved the most, and focused just on those. Air is all about you. Its all about sharing your experiences with your best friends, from anywhere.Since our launch last year, youve taught us a lot about what creates a meaningful lifestreaming experience. This is what Air is all about. Weve also made Air an invite-only community, to make sure that everyone has a friend from the start. You can read more about why we chose to make Air invite-only here.Co-founder and CEO Ben Rubin confirmed the fundraise, which was led by Israeli VC Aleph with participation fromOoga Labs and other San Francisco-areaangel investors. The funding actually took place 10 months ago, but the SEC filing just popped up.The new application, which is still in an experimental phase and may change in time, also focuses on streaming live video as Yevvo did before, the app store description indicates. Friends can only join a stream while its live in Air, as there are no replays. With a button press, a userbegins recording and then Air will notify friends that youre live. During the stream, friends can post comments and you can chat with them in return.While there isnt a way to re-watch a stream, which givesAir somewhat of a Snapchat-like ephemeral quality, the app does allow you to capture images during a stream in order to create a Flashback for friends to view later.Another feature called Encore allows you to tell a friend that you want to see them go live again.The difference between Air and the earlier app Yevvo seems to be more about the audience for the streams you create using the service. From the way the company describes its product on its blog,Air is more focused on sharing with close friends  that is, a social app you use privately  while Yevvo was used more publicly, liketo promoteyour live streams to Twitter followers.Writes the company,We created Air for you to stream live video to people that you actually care about. We want you to know the people that youre watching and streaming to. Live video is as unpredictable and honest as it gets, and we believe that its important to experience Air with friends that you know from the real world.Air today also hassimplified feature set when compared with Yevvo, as far as we can tell from screenshots, no longer showcasing featured streams from other users, for example. From the looks of the app, the company wants to be more aligned with mobile messaging apps going forward.Its worth pointing out, however, that while somewhat differentiated from others, Air will still have to take on a market leader in this broaderspace. Snapchat has also ventured into live content with its real-timevideo chat featuresand addition of Our Story in recent months. It also bought up a service called AddLive for $30 million ($10m cash/$20m stock) to help it power its videoofferings.The Air app, which is only open to private beta testers at this time, is live on iTunes here.Note: Article updated to clarify the timing of the fundraise, which was for Yevvo before its new pivot to Air. 