Sharing economy companies like Airbnb, Uber, TaskRabbit and othershave grown popular for offering new types of work, and by association, additional incomes to people worldwide. While making a littleside money comes in handy, a cautionary tale from a top Airbnb host in Asia shows the potential perils of becoming too reliant on these services.Last week, Airbnb suspended the account belonging toBangkok-based Kelly Kampen, one its Super Hosts and a top Airbnb ambassador in Asia, with immediate effect and no explanation, as he explained in a post on Medium.The move is particularly odd since Kampen was a prolific host,having welcomed over700 guests to his Bangkok-based home over the past two years, netting himself more than $40,000 in revenue in the processas he previously disclosed. Kampen is well known insideAirbnb, too. Hewas scheduled to speak at Airbnbs Open event in Paris this coming November  with the company covering his flight and accommodation  andhad been involvedin the companyscommunity events.Kampen told TechCrunch that he is unsure why Airbnb terminated his account.While he received notification of his suspension via a phone call and emails, none of this correspondence nor his subsequent conversations with company representatives, explained Airbnbs decision. An email that he sent to Airbnbs three founders elicited a response from CTONathanBlecharczyk who promised to look into hiscase, butthere was never any follow-up.Airbnb declined our multiple requests for comment on Kampens suspension, but it did provide a general statement in response:We do not generally discuss confidential information regarding individual hosts and guests. There may be many reasons why people are removed from the platform including quality or safety concerns. Dedicated members of our team continually review host and guest profiles. While these decisions are difficult, ultimately there is nothing more important to us than the safety of the people who use Airbnb.In this case, youd think that Airbnb mightbe inclined to be more specific  since other hosts may wellbe concerned that they, too, might experience a similar nightmare  but thats all that we have.Kampen told TechCrunch that he didnt believe that user safety  one aspectflagged by the companys statement  was an issue. In the event that a guest had lodged a complaint against him and his rooms  and there is no evidencethat this is the case with Kampen  youd expect that Airbnb would look into the issue and weigh in a hosts history, rather than making a snap decision to remove them based on a single piece of feedback.Another area of safety could be that it appears that Kampens account had been accessed by a third-party. Reviewing his account, henoticed that an iPhone had been logging in as him from different locations across the U.S. over the past couple of months. Since Kampen hadnt left Bangkok during that period  and he confirmed he doesnt have a VPN client on his phone  it wasnt him. He flagged the issue toAirbnb, butdidnt get a direct response. In the event that his account had been comprised by a third party, terminating his account in this way is certainly an extreme response.Its interesting to note that, according to Kampen, Airbnb representativesin Thailand and regional team in Asia told him that they had fought to retain him as a host. Since the decision was never reversed, it stands to reason that it was made by Airbnb HQ in the U.S. and that it wasa contentious one. Conspiracy theorists might argue that the company didnt like Kampens very public declaration of his revenue, or perhaps felt that he had become too influential a figure, though there is no evidence for either motivation.Whatever the reason may have been, thisexample is one of caution for otherswho make moneyfrom Airbnb listings.Hedge your income with other services, Kampen warnedother hosts. I am already on 9flats, Flipkey and others [but] prior to this I never put any serious thought into other services.