Elisa Schreiber is the marketing partner at Greylock Partners and the producer of the Greymatter video series.In 2008, Airbnb co-founders Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia could barely make rent. But, after hosting strangers on air mattresses at their apartment, they came up with acrazy business concept  people paying tostay in other peoples homes around the world. In pre-Uber times, some of Silicon Valleys most prominent investors told them their idea would never scale.The world thoughtwe were crazy, recalls Gebbia.But the RISD grads were so passionate about their idea that they bootstrapped their company with a binder full ofcredit cards and sold politically themed cereal boxes during the 2008 presidential campaign  called Obama Os andCaptain McCains  for $40 a box. The tenacity behind the collector edition cereal boxes not only got them out of debt. but also impressed Y Combinator co-founder Paul Graham enough to get the team accepted into the accelerator.Gebbia recollects that Paul offered him the single greatest piece of advice he has ever received Go meet yourpeople. Do things that dont scale.There is a mythology in Silicon Valley entrepreneurs are obligated to solveproblems in a scalable way, but for Airbnb, it was the wrong approach.Chesky and Gebbia flew to New York  the city where they had the most early customers  and it was there, in theirusers homes, that they began tounderstand what problems people were having with the product. They found thatmany of their listing photos were blurry, so they rented a DSLR camera and walked door to door in Manhattan andBrooklyn to take photos of peoples apartments. Airbnb continues to encourage better quality images for listingsand connects hosts to professional photographers,free of charge.We got so close that we go to step into their shoes for a moment and see the world through their eyes, and reallysee the pain points that they were feeling, says Gebbia. Thats the basic of innovation  you take an enlightenedand empathetic point of view and combine it with your own unique point of view to create something new. In ashort period of time, the quality of listings improved and number of options increased.Today, Airbnb has hosted over 40M guests in 34,000 cities around the world. To any entrepreneur out there, youcant take no for a answer Gebbia warns, We had really smart credible people out there telling us no. And hadwe listened to them there might not be Airbnb today.