In response to calls for stronger action on hosts that arent casual users, Airbnb said it would start sharing some datawith governments andgetting hosts to agree to a policy of listing only their permanent homes.Heres what Brian Chesky said in a post today:Today, were taking the next step to turn these principles into concrete actions by releasing the Airbnb Community Compact. There are three commitments that are part of this Compact:Unfortunately, theres not a ton of information on what this all means. When I asked company spokesperson Nick Papas for more information on what kind of data would be shared, he replied:Our community  and our business  are stronger when guests are staying in primary residences and interacting with hosts. We will be releasing anonymized information about the profile of the community  including information showing how many hosts are sharing permanent homes  so cities can see if we are walking the walk. Our experience is that our community is very good about making decisions in the best interest of their communities.Papas stressed that the data will be anonymized to protect hosts and guests privacy.But the issue is if that Airbnb knows how many hosts are sharing permanent homes, they shouldhave a sense of which hosts are not doing that and they should actively block or require them to undergo extra hurdles to register with the city government.Eric Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general who subpoenaed financial data on hosts last year, called todays statement atransparent ploy by Airbnb to act like a good corporate citizen when it is anything but. He added, The company has all of the information and tools it needs to clean up its act. Until it does, no one should take this press release seriously.Last year, Schneiderman subpoenaed data that showed that 6 percent ofhosts were generating 37 percent of the platforms revenue inNew York City.Airbnb has disputed this interpretation of the data while Schneidermans team hasargued thatthe subpoena didnt even go far enough.Heres some of the data Airbnb says it will now release in annual reports. As you can see, manyof the data points are averages,which no one necessarily cares about because most hosts are casual, justlike Airbnb says. Its the commercial hosts that city governments and housing activists are worried about and who likely happen to be some ofcompanys most lucrative sources of revenue.While Airbnb successfully fought offProposition F in San Francisco, it may still face tighterregulations with progressive AaronPeskin electedto the citys Board of Supervisors. The company is alsostill embroiled in an ongoing regulatory processin New York City, not to mention numerous other cities across the United States.There are lots of other kinds of compromises cities and the companycould work out. Maybe hosts should be able to freely list spaces without being registered for up to 90 days in a single calendar year. But if they go over that and dont happen to be registered, maybe the hosting platformsshould cut them off andonly re-list them if they have the appropriateregistration.Ive written about the difficulty of enforcement here.In San Francisco, we have four enforcement officers (soon to be six) that can onlyreallyreactivelyrespond to neighbor complaintsbecause they dont have any visibility into the size or growth of the market, which had slightly less than 10,000 units listed onAirbnb in the last calendar year. Then, on top of that, we dont know the activity on VRBO, Craigslist or the dozens of other platforms. City enforcement officersdont have any accurate data and only slightly more than 700 hosts have registered.Its in Airbnbsinterest to have a settled and stable pattern of regulation across its major markets before it goes for an IPO. But until U.S. city governments and the public feel comfortable that the company has cut out or eliminated commercial actors that have multiple properties or are convertingpermanent housing to short-term rentals, this will bean open case.