San Francisco Supervisor Mark Farrell and Mayor Ed Lee are backing a new set of tighter regulations on short-term rentals and their biggest hosting platforms like Airbnb.After years of avoiding the subject, the citys legislative body finally legalized short-term stays last fall and put certain controlson them, includingrequiring the host to register with the city. But even after these new regulations came into effect in February, only a few hundred out of the thousands of hosts had registered with the city.So nowFarrell is now proposing amendments to these laws. They come at a critical time for the city, which is in the midst of an enormous housing shortage. The city has builtfewer than 10,000 housing units overthe last five years, while adding about100,000 employed residentsin the same time period. ASan FranciscoChronicle study found 5,000 Airbnb listings on a single day of scraping the site last year.The revisionsalso come at a critical time for Airbnb, which is facing regulatory battles indesirable urban and coastal areas acrossthe United States. Portland, another early pioneer of Airbnb legislation, also got tougher on enforcement this yearafterbeing the model city that cut the very first deal with Airbnb on taxes and regulation in the country.Farrellsaid today: I fully believe that we should support home sharing in SanFrancisco, but in a way that protects affordable housing in our City, creates a regulatoryenvironment that is simply and enforceable, and removes red-tape for people who arelooking to share their residences.The proposed changesinclude:Ive embedded the legislation here:New proposed Airbnb regulationsWhat does Airbnb think?Airbnb Letter to London BreedButtheres another coalitionof property owners and affordable housing activists that may put an even more stringent measureon the ballot later this year:Dale Carson, a spokesperson for the group called ShareBetter, was critical ofthe newproposal:This legislation moves us in the wrong direction. It exacerbates the incentives to illegally convert residential units to tourist accommodations. It completely indemnifies Airbnb and other hosting platforms that are aiding and abetting illegal activity. And it denies regular people the opportunity to effectively defend their own homes and neighborhoods.The Planning Department has made it abundantly clear that the Airbnb legislation passed by the Board of Supervisors last fall is unenforceable. By failing to penalize hosting platforms that violate the law and denying regular San Franciscans their day in court, the amendments proposed today will make the unenforceability problem much worse.Fortunately, in November, the voters of San Francisco will have the opportunity to establish meaningful, enforceable rules for short-term tourist rentals.