Another management change isunderway at Google: TechCrunch has learnedthat Alan Eustace, a longtime Google employee and itsSVP of Knowledge  and also the current world-record holder for making the highest-altitude free-fall jump  is leaving the company.Eustaceis not departingfor another role elsewhere but is retiring, from what we understand. The news was conveyed to staff by internal memo, and its not clear who will be taking over his role and/or if there are any other departures.Weve been told by a source that Google has been working through a larger reorganization of its business. Eustace had been looking to leave for a while and seized the moment.We have reached out to Google to get more details.Eustace joined Google back in 2002 as a transplant from HP. Joining the company when it was four years old, he startedout first as the SVP of engineering. In 2011, he became the SVP of Knowledge, a newly created division thatincluded search at the time. These days, search has its own SVP-level executive, Amit Singhal.Things have been moving around at the executive level ofGoogle in the last several months.In October last year(literally the same day Eustace set his skydiving record),several divisionsof the company were centralised under Sundar Pichai, including Eustaces research operations. Shortly after that,Android pioneer AndyRubin left the company. Other research leaders who have left Google include Sebastian Thrun, who helped found Google X to developmoonshot products and technology. He stepped awayfrom his VP and Fellow roles at the company last September to focus more on his education startup Udacity.Google is a company in transition, with the companys widened focus today onareas like mobile, video, driverless cars, cloud-based services like maps and other apps, and connected home products,expanding its reachit well beyond the search business that was its main operationwhen Eustace joined in 2002.Googlereported earnings last quarter that missed analyst expectations, on the back of higher expenses and a decline in average cost-per-click.Yesterday,wereported that its search market share in the U.S.  excluding mobile  had dropped below 75% amid gains from Yahoo. The companys search deal with Apple  as a default option in Safari  is also understood be up for renewal this year.