South China Morning Post (SMCP), the Hong Kong-based media firm, has dropped the paywall on its website after Alibaba completed its acquisition the company. Itsphysical newspaper and PDF editionswill continue to be subscription based.SCMP previouslylimited the number of stories that non-paying users could access on its website each month, but now that limit has been removed in a step that paves the way to grow its readership globally, according toEditor-in-Chief Tammy Tam. Tam further argued that the world needs insightful and trusted news from China, a similar line to what weve heard from Alibaba founder Jack Ma.Alibaba announced plans to buy the 113-year-old newspaper in December. Companies buying media always elicits concern. Alibabaexecutive chairman Joe Tsaisaid at the time the e-commercegiant wouldnot get in the wayofthe papers work, but instead use its resources to take the SCMP to the next level. Thats going to mean increased monetization efforts on the business side throughwhat Alibaba calls an e-commerce media ecosystem.Beyondthanthree buzzwords bundledtogether into a phrase, Alibaba CEO Daniel Zhang has argued the casethat media represents a potentially lucrative channel for e-commerce services  and those of Alibaba, in particular  while also offeringto help media companies make money. Beyond SCMP, Alibaba has invested in microblogging site Weibo and is in the process of completing a$3.5 billion acquisition of video site Youku Tudouto beef up its media portfolio.In additionthe removal of itspaywall, SCMPs mobile apps have also been upgraded with search, deep-linking, personalization and other features. These apps aresomething to watch since Alibaba says it is now amobile first company, with mobilerepresenting the majority of its business.Many were skeptical of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos intentions when he acquired the Washington Post,but the paper appears to have been allowed to continue on under his reign. If anything it has seen a new lease of life. Alibaba is comparable to Amazon in many ways, and we can onlywait to see if it canbe patient and hands-off with its sparkling new mediaasset.