Alibaba, the New York Stock Exchange-listed Chinese e-commerce giant, is getting into video in a major way, after it announced plans tobuy out Youku Tudou, one of Chinas top YouTube-like services, in an all cash deal. Alibabapreviously spent$1.22 billion onan18.3 percent stake in the video firm, which claims to serve 580 million users each month.Youkus market cap is $3.8 billion, and Alibaba intends to payUS$26.60 per share  a decent markup on the most recentclosing share price of $20.43. Thus, the deal values Youku at around $5.1 billion. Alibaba confirmed on an analyst call that, taking into accountthe cash on Youkus books, its total offering is wortharound $3.5 billion.Ifthe acquisition is a success, Alibaba intends to take Youku private, according to a filing. Youku chairman andCEO Victor Koo will remain at the helm of the company.To be clear, Alibaba is offering to buy the company and, while Koo and other founding shareholders have given their blessing to the proposed deal, it is still subject to shareholder approval.Alibaba is intendingto take full ownership of the company  which was created when rivals Youku and Tudou merged in 2012 tosupercharge its focus on digital entertainment.Alibaba is best known for its e-commerce services  which include its Taobao marketplace and T-Mall site for brands  but it has also made big plays in content as part of a bid to be more present in Chinese Internets users daily lives. Aside from its investment in Youku, Alibaba owns a stake in microblogging site Sina Weibo (via a $586 million investment) and it has a burgeoning business in content creation, including Wasu Media (a company backed by Alibaba founder Jack Ma), and Alibaba Pictures, a movie content firm.More tangible evidence of Alibabas media ambition can be found in Tmall Box Office, a Netflix-like service that it recently launched in China, and its move into the living room with smart TVs and set-top boxes. These devices, which are made by third-party manufacturers, run on Alibabas own operating system and include a suite of its products  allowing device owners to shop, pay bills, and more right from their big screen.Clearly, there are further synergies for Youku andAlibaba said it plans to use its e-commerce, media and advertising platforms to significantly accelerate Youkus growth.Thats important because, to date, the company has struggled financially despite its huge and very active userbase.Youku and Tudou merged their businesses to save on common costs and expenses, but the financial good times havent exactly rolled in. Revenue in Q2 2015 grew 57 percent year-on-year to reach$259.6 million, but the company posted a net loss of$55.2 million for the three-month period.Youku isnt alone in battling it out for the attention of Chinese Internet users, either. BaidusiQiyi, Sohu and Tencent all compete in the video space, with Baidu and Tencent able to lean on their search engine and mobile messaging empires, respectively, to pull in viewers. Recent research suggested that theres little to separate Youku and iQiyi (Tudou remains a separate site to Youku) as the largest video platforms in China.Challenges aside, Youkuis getting close to seeing half of advertising revenue come from mobile, but it looks like it might find a better fit as a private subsidiary of Alibaba, rather than a public listing, independent business. Well, thats what going to happen anyway.