 Scientists at Stanford University have developed a prototypebendablebattery made from aluminumthat charges very quickly, is long lasting and offers safety advantages over lithium cells given the materials used areless volatile and donot catch fire if perforated. So, bottom line, aluminum-ion batteries could result in safer consumer electronics in future that alsocharge faster and can havethinner or even flexible form factors  all of which sounds pretty handyforfuture generations ofwearables.Weve seen thin and bendy lithium-ion batteries in research labs before, but aluminum offers cost and safety advantages over lithium  hence researchers ongoing interest in the material. And while developing a high performance, commercially viable aluminum-ion batteryhas proved elusive thus far, the Stanford researchers stumbled onusinggraphite (a type of carbon) for the cells cathode which they say yieldsgood performance.Their battery has beenable to withstand more than 7,500 charging cycles without any loss of capacity, vs other lab developed aluminum batteries typically lasting around 100 cycles before expiring.This was the first time an ultra-fast aluminum-ion battery was constructed with stability over thousands of cycles, the authors writein the journal Nature, where their research has been published.The ionic liquid electrolyte theyre using for the battery is a salt thats liquid at room temperature  another safety and environmental advantage for their proto cell  held inside a flexible polymer-coated pouch. Their battery can generate around 2 volts of electricity, which they say is also higher than other researchers have achieved with aluminum. In the video they demoa couple of their prototype batteries being used to charge a smartphone within a minute.Of courseits early days for the research, with improvements to voltage and energy density required if thetech istobe commercialized. But the researchers seem positivetheir aluminum-ion battery tech has promise.Our battery produces about half the voltage of a typical lithium battery.But improving the cathode material could eventually increase the voltage and energy density. Otherwise, our battery has everything else youd dream that a battery should have: inexpensive electrodes, good safety, high-speed charging, flexibility and long cycle life. I see this as a new battery in its early days. Its quite exciting, Hongjie Dai, a professor of chemistry at Stanford and one of the researchers, told the Stanford Report.Beyond small electronics devices, one interesting potential use-case mentioned by Dai isforstoringrenewable energy on the electrical grid. Lithium cells durability means theyarent ideally suited for this application. But aluminum cells ability to last for tens of thousands of charges, and their rapid charge and discharge,offers a possible future alternative.