Forget billboards or magazineads. If an advertiser wants to put its brand in front of a big audience today, you may as well slap that ad on an Amazon shipping box. Or, at least, thats the mindset behind the new partnership betweenUniversal Pictures and Illumination Entertainment and Amazon. The retailerhas begun toshipcustomer orders inbright yellow delivery boxes featuring cartoon characters from the upcoming Minions movie. The dealrepresents the first time Amazon has ever allowed a third party to completely brand its delivery boxes, the company tells us.Thepairing between the movie makers and Amazonmakes sense for thislatest installment in the Despicable Me franchise of films. The popular movies, which to date have grossed over $1.5 billion at the box office worldwide, have already turned the filmscharacters into merchandise. The minions have been translated into a ton of consumer products, including dolls and figurines, board games and video games, and other toys. They also grace clothing, including socks, shoes, hats and other accessories, as well as products for the home like bed sheets, curtains, kitchen items, wall decals, and even consumer packaged goods like Motts applesauce and juice, for example.And of course, Amazon sells it all.Like a traditional print ad, the new Amazon boxes help promote the movie not only by raising awareness about the brand itself, but by noting the date the moviearrives in theaters (July 10). The boxespoint also toa special Amazon URL. As it turns out, thatwebsite, amazon.com/minions, is a dedicated shopping site for all things minions. Amazon says more content will be added to the site as the films opening date approaches.Amazon also tells us the boxes will ship from select fulfillment centers, and will come in a range of sizes to accommodate a variety of customer orders for things like books, electronics, DVDs, toys, sporting goods and more. Different minions will grace the different sizes of boxes  Stuart is on large boxes, Bob on medium ones, and Kevin is on the smallest.The partners first teased the boxesby way of tweetsand Facebook postsat the end of May, noting that the minions would be arriving on customers doorsteps soon. From the looks of things on social media, many customers have begun seeing these boxesarrive over the past several days. (Update: we understand the boxes began shipping on May 25th and will continue until July 10th.)For the most part (well, except for this guy),early consumer response to the marketing campaign appears to be positive. Several peopleeven tweeted that they were planning to order from Amazon just to get one of the boxes, if you can believe that.Details of the deal were first reported by The LA Times.Amazon declined to say whether this partnership means well see other custom-branded boxes arriving in the future or how many customers will receive these yellow boxes during the promotional period. However, we understand the company would be open to similar marketing campaigns going forward.As a UPS employee I see hundreds of these boxes a day now and it makes me smile! Haha! Thanks @amazon & @Minions !!! pic.twitter.com/wabFTyUwc8 Crazymiller (@CrazyMillerGame) June 2, 2015Just ordered a couple of kids books from #Amazon and they came in this fun yellow minions box! #MinionsBoxes pic.twitter.com/vTgZwsGNpl  Sarah Bachtold (@sarahbachtold) June 1, 2015@CinCinBear Well its official, Minions have taken over Amazon. Theyre everywhere now. pic.twitter.com/zHqcCGWGTp Emerson (@emerson123567) May 30, 2015Our @amazon order arrived today. #BrilliantMarketing @Minions, simply brilliant. #minions #marketing @UniversalPics pic.twitter.com/qauYkGCbbL  Angela Johnson (@4TheLoveOfFam) May 28, 2015Image credit: Pantone, which has a Minions paint color.