Following on from last weeks news that Amazon would expand its Pantry household items delivery service to the UK while also discounting new Prime memberships in the country, the e-commerce giant is now quietly addinganother serviceto the UKto build holiday shopping momentum: Launchpad  aportal tomarket, sell and deliver gadgets and other products made by startups  is now live in the UK, openingits platform to local startups to list and sell their products.Launchpad originally launched in the U.S. in July of this year partnering with the likes of Y Combinator, VCs like Andreessen Horowitz and Kickstarter to connect with early-stage startups. To that list its now also adding more local portals like Crowdcubeand Crowdfunder.co.uk.Its purpose isto get startups from Europe to list and sell their items, with the promise of giving them more visibility and solving some of the pain points of distribution, essentially providing an all-in-one Product Hunt, Shopify and Shyp experience.The UK launch is not exactly a surprise: theFT earlier today reported that Amazonwould extend the portalto UK startups sometime this week. Now the portal has quietly gonelive. For now, products are being added by invitation only, the company notes.Among the first wave of itemsthat Amazon is selling are Cyanogen phones from Wileyfox(which we covered here when they were first announced); the iKettle from Smarter.am., andRadfan(a very UK product: it is a fan that you attach to your radiator) as well as items from non-tech categories, like this artisanal gin from Devon.The FT reports that Kano  the childrens coding and computer kit startup  will also be on Launchpad although I have yet to see a listing for it. Similarly, the portalfor startups listsseveral other startups that will be involved.Alongside this, there are alsoproducts from the U.S. such as smartwatches from Pebble and the Ring smart doorbell.As with the U.S.Launchpad, the idea is to present the products in a richer way than Amazons basic sales pages. Above isan example of how it bleeds the main product image for Wileyfox, although there may need to be more done here by Amazon. As you can see, it sits somewhat awkwardly with Amazons classic buy box in the upper-right hand corner.Well help you create story-telling opportunities for you to talk about your products using larger images, videos and custom product detail pages, and merchandise them across Amazon and on our programme storefront to ensure they are discoverable to our customers, Amazon notes. They also serve as a kind of mini portal about the startups themselves, withshort interviews with the founders and other details.Amazon is known for taking its time to buildnew servicesin the U.S. before expanding them abroad  it took four years to sellKindle e-readers outside its home market. Butwith the growing popularity of products from startups, Amazon has perhaps taken stock of where it might find itself outclassed by faster-moving companies like Shopify or Shyp, and it has taken a different approach.From itsstart in July, Amazonlured smaller hardware makers to Launchpadwith the promise of international distribution across 10 international portals.Opening the platform to non-U.S. startups is the complement to that.And in a way, Launchpad fills a hole.Startups have long lamented about the difficulties of scaling a business out of Europe: its one reason why many decide to migrate to Silicon Valley to seek more funding and connections. Programs like thisoffers them one way to quickly meet demand on their own (and Amazons steam)as a product picks up speed.Indeed, this is what Amazon seems to be playing on itself.We often hear from startups that bringing a new product to customers can be just as challenging as building it, it notes in its FAQs. At Amazon Launchpad, were working with crowdfunding platforms, venture capitalists and startup accelerators to solve the sales and distribution problems every startup faces. We support these young companies with Amazons global selling and retail expertise so they can stay focused on product innovation. The Amazon Launchpad programme will help startups bring new products to our customers.