Amazon Echo is becoming a surprisingly good product. With countless of integrations, you can now control many things using your voice. Its now possible to order pizza, play something on Spotify and call an Uber using your voice. But its also a new device  Amazon only released the Echo in June 2015. Thats why we are excited to announce that Amazon Vice President of Echo, Alexa and Appstore Mike George will join us on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt New York on May 9-11, 2016.Slowly but surely, Amazon is building a brand new platform with the Amazon Echo. And in many ways, the company is beating Apples Siri, Microsofts Cortana and Google Now at their own game. Its interesting to see that Amazon had to invent a brand new device to push its voice assistant because the company doesnt have a significant market share when it comes to mobile phones.And it seems to be working as Amazon recently expanded the product line with the $130 Tap and the $90 Dot. Now, Amazon wants you to have an Alexa-powered device in all your rooms. Maybe youll plug it to your existing speaker, or maybe its going to be a speaker by itself.There are a few reasons why the Amazon Echo platform is a killer product, and it starts with the user experience. When you ask Alexa for something, she answers and very little time. In many cases, the response rate seems too good to be true, and its unclear how the Amazon Echo can communicate so quickly with the Internet.Amazon has proved that theres market for voice assistant speakers. Now, its time to sell as many Echo as possible  the service should improve over time as more people use the Amazon Echo. And it would entice third-party developers to develop even more integrations.What was the tipping point for the Amazon Echo and whats next now that the platform is taking off? Well find out at Disrupt New York. Other speakers include Foursquares Dennis Crowley and Jeff Glueck, Fred Wilson, theSkimms Carly Zakin and Danielle Weisberg, Giphys Alex Chung, YouNows Adi Sideman and more.Buy tickets to Disrupt here.Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you want to learn more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.