Amazon announced this morning its move into feature films will begin withthe debut of the first-ever Amazon Original Movie, Spike Lees Chi-Raq. The drama, which is Lees next major film, stars a number of big names includingNick Cannon, Wesley Snipes, Jennifer Hudson, Angela Bassett, John Cusack and Samuel L. Jackson, and is focused on a more serious story of gang violence in inner-city Chicago.The companys intention to enter into the film business was first unveiled thisJanuary. Through its production arm, Amazon Studios, Amazon will now be backing theatrical releases that have a shortened window before they become available for streaming. That is, while typical Hollywood movies tend to arrive 39 to 52 weeks after they premiere, Amazon said that its movies wouldreachAmazon Prime Instant Video in just 4 to 8 weeks after they hit the big screen. At the time of the announcement, Amazon said its goal was to produce 12 movies per year.The creative development at Amazon Original Movies is being headed up by Ted Hope, whose Good Machine production company previously launchednotable films and Academy Award-noms like Eat Drink Man Woman, and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, for example. Coincidentally, the upcoming sequel to Crouch Tiger, Hidden Dragon is not appearing on Amazon, but is rather among the slate of upcoming Netflix original films instead.Both Amazon and Netflixare now angling their way into the movie industry, following their efforts in the TV arena, as a means of building their respective streaming service brands with a consumer audience. As with their other exclusive, original shows, Netflix and Amazons films give the companiesanother tool to entice subscribers to join their service, or, in Amazons case, itsPrime membership program which includes free streaming. As each scoreshigh-profiletitles with big Hollywood names attached, they have the opportunity to establish themselves as the only place (or at least the first place) where some of these movies or series can be streamed.To some extent, the brands are already succeeding with making their names known as the streaming home associated withquality content. For instance, most consumers know that House of Cards and Orange Is The New Black are shows you can watch on Netflix, while recent award winner Transparent is on Amazon Instant Video.With Chi-Raq, Amazon has yet to announce details involving the movies theatrical launch date, or which distributors its working with. Nor has it confirmed the exact window betweenthe movies theatrical debut and its arrival on Amazons video service. However, Amazon did say that Chi-Raq wrapped its Chicago production last week. Meanwhile,IMDb points to a 2016 release because the film was originally planned for a premiere at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival, but the latest news is that the film is due to open in December in order to qualify for participation this years Oscars race.A December premierewill put Amazons first original film release slightly behind that of Netflixs, which announced that Cary Fukunagas Beasts of No Nation will releaseon October 16 on its servcie. However, with Netflixs films, the company is pursuing a slightly different strategy  itslaunching the film online at the same time as it arrives in select U.S. theaters.Image credit: AP/Victoria Will