In case you needed another reason to buy Amazons Internet-connected speaker, the Amazon Echo: the device can now order pizza for you, following your verbal command. Have all my dreams come true? Yes. Yes, they have. The feature is actually being made available by way of a third-party application from delivery chain Dominos, which has been experimenting with new digital ordering systemsover the past year, including the option to order pizzas by tweeting an emoji.Dominos is now the first company in the pizza and quick-serve restaurant industry to support ordering by way of Amazon Echos virtual assistant, Alexa.Similar to its other efforts, the process of ordering via Echo will first require that Dominos customers set up a Pizza Profile. This is a personal profile where you enter in your name, address, and payment information, as well as your Easy Order preference  that is, your favorite Dominos order  like a large pepperoni, for example.The Pizza Profile is whats needed to take advantage of digital ordering across all the platforms Dominos now supports, which today includesdesktop, mobile, SMS, Twitter, Samsung Smart TVs, Ford Sync, smartwatches like Android Wear and Pebble, and its own nativeapplication (where you can also speak to its virtual assistant, Dom, by voice).Ordering via tweet may have felt a little gimmicky and the process of setting up a Pizza Profile via themobile webwas not as seamless as it first sounded. Dominos also didnt take advantage of Twitters buy button, which made it difficult for first time users to tweet their pizza orders.However, once youve established your Pizza Profile, orders weremuch easier. The same is true for the rest of Dominos digital ordering systems, including now, voice orders via Alexa.Plus, ordering via Amazon Echo  a device thats becoming a hub for your smart home, supporting everything from shopping lists to home automation to news, weather, music and more  makes a lot ofsense.The only trouble is that the feature is still hampered by Alexas need to have requests phrased in a certain way. This is not an issue only for Dominos, but one that plagues the platform as a whole.Amazon tells us that youll need to say Alexa, open Dominos and place my Easy Order to kick off your pizza delivery request. Thats just not good enough. You should be able to tell Alexa to simply order pizza. Alexa should be smart enough to connect the request to the given app. (Or in the glorious future where Dominos is one of many food-ordering apps, Alexa could ask you which app you wanted to use).To use the Dominos app, Echo owners will first need to enablethe Dominos skill from the Amazon Alexa app by linking their account to their Pizza Profile. Then, after the order has been placed, Amazon Echo can also track your order progress upon request.This is done by saying  again, specifically: Alexa, ask Dominos to track my order.Amazon says the feature will go live by Friday  well ahead of time for Super Bowl Sunday, of course.