In a wide-ranging conversation at Disrupt today, Mike George, Amazons Vice President of Echo, Alexa and Appstore discussed the past and future of the companys surprise hit home appliance.George kicked things off by explaining that he wasnt aware of rumors that the project started life as a top-secret AR project. He also dismissed the notion that the Echo was released as a sort of response to the companys oft-maligned shot at the mobile space, the Fire Phone, instead insisting that the company develops many of its products simultaneously.Though, he did add, Weve learned a lot from the Fire Phone.  And by most accounts, the Echo has received a much warmer response. While George wouldnt offer any specific hardware numbers, the exec noted that the device has received 30,000 reviews on Amazon. I think a third of the reviews reference love, he added. I think its really resonating with the user base.George chalked the success up to the products simplicity, removing the need for the user to take adevice from out of theirpocket to enter a query. And while he believes Alexa also helps streamline search, he doesnt see it supplanting Google any timein the foreseeable future.I dont think search as we use it today is going anywhere any time soon, he explained. I do think were making accessing information materially simpler. I think its going to dramatically make it simple. The way search works today, you, the human has to disambiguate the list. We do a lot of work to figure out what you meant and come out with the one right answer youre looking for.The VP also addressed security concerns with regard to surveillance worries and Amazons push to open Alexa up to third parties. You have visual indicators and audio indicators, he said. We save all your utterances to your account so you can see them and delete them. I would say that our SDKs and APIs are secure.If some developer chooses to put something malicious in their code, I have limited control over that. But I do have control over what happens when youre speaking with Alexa.