Amazon has quietly ended its price protectionpolicy on all products except for televisions. The change to the companys policy comes at a time when ahandful of startups have launchedto help consumers automate the process of requesting refunds when prices change on online sites, including Amazon anddozens of other e-commerce stores.For example, newcomer Earny recently debuted a mobile app thathelps consumers get their money back on purchases after price drops. Earny co-founder Oded Vakrat says that, so far, around 50 percent of the refund requests the app handled were for Amazon purchases. Earny also competes withParibus, which offers a similar service both online and on mobile. Meanwhile, older sites like camelcamelcamelallow consumers to track Amazon price drops and receive alerts.Prior to this policy change, Amazons price protection policy was already one of the least friendly to consumers, as it used to provide seven days of price matching on price drops. That means if you purchased an item fromAmazon which the company later marked down, you could request a refund. However, unlike many stores, Amazon only matched its own prices for items, not competitors pricing  with the exception of TVs and cell phones.In comparison, other stores have more pro-consumer policies, including Best Buy, which provides price matching during its return and exchange period (15 days is standard) and Walmart, which offers 90 days of protection, for example.Vakrat says his company noticed Amazons policy change a couple of days after the startups launch in early May  or, around May 7th or 8th, 2016.Initially, Amazon agents honored price-matching requests as usual, saying that if an item is shipped and sold by Amazon, the company has a seven-day price match from the time of delivery. For example, see the screenshot of the email below:But when the new policy went into effect, customer service agents instead said that with the exception of TVs, Amazon.com doesnt offer post-purchase adjustments.Users on Reddit also noticed the policy change around the same time, with some of them even being told by agents thatAmazon never offered its prior price protection policy  that therefunds it issued in the past were an exception.Amazons website also now reflects the new policy, saying that:Amazon.com consistently works toward maintaining competitive prices on everything we carry and will match the price of other retailers for some items.Amazon.com will price match eligible purchases of televisions with select other retailers. For all other items, Amazon.com doesnt offer price matching.The site then links to its policy that explains how it will price match for TV purchases.As for how this change will impact startups like Earny and Paribus? Vakrat optimistically referred to this blow as a great opportunity to show why consumers need startups like Earny to have their back.Amazon insists that its price policy has not changed  it says that its prices are dynamic and that its customer service agents have made exceptions in the past, but that wasnt the rule. In addition, Amazon wants to caution its customers that sharing their credentials with third-parties puts their accounts at risk.Amazon offered the following statement on the matter:Our customers expect to come to Amazon and find the lowest prices and we are obsessed with maintaining that customer trust. We work hard to find the best prices out there and match them for all customers every day.Further, we take customer security very seriously and want to remind them not to share their Amazon account credentials with anyone.