Amazon is testinga new service that could help it and its publishing partners drive more traffic (and, importantly, purchases) from customers on mobile devices. The pilot software is calledMobile Popover, and it is a mobile-onlyrival to top affiliate services Skimlinks and VigLink.The service detectstext links on a webpage to automatically surface an image-centric link which includes details of price, description, ratings and shipping information  and tempt readers into purchasing the item. Clicking the banner takes a user tothemobile web version of Amazonsstore,from there they can open the page in the Amazon app if they have it installed on their device.In the eventthat an item is purchased, the publisher is rewarded with a cut of the purchase. We dont yet have details of the commission percentage for Mobile Popover, although it is likely to be in line withAmazons existing affiliate program, whichpays out between one and 10 percent of each purchase depending on the type of item bought.The integration itself is a simple JavaScript additional that works for all pages. Amazon is trialling Mobile Popoverwith a limited group of initial partners at this point, but it looks like otherpartners can get involved via this link.Mobile is a huge opportunity for online retailers, particularly when you look at Alibaba and businesses in Chinawhich did over 60 percent of their business frommobile devices on Chinas largeste-commerce day.For its part, Amazon recently revealed that approaching 60 percentof its Christmas 2014 holiday transactionscame from mobile, but it is yet to fullytransition its hugely successful business to small screens.Indeed, last week it pulled its consumer-facing wallet app after less than a year in the market. A spokesperson told us that Amazon had learned a great deal from the project, but its fair to sayit hadnt gone as well as the company will have hoped.Skimlinks and Viglink had a run-in with Amazon in Europe last August, when the U.S. giant stopped paying out affiliate money made from auto-tagging from webpages. Amazons ownaffiliate program includes text links, mobile banners, responsive banners and widgets  theres also an option to integrate with third-party blogging platforms.London-based Skimlinks was founded in 2006 and has raised over $9 million in funding to date. A newer entry to the market, four-year-old VigLink is based in San Francisco. It has raisedover $27 million,including an $18 million Series C led by RRE Venturesthat closed last summer.