Its been a while since Ive written about a new media startup raising funding in Asia. There were quite a few last year  including Tech In Asia, Deal Street Asiaand E27  but now we have a story of notefor 2016. FactorDaily, a newly formed startup in India, has raised $1 million to kick-start its efforts to build a consumer tech publication for, and from, India.FactorDaily quietly emerged this year, initiallypublishing stories on Facebook, LinkedIn and Medium before it put up its website  Factordaily.com  this week.The company is helmed by ex-Economic Times pair Pankaj Mishra (CEO/editor-in-chief  and former TechCruncher) andJayadevan PK (managing editor). The core team also includes CTO Titash Neogiand formerBusiness Today editorJosey Johnwho is on board as consulting editor.The objective, Mishra told me over the phone this week, is to createa new kind of digital platform inIndia.We believe we can build The VergeorWired of India, a really scalable digital media company from India, Mishra furtherexplained.Technology is beginning to go mainstream in India, changing the way people are living and doing business. Its both disruptive and transformative.Indians are so hungry [and are] applying technology to how they live, this shift is happening.As storytellers, we think there is a great opportunity if we can ride this wave and capture the story of techs intersection with life, he added.Mishra and co have pulled together a team of 10 that they believe is up to the task. The publications focusis split into four core areas: covering Indias most influential tech companies, exploringhow technology is affecting modern life in the country, lifestyle and gadgets  which isnt focused solely on phone reviews, by the way,  and, finally, future disruption. Video is a major focus of said editorial mission.Even though the companys website is up and running, Mishra said it will continue to publish on other platforms because thats where readers are living, although he teased long-form, immersive feature stories that will exist only atFactordaily.com. There are also plans to launch a Facebook Messenger bot very soon. Beyond serving news on mobile,Neogi said the bot could also handle micro-transactions in the future, which is a fascinating proposition.Initially, the company isnt worrying about monetization, the key is to build a brand and gain a reputation for quality storytelling. (Anyone who reads Indias tech coverage will know that a lot of the legacy medias coverage falls short of their equivalents in the U.S..)Not needing to worry about money is definitely a privilege in media  ad-blocking software, competition from Facebook and other issues threaten the life of independent websites  but it is only temporary. FactorDaily has raised $1 million led byAccel withBlume Ventures and Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma. That money is estimated to last two years at least,but already the team is considering how to make money itself.Top of the list is branded content  FactorDaily has already hired staff to explore this  but events and partial-paywalls (where the micro-payments come in) are options. Furthermore, Mishra said that there has been interest from media  both in India and overseas  wanting tosyndicatecontent, although he is less keen on that option because, too early, it could cannibalize the brand and voice.India has emerged as its own super power, surpassing the U.S. as the planets second largest country of Internet users, while smartphone sales are tipped to continue double-digit growth despite a slowdown in North America, Europe and China. Yet, despite those factors, theres no go-to consumer tech publication in the country. Media is no easy business to crack ordinarily, particularly when you addIndians digital nascency, but there is clearlyan opportunity here. FactorDaily might be the first of a number of ambitious companies wanting to change Indias media landscape and prove it can own its voice, not to mention showthattheres a sustainable model for new media, too.