Assuming the human eye could see them, what would the wireless signals that we are surrounded by in our homes, businesses and cities look like? Nothing like the streamsof ASCII characters depicted in The Matrix, sadly. The reality is more like a sponge, says Cognitive Systems co-founder Taj Manku.If you actually see what RF looks like  like, for example, lets say our eyes could see it it looks very odd. Its almost like looking into a foam, like looking into a sponge. Its hard to explain, he says.The Waterloo, Canada-basedstartup is using algorithms to visualize RF fields in real-time and interpret what any distortions and scattered disturbanceswithin thesefields are such as, for example, a disturbance denoting that a person or pet is moving around a room. Or a door or window is beingopened.Given we are increasingly blanketed in RF fields, the idea is to make use ofthese signals for more thansendingmessages and looking at pictures of cute cats. Specifically for a whole host of applications powered by a devicethat can interpretphysical goings on in anRF coverage area. The startupswireless signal reader deviceis called Amera.Were building a platform that enables you to use wireless signals in just more than communications. Thats basically the core of the platform, says Manku. With that platform we run a bunch of applications depending on the market that were going after.While existing motion detector technologies can be pretty cheap, the idea is for the Amera platform toreplace multiple security-focusedapplications creating a value proposition by consolidating differentfeatures onto a single,scalable platform.We are positioning it as we are replacing with motion and all the contacts in your house. So if you add up the cost of all of that, and if you then take our unit were actually cheaper, saysManku.He also argues there are privacy benefits from using wireless signals as a detection medium, since  unlike a securitycamera  theres no risk of anyone being able to hackintoa live feed of your interior.Amera also avoids the scenario ofmembers of the familyaccidentally or intentionally spying on each other. Albeit the techcan be used to track who is in the house when, by their device IDs. So, for instance, it could be used by parents to keep tabs on kids comings and goings.You can do video surveillance where youre actually looking, or you can do our motion detection which sort of localizes. Obviously most people wouldnt want to stick a camera in their bedroom. But this particular unit, because its not intrusive, is a little bit better  it doesnt reveal a lot, says Manku.Cognitive Systems, whose founding team includes chip designers, wireless networking firmware, DSP and wireless standards expertise, has developedits own chipset to power the platform. The chip, calledR10, containsfour wirelessreceivers anddual multi-vector processors, along withfive custom CPU cores. Itsdesigned to be a more cost-effective alternative tohardware the startupsayswould normally cost tens of thousands of dollars.If you look at the depth of technology thats required  we built a unit before without building our own chip and it cost around $10,000 to $20,000 to build it, with just buying components, he says. If we wanted to do everything in real-time it would be as expensive as $100,000. So the reason why we architected the chip in such a way, and we architected the chip inside the processor in such a way that enables us to run all these applications in real-time but able to deal with all the different wireless standards that are currently out there, and all the different wireless bands. And all the frequencies out there.How accurate is the motion detectingtech? That depends on factors such as how many wireless signal emitting devices a user might have in their home, says Manku. Larger homes may need several of its hardware units to be adequately covered, but they also offer cheaper units for expanding coverage. So only one Amera hub would be needed per installation.You can definitely detect differences of the volume of something and how its sort of moving, and also with regards to where it is approximately in your house or on your property, he adds. We actually will measure all the scattered signals  that are scattered off walls, off everything  and as you walk you change that scattering profile. And well also look at the phase distortion youll introduce.For example somebodys walking around they actually change the phase of the RF. Which is quite sensitive So we have a number of algorithms, and so depending on whats actually happening the weighting of each algorithm is sort of adjusting certain parameters.The startup isuncloaking from stealth today, after some 18 months of tech development, to discuss its first product and its initial market focus:security-centric applications, such as motion sensing and detecting hacking or network spoofing attempts. Its raised an undisclosed amount of funding  saying only that its in the region of tens of millions of dollars  from investors including Quantum Valley Investments, theinvestment fundled by BlackBerry founder Mike Lazaridis.Were building a security type device for home and businesses and enterprise. Basically it does a number of things  one of the applications is it localizes motion. So it will be able to see motion, and the motion is determined by the distortion that happens in the wireless field, explainsManku.And then we have other applications like device ID, what devices are there, what the flow of devices are, how theyre moving around. And that just falls into the category around security.What were doing is were talking about a platform that is scalable, he adds. What were saying is look you put this in your home or your business and it enables you to do motion [detection] but then other applications will start being added onSo theres all these applications that then fall onto the unit.Manku says it will initially be selling a b2b service to security company partners, who will then resell itshardware packaged witha subscription service marketed atconsumers and/or businesses. The kind of notifications a userwould see would depend on the customer facing wrapper the security company partner chooses to apply.To be clear, whicheversecurity firm is proving the end-user service will have access to the encryption keys in order thatthey can decrypt and interpret the data being generated by the Amera to push relevant notifications out to their users. So anyone buying into Ameras system needs to feel comfortable with giving potentially two companies visibility on activity within their home or business network. Although Manku says Cognitive Systems isnt focused on analyzing the end-user data in thisinitial security market application itself.For security, where youre trying to protect your property, to see whats happening, were not in any way tracking anybody. We dont de-encrypt anything, he tells TechCrunch.Mankusays Cognitive Systems is looking to have a service up and running in the first half of next year, and while it says its already working with some distributionand security company partnersits not disclosing namesof these third parties at this stage. The initial product launch will be in theNorth American market. Pricing has not yet been confirmed but there will be a cost for the hardware on top of thesubscription service.The wider vision is for Cognitive Systemsto apply its wireless tech in multiple ways  for example its also building a cloud processing platform called Myst whichit envisages could be used to, for instance, power smart city applications, such as the ability to locate a lost child in a park, say (if the park in question has been kitted out with its devices). Or to generate a spectrum map of an entire region of a city to track people flow  using another bit of chip hardware it makes (a physicsengine, called X10).There are other markets that we have where the Myst network actually does way more processing [than in the initial security market application], adds Manku.We have other markets also like network analysis, understanding what the network is doing. Were not pushing that too much right now because were only about 50 people so were very focused but we do have other markets that were going after in the background.