How can more women be encouraged into technology careers? Its a questionthat is often put to delegatesat tech conferences, but one which continues to be far harder toanswerthan it is to ask. The problem of gender imbalance in tech is systemic and societal in Western nations.This is not a question of ability or talent, given that countries such as China and India have far higher proportionsoffemale engineers. This is aboutexpectations and aspirations.The questionhas topical imperativegiven the gender discrimination spotlight thats been shone on Silicon Valley of late  with high profile lawsuits touching various entities, including most recently VC firm Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers, and tech giants such as Facebook and Twitter. And they are by no means the only tech companies to find themselves dealing with disgruntled former female employees making public claims ofhostile corporatecultures.Last year a raft of major U.S. techcompanies also made theirdiversityreports public, puttingconcretedata on the scopeof theproblem into the public domain. Across the board, leadership roles and technology jobs at all these companies skew heavily in favor of men, with at most just over a quarter of tech company leadership roles filled by women. When it comes to pure-play technology jobs, female involvement dwindleseven further.So what can be done to change attitudes and convince more women to pursue a career intechnology? A roundtable discussion held today in London organized by startup support group Tech London Advocates andchaired by U.K. shadow minister for the Digital Economy, the Labour Partys Chi Onwurah (herself a former telecomsengineer turned politician) heardvarious ideas for fosteringchange from a group of women already working in the tech space. A full list of the women who attended the event can be found at the bottomof this article.The groups ideas boiled down to five priority areas for action:Discussions were wide-ranging, as youd expect from a large group tacklinga complex, systemic issue, but various interesting threads emerged.Companies should bebetter at recognizing when someone is capable of doing a job, rather than relying on women to push themselves forward, suggested Louise Beaumont, head of public affairs and marketing for GLI Finance.That view resonants with the current gender discrimination lawsuit Twitter is facing, brought by a femaleengineer and former employeewho was passed over for promotion and whose complaint is the tech gianthasan opaque promotions process that unfairly favors men.I agree about pushing forward. There are many jobs I didnt apply for, which in retrospect I realize I should have done, said Onwurah, responding to Beaumonts point. But there is also something about changing the corporate culture so you dont need to be blowing your own trumpet all the time. You dont necessarily need to be leaning in in order to be recognized for what youre doing.Beaumont also made the point that companies with more gender balanced senior managementhave been shown to be more financially successful  and that message, that if a companyfails to promote women itcan be shown to be failing itsshareholders, could be usedmore forcefully todrive a business case forfemale promotion.There is quite a lot of data that those companies with more mixed executive teams have better outcomes and better shareprices, she said. As much as we might all feel things very strongly, if people actually understood the impact on their bottom line they would have fewer places to hide.Quotas were also discussed as one possible tool a future government could useto accelerate the pace of change withincompanies  perhaps even using skilled immigration as one avenue to furtherthis agenda, by, for instance, requiring that a certain proportion of developersbrought into the country on specific visas are female. Or indeed using quotas to increase the proportion of female board members.I think it was a French minister who said I dont believe in quotas, I dont likethem, I dont want them, we have to have them, said Onwurah, discussing thelackof women on boards. Im not quite there yet but its the last chance saloon. Its absolutely right that you need more women at just below the executive level [to be in a position to be promoted to boards]. But Ive spent a lot of time talking to Harvey Nash and other recruitment organizations and they are trying to put more women up for jobs but companies are not taking them on.Or companies are still having all male shortlists. So we need to do something about supply but we also need to do something about demand. And I think legislation is a crude measure/way of improving demand but if the industry doesnt sort itself out then governments often are put in a position where they have to take crude measures.A large part of the discussion focused on the challenges of reworkingeducation to engagegirls with STEM subjects and technology careers  with a general view of the benefits of encouraging big and small tech companies to workwith schools to raise awareness and change perceptions abouttechnology careers.Jess Tyrrell, associate director of the Centre for London, suggested it can be even more valuable if youre linking kids withlocal companies  so developing local educational partnerships, and working within alocal context that feels relevant to the children.Young people learn when theyre attached to things that happen around them  especially if you want to increase diversity. Youre not going to travel from Newcastle, necessarily, to go to the Wired Next-Gen conference unless someone takes you. But you might go down the road to a club to do a Rewired State or to do a Code Club or whatever.Regardless of the size of the business what were saying is what we need is these clusters of education-business partnerships locally that can get some saturation into the schools but also things that happen in informal learning, she added.The importance of engaging parents, and mums specifically, was also flagged up  given the close role they play in shaping their daughters expectations and aspirations.Onwurah referenced a recent study that identified a lack ofscience capital asthe biggest factor that stops young girls going into technology. By science capital  generally it means somebody in your family whose in science or technology already. So if your father or mother was a scientist girls had the same proportion, I think, going into science as boys whose parents were in it, she said. So getting science capital into the environment of girls who dont have it now is one thing education can do. But also mums. Dr Sue Black has an initiative called Tech Mums which is trying to address that.Also on the education point, Ghislaine Boddington, CEO of BodyDataSpace, talked up the importance of emphasizing the role thatart and design increasingly plays in technology  so pushing STEAM, not justSTEM  as a way to encourage more girls to get involved.Design particularly will encourage a lot more girls and women to actually see technologyfrom an earlier stage, the opportunities that are out there, the massive growth in design areas in technology, she said, noting the increasing importanceof user interface and UX design in tech.Another threadof the discussion focused on ways tochallenge gender stereotypes and foregroundpositive and well-rounded female-in-tech rolemodels.Jennifer Arcuri, founder of the Innotech Summit, suggested starting a meme to celebrate women who are already working in technology.I love being a feminine woman and interested in make-up and clothes and also love dinosaurs and space. I dont think that there needs to be one exclusive [tech female rolemodel]. Thats the beauty of being a woman. All the wonderful things that come along with femininity and being a woman in this space.If we can show how women are already here doing things you dont need to make a special case for us, we just need to shout from the hilltops a bit better, she added.Onwurah also noted the narrow and hackneyednarratives that are toldabout tech and engineering  suggesting theyare ripe for debunking. One of the clichs about girls when choosing their careers is that they love particularly caring careers. I think engineering is a really caring career. What is more caring than giving clean water or the ability of a parent to talk to their offspring? But its never portrayed like that  its portrayed as hard-hats or as men arguing with each other over formula, she said.Other areas touched on in the discussion included the need to have more women speaking at tech conferences and on panels  and ways to encouragethat to happen, such as raising awarenessof existingdirectoriesof female speakers, such asthe Articulate Network. All-female mentoring lists were also suggested as something that might be helpful.Getting more women involved in startup funding was also touched on  along withpromoting the work of organizations that are already advocating for more female investors to come forward.There are something like 14% of angels in the U.K. are women. One, four. This is because women choose not to do that with their money, addedBeaumont.The discussion was clear on the need tochange the choices that adults of both genders make in order to positively influence the tech gender balance  given those choices filter down to shape theaspirations of girls and boys alike. So no quickfixes, but plenty of food for thought.Heres thefull list of women attending the roundtable:Nikki Watkins, European Leaders
Liz Kanter, SAP
Zoe Steventon, Infectious Media
Ghislaine Boddington, BodyDataSpace
Yashu Reddy, Healthbox
Katarina Derschewsky, Instinctif Partners
Sarah Fetherston-Dilke, Instinctif Partners
Jo Tasker, Technopop
Louise Beaumont, GLIFinance
Jennifer Arcuri, Innotech Summit
Natasha Lomas, TechCrunch
Chi Onwurah, Labour Party
Sarah Luxford, European Leaders
Sofi Newsham, CuppaMe
Olivia Sibony, Grub Club
Anushka Sharma, TechHub
Jess Tyrrell, Centre for LondonAlso attending:
George Bevis, Labour Digital
Russell Shore, Tech London Advocates