Earlier this week, we sat down with venture capitalist Brian OMalley of Accel Partners to talk about where hes shopping now.We also asked OMalley  who was recruited into Accel from Battery Partnersin 2013what it was like to transition between the heavyweight firms, and what he views as the biggest differences between them.More from that candid chat follows. Our conversation has been edited lightly for length.TC: Founders sometimes feelorphaned when acherished VC board member leaves to start his or herown fund or, in rarer cases, is recruited into a new firm. What happened to your portfolio companies when you changed firms?BO: The simplest way to look at [these transitions] is that with the money comes the board seat, and the money is from the firm, not from Brian. So at the end of the day, its the firms call about whether you stay or go.Sameer [Gandhi], whorecruited me in, had[beenrecruited into Accel from Sequoia Partners back in 2008] and gone through a similar process, so I think there was a general attitude of: Look,your entrepreneurrelationshipsarethe one thing you take with you, and your reputation is all you have, so lets erron the side of doing right by the teams youve backed. The thinking was, Ifit takes these startupsa yearto get things figured out, thats okay. At the end of the day, they chose Battery to work with you, and its kind of not fair [to abruptly end those ties].TC: What did Battery think? As things played out, for simplicitys sake, the Battery guys wanted to make sure they had someone involved sooner rather than later. And so some of the board transitions happened sooner than expected, and I just ended up doing more [work with the startups] on the side. It was weird, because you go from this formal person where youre the Series A board member to this person who the[founder]reviews the deck with before the board meeting. A lot of founders can get caught in the middle, where they dont have any [say in the matter], so it was nice to overlap a bit.TheBattery guys were very mindful, too. A lot of them didnt have a lot of board capacity but they stepped up and took over for me.TC: Youre also in the rare position of remaining involved with some of those companies  HotelTonight, Duetto, and Sprig  as an Accel investor, correct?BO: HotelTonight was the easiest.Accel and Battery were both involved from the seed roundandboth kind of co-led the Series A , so each firm had one board seat already and Accels seat wasTheresia [Gouws], who was leaving to start her own fund.So itwas natural that I would switch over to the Accel board seat.Sprig and Duetto were more complicated. Sprigs Series A was coming up right as I was transitioning over [to Accel]. It ended up that Greylock led the Series A but Accel and Battery both participated in the A [round] to continue that relationship. With Duetto,we sort of preempted the Series B, with meleading [its] B [round]about four or five months after I came over to Accel. [Editors note: With OMalley as point person,Battery had joined Duettos seed round and led itsSeries A.]TC: Switching firms, what was harder than you expected, and what was easier?BO: Im not sure anything was easier [laughs]. One is obviously understanding the firm and its reputation with entrepreneurs, as well as with limited partners, because sometimes there are buried bodies there that you might not realize.You also want to understand the relationship that entrepreneurs have with partners from that firm. Are they the first call, or are they along for the ride?Then obviously you want there to be chemistry with the people that youre working with.Another thing I researched was howdecision-making worked, because I wanted to make sure if I was going somewhere, it was somewhere where Id get input from the group but not a placewhere people are formally voting or theres asetup where, at the end of the day, some patriarch has final say on every investment.TC: How did things work at Battery?Alot of Battery investments I did, the ones that were the best performers, were frequently the most controversial. At Battery, you got input from the broader group, but at the end of the day it was your call. I wanted to ensure there was a similar ability [at Accel] to stick your neck out and try to make the right call.TC: What didnt you research and wish you had?BO: Things I didnt research and would advise someone to do is to try understanding thehistory of why things are the certain way. When you think about a firms character, theres a lot of pattern recognitionand muscle memory that goes into it. So my assumption coming over from Battery was that Id keep doing what Id been doing, since things had gone well there. The reality is that different firms have a different chemistry and different goals, andyou need to understand what types of investments will resonate with the crew.TC: Can you be more specific?BO: Accel is naturally more risk-seeking. Itstrying to find companies that have the potential to be break-out winners. Battery is a little more risk-averse;theres more thought going into this concept of dollar-weighted mortality. [Youre always asking] what percent of your dollars are going to go to zero, and so what do you need to get from your winners.It takes time to figure out how to position yourself to be successful the way the new firm defines success versus how you found success historically.TC: Do both firms haveapprenticeship models? You came up through Battery as an associate.BO:Yes.If you look at the partners around the table [at Accel], a lot of them started out as principals.Accel maybe catches people a little bit further down the path, so instead of being in your mid 20s, youre more likely to be in your late 20s, early 30s, so you get recruited in with more experience. But both are set up with the idea that the best partners will grow through the ranks of the firm. In fact, its really just Sameer and me that have come from outside. And at Battery, its also just two people[working forthe firm] from the outside. At both firms, the majority [of their VCs] work their way through the ranks.TC: What interests Accel that wouldnt interest Battery, and vice versa?BO: There are two things we look at [at Accel]. One is purely a financial return and two, we want to be the primary relationship with the entrepreneur. We want to be thatfirst call at 11 oclock at night. Sothere are things that come across our desk and you can see that, Hey,this could be a good money-making opportunity. But thats really not ourcore business, and thats been oneof the lessons for me joining Accel. At Battery, you would look at things and, risk-adjusted, youd say, Hey, this is a good yield, and that was ultimately the final filter. It was: Are we going to make money on this thing?Here, we look at thingsthrough that lens but we also wantto be one of the top firms,not just today, but 10, 20, 30 years down the road. And the way you do that is by being the lead investor in really transformative businesses. Piling on later isnt something we do.Its hard, because you look at some of these companies, you look at thepeople who invested in Snapchat or Twitter, and a lot of times, its easy money because the company is already doing its thing. ButIdidnt get into venture to work in finance.