We dont know ifGoogle will launch its own virtual reality headset at its I/O developer conference this year, but Android N, the next version of the companys mobile operating system, will feature a special mode for VR apps.This new mode gives VRapps exclusive access to the devices processor cores when they arein the foreground. Combined with an improved sensor pipeline and the work Google did on bringing support for the Vulkan graphics API to Android, the company claims the VR mode can bring latency on the Nexus 6Pdown to about 20 milliseconds, which is pretty much the gold standard for mobile VR at the moment (i.e. about what Gear VR operates at).When we started Android, we didnt foresee many use cases, Android VP of Engineering David Burke told me, adding that, with VR, latency is one of the main problems. The motion-to-photon ratio, as Burke calls it, has long been an issue with VR headsets, specifically those of the mobile variety.When the latency between your head movement and the image on the screen changing is too high, you simply dont feel like you are present in the scene (and you are more likely to get sick).Though theres always room for improvement, latency below 20 millisecondshas longbeen seen as the sweet spot for pleasant usage. Oculus CTO John Carmack has said that delays in this range are generally imperceptible. Indeed, even expensive tethered headsets like those from Oculus, HTC and Sony are still roughly in this ballpark though they havemuch more intensive graphics needs.So with this new VR Mode, apps now get full access to all of the power of the phones CPU and GPU to render images as fast as possible. The team also changed how its graphics buffering works by using a single bufferand having the app chase the scan line on the screen.In addition, the VR Mode also uses a process similar to OculussTime Warpingwhere the system first creates an image based on your head movement and then, just before it displays it, checks your current head position and very quickly transforms it to match your current head position.If yourphone doesnt have a low persistence display, though, all of this work is likely for naught because you end up with lots of motion bluras pixels cant change their colors fast enough.While the focus here is clearly on performance, the team also built other functionality into this mode. You will still see notifications, for example, as well as alarms and incoming calls  all of which will display on cards that are now rendered in stereographic 3D.Googles name for its VR platform is Daydream. This includes the VR mode, as well ashardware certification and support for headsets and controllers. Google also built a special version of the Play store to run inside this VR experience and a number of app developers like the New York Times, Netflix and others are already working on Daydream apps and Google is bringing its own Play app, StreetView, YouTube and Google Photos to this platform.The Daydream platform will launch in the fall, but the softwareGoogle will certify phones to be Android VR ready and unsurprisingly, the Nexus 6P, the companys own current flagship phone, is the first to receive this label. Google noted that Samsung, HTC, LG, Huawei, ZTE and others are also releasing VR-ready phones or having older phones certified.