Andreessen Horowitz is making a big move into biotech, and its using a $200 million new fund called the AH Bio Fund  and new general partner, Vijay Pande  to plant its stake in the ground.The fund will be used to invest in mostly early-stagestartupsatthe intersection of computer science and life sciences. Its the first sector-focused fund for Andreessen Horowitz, which is halfway through its main fund, a $1.5 billion vehicle that it announced in March of last year.Pande seems a good choice to lead it. He has the know-how and the connections, having spent the last 16 years teaching chemistry, structural biology and computer science at Stanford University, where he says hell continue spending a very small percentage of my time with hisresearch group there.Pande also knows startups, having been involved in a number of themalready. Last year, for example, he cofoundedGlobavir, a seed-funded infectious disease company. Pande also founded Folding@home, a now 16-year-old distributed computing project for disease research that remains his highest-profile work to date.Asked if it will be hard to say no to some of the many Stanford-related startups now working on health care-focused, machine-learning startups, Pande calls it a kid in a candy store issue, adding that he expects to see a lot [of startups] from Stanford, Berkeley, and M.I.T., among other places. (Conveniently, he notes, he has spent time at all three. He was once a Miller Fellow at U.C. Berkeley and nabbed his PhD in physics from M.I.T.)Andreessen Horowitz isquick to note that Pandewont be making decisions about what to fund on his own.While hemight be the one banging the table about particular investments, decisions ultimately still flow through the group, says managing director Scott Kupor. Its more of a debate process, he explains. A GP can get a deal done that isnt widely embraced, but only afteradequately addressing other partners concerns. Ifafter withstanding the questions and criticisms, a partner is still arguing for why the strengths of a company outweigh itsweaknesses, the firm will move forward, Kupor says.Meanwhile,Pande  who began working with Andreessen Horowitz in apart-time capacity last year  sayspartner feedback is a large part of what attracted him to his new role. He talks about a marketplace on the bio side that general partner (and former OpenTable CEO) Jeff Jordan helped him vet. He mentions looking at a startup in the healthcare and insurance space with another fellow GP, Lars Dalgaard, who founded and long led the HRmanagement software company SuccessFactors (acquired in 2011).Whatever the process,one of those meetings has already turned into a first investment for Pande, who recently led an early roundinTwoXAR, a company thats using big data and proprietary algorithms to generate new drug candidates and assess the efficacy of existing therapeutics.It sounds like we should expect many more to come.Pande sayshe finds three areas particularly interesting: digitaltherapeutics, so-called cloud biology, and computational medicine.Pandes appointment makes himthe firms ninth general partner, following the recent hiring for TrialPay founder Alex Rampell in late August.Pande would have been the tenth GP, but an earlier hire, Balaji Srinivasan, who was brought into the firm in December 2013, has sincebecome theCEO of 21, a bitcoin company that hed cofounded before joining the venture outfit. (Srinivasan was originallyexpected to play an advisory role to 21; Kupor says it was Srinivasansdecision to insteadjoin 21 in as its chief executive earlieryear.)As for the question of whether the partnership mighthire a female partner at any point, Kupor stresses that 50 percent of the firms senior management team is made up of women and that the firm is always looking for the best people both internally and for its portfolio companies.Asked whether new hires likePande and Rampellsuggest that a new fund is around the corner, Kupor insists one isnot. We havent made any decisions yet about when well raise another [fund]. We literally havent even sat down to start thinking about it.