Its heady amounts of money for heady times.AngelList, the investing platform that has scaled to support $205 million in investments across 650 startups including Uber, isaiming even bigger.One of Chinas largest private equity firms is now tapping the platform and the know-how of its angels and syndicates to power a $400 million seed fund called CSC Upshot. The fund will be run by the countrys third-largest private equity firm, China Science & Merchants Investment Management Group, which has $12billion undermanagement.Itslikely the largestfund that has ever existed to fund companies at such an early stage.Typically, the larger a fund gets, the more it must move toward growth- and later-stage investments to earn a return.Firms often raise more money to get more fees. But with our model, we can just add more syndicate leads so we can keep putting money into the same kind of companies at the same stage, said AngelLists co-founder Naval Ravikant. CSC Upshotis about Chinese LPs expanding globally and showing that Chinesecompanies can go out globally and compete in a way that gets them exposure at the very earliest stage, instead of waiting for the Series D round.AngelList has helped the fund pick out 50 of the top leads on the platform, who already have a track record of identifying high-performing deals. Over the past two years, the company has built a Syndicates model that lets well-connected and high-performing angels draw in more capital from their personal network. Today,AngelList has 4,400 investors operating across 165 syndicates.On top of following these 50 leads, CSC Upshot has its own internal tools in theAngelList platform to vote together on whether to follow a deal or not.There are already smaller firms, like the $25 million Maiden Lane fund, that follow a similar model.Ravikant said hes aware of the risksthat poorly-deployedcapitalcould distort and inflate the market.Theaverage valuation on AngelLists platform has risen to $5.1 million in the thirdquarter of this year compared to $4.5 million three years ago.Because of the sheer amount of seed-stage capital that has come into the market in recent years,the odds have become increasingly tough for companies to graduate to aSeries A round, according to Mattermark, which studied cohorts of startups from 2008 until the present day.If its handled poorly,it could change prices and flood the market, Ravikant acknowledged. We were actually offered closer to $1 billion and we thought that was too much money. Even the $400 million will be spread out over six to eight years.Maybe the first year, welldeploy $20 or 30 million as we figure out the model, and then scale it out.The funds come at a time when Chinese companies and investors are putting moremoney to work inside American companies. Alibaba invested $200 million in Snapchat earlier this spring while Chinas Uber-rival Didi Kuaidi put $100 million into Lyft a few weeks ago. Withbroad declines in Chinese public equity markets, capital is flowing and diversifying into other opportunities instead.Whilethe big later-stage deals have been very visible, its more difficult to track the flow of overseas seed-stage capital into companies.Early this year,Chinese LPs startedshowing up in our office. I think everyone who is already in Silicon Valleythink that they already have access to the best Silicon Valley dealsbecause they know so-and-so. They take it for granted, Ravikant said. But if youre sitting inNew York, Boston,Abu Dhabi orChina, you dont have this access.On top of the new CSC Upshot fund, Angellist also has a few other announcements. Theyre opening special purpose vehicles for angels that want to exercisetheir pro rata rights in later rounds, so they can invest more and maintain their ownership stake in a company.Its basically taking the same software that angels use to invest in syndicate deals, and expanding that to later-stage rounds and limited partners.The third piece is a new job hunting app for iOS. AngelList already has 49,000 active candidatesand 8,100 companiesrecruiting on its platform.The new Jobs app has a Tinder-like mechanic where recruiters andcandidates can swipe left or right on each other. AngelList is already supporting 52,000 such matches a month.