Disrupt NY is quickly approaching and we cant wait. Tickets are available now at an extra early bird discount rate for just a few more days and today were announcing the first speakers to headline the show.Aaron Levie, Tristan Walker and Payal Kadakia are all well-known in the startup scene and were excited to have them at Disrupt NY.Aaron Levie rose in prominence after helping found and build Box, a cloud storage and enterprise collaboration company. Box filed to go public in 2014, but delayed its offering in the face of a increasingly difficult market. Levie kept his head down, grew Box for several more quarters, and then led the company to a successful IPO. Challenges still await and were excited to hear his plan on how to keep scaling Box, while also diversifying its feature set to fend of increasing competition from both Google, and Microsoft.Prior to founding his latest startup, Tristan Walker was the Entrepreneur-in-Residence at Andreessen Horowitz and the Director of Business at Foursquare during its heyday. Hes a staple in Silicon Valley known for his hustle and charisma. His latest project strives to simplify health and beauty products for people of color.Called Walker & Company , the company recently closed a $6.9 million Series A from Andreessen Horowitz.Payal Kadakia is the co-founder and CEO of a startup that is quickly transforming the world of fitness. Called ClassPass, the startup is a monthly subscription service that offers unlimited fitness classes at a variety of boutique gyms and studios. Kadakia started her career in finance but soon realized she had to follow her passion for dance. Eventually, she combined her business savvy with her joy for dance to create ClassPass, which has gone from seeing 100 signups in a two-year period to a household name with over $54 million in funding. But things could have gone differently if not for Kadakias persistence after her first startup failed. Were excited to have her at Disrupt NY along with Aaron and Tristan to talk about their experiences.Disrupt NY takes place from May 4-6 at the gorgeous Manhattan Center. General admission tickets are currently available at an extra early bird discount rate. Startups can also register to exhibit in Startup Alley or apply to the Startup Battlefield.More speakers will be announced as the show approaches. As in years past, the roster will be jammed packed with the best and brightest from Silicon Valley, New York City and abroad.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsors@techcrunch.com.