Ant Financial, the Alibaba affiliate that runs Alipay and other financial services in China, has announced atruly huge round of funding today. The company said it has completed its Series B, whichweighs in at a staggering$4.5 billion.The Wall Street Journal previously reported that the company was raising new funding at a valuation of up to $60 billion, and we understand this is the valuation for the deal. Last years undisclosed Series A valued the firm at $45-50 billion.This round is the largest investment in a tech company to date, surpassing the $3 billion that Didi Kuaidi, Chinas homegrown rival to Uber, brought in from investors last summer by some margin. Noordinary round of financing, for sure, but then again Ant Financial is hardly a normal company by any stretch of the definition.Ant Financial was created in December 2014 when it was spun out of Alibaba before the e-commerce giant went public in the U.S. with a record IPO in September 2014. The company has very much piggy-backed on Alibabas vast e-commerce empire which pulled in $5.3 billion in revenue during the last quarter of business  since then.It offers a range of financial services, most prominent of which is Alipay  Chinas most popular online payment service, used to process payments on Alibabas sites  but its portfolio also includes a micro-loans program and Alibabas digital bank, MyBank.All told, it claims to reach 450 million users, most of whom likely interact with Alipay, but Ant Financial puts focus on enabling people in remote areas who have limited access to traditional financial services. It says its payment, insurance and wealth management services reach 140 million peoplein rural China, while MyBankhas dished out 20 million loansto SMEs and entrepreneurs.Beyond China, Ant Financial has moved into India via its investment in Paytm, an e-commerce and payments player that Alibaba has also invested in. Ant Financial said that at the turn of 2016, Paytm had 122 million users and was processing 52 million transactions a month, a number that has grown 230 percent year-on-year.Ant Financial is tipped to go public in the not-too-distant future. A company representative declined our questions on when and where an IPO might take place, but vice president Cyril Han told the Wall Street Journal that hehopes to list in both domestic and offshore stock exchanges in the future.This could be the last chance for investors to get in on the action privately, so its notable that Ant Financial summoned some big names with plenty of strategic value for this recordround. Sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp (CIC)and CCB Trust, a subsidiary of China Construction Bank, joined as new investors, while insurance firms, includingChina Life, China Post Group, China Development Bank Capital and Primavera Capital Group returned as existing backers.Ant Financial said that it will work with CIC to expand its footprint overseas to provide equal access to financial services globally. You can bet that this growth will be in tandem with Alibaba, which is increasing looking at new growth opportunities outside of China.