Alibabas subsidiarycompany Ant Financial confirmed today that itclosed a Series A funding round which includes investment from Chinas largest pension fund, theNational Social Security Fund (NSSF). The deal was previously reported by Bloomberg.While it isnt a traditional Series A  because most startuparent formed as an offshoot froma multi-billion e-commerce juggernaut  the deal is eye-watering.Ant Financial said the undisclosed round included capital from major Chinese insurance corporations and other investors. TechCrunch understands from sourcesclose to Ant Financial that it values the company at $45-$50 billion.The investment from NSSF  which we hear included a substantial discount  brings on an interesting strategic investor. Chinas government recently relaxed regulations onhow thefund can invest, and this deal with Ant Financial is the first such investment that NSSF has undertaken since that loosening. Its also a huge validation for the business, and could help Ant Financial with legal and regulatory hurdles in the future.Ant Financial, which was spun out Alibaba before the e-commerce firms blockbuster U.S. IPO last year,operates a series of financial businesses focused on helping the small guy. Its roster of services which it claimed are used by 400 million active usersincludes Alipay(the online payment services that handles three times the volumes of PayPal), investment service Yue Bao, online credit scoring service Sesame Credit, loan programs and newly-launched digital bank MYBank. The company added thatits micro loan scheme has lent some 400 billion CNY ($65 billion) to over 1.6 million SMEs and entrepreneurs to date.In addition to those services, Ant Financial recentlymoved into online-to-offline and logistics when teamed up with Alibaba to plough nearly $1 billion into a new joint venture called Koubei.Now it is looking overseas too, after confirmingplans to offer financial services outside of China. The company has already invested outside of its home turf  it bought a 25 percent stake in IndiasPaytm, in a deal valuing thepayments firm at over $1 billion  and that could continue following this Series A round.Ant Financial isnt alone in taking a Chinese tech giants empire from commerce and internet services into digital finance. Rival Tencent offers a digital bank of its own and providesfinancial services, while fellow e-commerce firm JD.com recently partnered with U.S.-based ZestFinance to offer micro loans to SMEs and entrepreneurs in China.