Apigee, acompany that helps organizations build and manage API connectors, went public this morningat $17 per share, briefly jumpingto $20 per share before closingat $16.68, down 1.88 percent in its first day of regular trading. After-hours, the company isflat.The company sold 5,115,000 shares in its IPO, raising $87M according to its CEOChet Kapoor.It trades under the symbol APIC. Apigee is worth around a half billion dollars.As a firm, Apigee has seen growing revenues and shrinking losses. In the half year period concluding inJanuary of 2015, the company generated a net loss of $26.8 million on revenue of $32.61 million. In the year-preceding half-year period, Apigee lost $32.2 million on revenue of $23.4 million. The companys margins have improved, to put it mildly.Apigee offered its IPO underwriters the option of buying767,250 additional shares within 30 days at itsIPO price of $17.00/share. However, given that the company is currently underwater from thatprice, it isnt clear if the banks will pull the trigger on the exercise option  buying dollars for more than a dollar apiece isnt great unit economics.Going public represents the end of a long journey for Apigee, which launched in 2004 and raised an impressive $173 million before going public.CEO Kapoor believes taking the company public gives his organizationgreater credibilitywith customers and partners. From a practical standpoint, it provides a pileof cash that could be used tofor acquisitions. He also intends toexpand sales and marketing and pour more investment into research and development.The company employsahybrid license-subscription model with 15 to 20 percent licenses and theremainder subscriptions. Italso earns an additional 15 to 20 percent of the total company revenue from professional services.Apigees product family is composed of three products: Apigee Edge its flagship product for API management,Apigee Insights, its predictive analytics product and Apigee Link for device makers to create API connectors for Internet of Things scenarios.The company typically works with in-house developers or global partners such as SAP, InfoSys or Accenture on implementation. Customers wantto deliver connected experiences to employees, partners and customers, Kapoorsaid. He noted Walgreens as an example.As Walgreens saw increasing use of smartphones, it also noticed thatits picture printing business greatly diminishing. Instead of ceding the business, it developed a photo printing API using the Apigee product, buildingsmartphone apps to leverage the new technology. The decision not only saved itspicture printing business, Walgreenswas able to exposethe API to channel partners and growits revenue, according to Kapoor.The company has 400 employees and has headquarters in San Jose with additional offices in London and Bangalore, India.