With app storesbeing as crowded asthey are,understanding mobile distribution and the app economy is more important now more than ever.Andin less than twoweeks, well sit down with App Annies new head of research Danielle Levitas and Sequoia Capitals Alfred Lin at TechCrunch Disrupt New York.Since discovering AppAnnie, Ive used it relentlessly to discover newupcoming apps, find out which ones are starting to fall off a cliff and keep tabs on general trends in the App Store.But reporting aside, App Annie has a whole suite of tools for app developers and companies. And it turns outtheres a huge business behind measuring the usage and performance of mobile the company raised $55 million in a funding round earlier this year, which included Sequoia Capital.Levitas joined at the beginning of Aprilas the companys SVP of research and analysis. That team is tasked with divining insights and trends from the wealth of mobile app activity  for both free users and the companys paid subscribers. Prior to App Annie, she spent 20 years in the industry as an analyst and most recently, group vice president and GM of IDCs Mobility, Digital Media & Consumer research team.Shell be joined by Lin, who sits on the board of companies like Airbnb and Houzz, and before that he was the chief operating officer of Zappos until 2010.The term frothy is thrown around a lot in the venture community these days. And its for good reason: more than ever startups are raising massive funding rounds at even more massive valuations. (Just look at Zenefits, which could hit a valuation more than $3 billion thats just a little more than two years old.)Sequoia has invested in plenty of so-called unicorns  like Dropbox, Square and Evernote. But they also invested in a mobile messaging startupcalled WhatsApp that ended up being bought by Facebook for $19 billion.And manyof the highest-valued companies in the world are, no surprise, centered around apps  all of which need to figure out how to improve and keep track of the competition. It sounds like App Annie might be on to something, and well have plenty of questions for the pair in just a few weeks.Danielle and Alfredwill join other notable Disrupt NY speakers, including TindersSean Rad, FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, and Vines Jason Mante.The show runs May 4-6 at the historic Manhattan Center. Tickets are still available.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsors@techcrunch.com.