Apple just announced that it has sold 13 million iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus devices over its first weekend. Its a new record for the company as it sold 10 million units last year, and 9 million units in 2013.Compared to last year, Apple released the iPhone 6s in 6s Plus in China on day one. It took a couple of weeks last year before the company released the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in China. But in 2013, the iPhone 5s and 5c were available in China on launch day, meaning that it still represents a big improvement compared to two years ago.To give you a bit of perspective, over the past three days, Apple has sold 3,000 phones per minute, or 50 devices per second. This is a massive number. Apple didnt break out sales numbers under the new iPhone Upgrade Program, which lets you buy a phone as a service. Its a 24-month payment plan with an option to upgrade for a new iPhone every year that starts at $32 model for the lowest iPhone 6s model.Apple also announced that the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus will be available in 40 additional countries on October 9, starting with Italy, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Taiwan. Overall, Apple will sell the new iPhone devices in 130 countries before the end of the year. Previously, the company had already announced that it was on track to beat last years record given the number of pre-orders.As a reminder, the iPhone 6s brings many under-the-hood improvements. It comes with a much better camera, a significantly faster chip, snappier Touch ID, and 3D Touch. In particular, 3D Touch is a technology that has been five years in the making and may change the way you use your iPhone.The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus will roll out in the following countries on October 9:Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Greenland, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Taiwan. On October 10, countries include Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates