Apples general counsel Bruce Sewell will testify before a congressionalJudiciary Committee tomorrow. The hearing has been convened to discuss what is beingdescribedas The Encryption Tightrope  subtitle: Balancing Americans Security and Privacy. Sewellsopening statement can be read below in full.FBI director James Comey will also testify.Thereason for the hearing is the publicity surrounding an FBI-induced court order relating to an iPhone 5c used by one of the San Bernardino shooters. A judge in California ordered Apple to comply with the FBIrequestto create a modified version of its OS with intentionally weakenedsecurity features tomake it easierfor the agencyto crack thedevices passcode via brute force techniques.Apple hasbeen appealing the court order,warning thatthe court orderwould set a dangerous precedent, and arguing it wouldnot just be used to unlockone device, as the government claims. But rather that state agencies would seek to apply the same security bypass tomultiple cases (as we wrote last week there are 12 other active cases involving iPhones or iPads and government unlocking requests).In other words, Apples argument is thatthe FBIsdemand wouldeffectively create a backdoor into iOS, withtherisk that this yet-to-be-created more vulnerable version of the softwaremightfind its way into the wild  risking the data of millions of iOSusers in the process.The long-in-the-tooth general purpose legal mechanism used by the FBI to try to force Apples hand is calledtheAll Writs Act (AWA).Today a New York judge weighing the US governments use of the AWAin another case involving a locked iPhone has ruled in Apples favor, denying a request to compel Apple to unlock the device in question. Apple will be buoyed by that ruling, which puts yetmore emphasis on the congressional hearings that are about to kick off. Point being, systematic state use of a general purpose Writ for such aspecific purpose has a distinctly unconstitutional pong to it  hence the NYjudge seeking to push lawmakers off of thismurkier area (as he has previously dubbed it) andcreate some legal certainty, one way or another.A healthy and public debate is also what Apple has been calling for since the FBI made the San Bernardino request case public. Sewell will re-iterate this sentiment in his opening statement tomorrow, arguing that: The American people deserve an honest conversation around the important questionsstemming from the FBIs current demand.He will also describe the case as an extraordinary circumstance, and note that the US government has spenttens of millions of dollars  through the Open Technology Fund and other domestic governmentprograms  to fund strongencryption, thereby underlining the privacy vs security schizophrenia that apparently keeps afflicting governments when politicians and state security agencies clash with increasing use ofencryption.Encryption is a good thing, a necessary thing, Sewell will argue. We have been using it in our products forover a decade. As attacks on our customers data become increasingly sophisticated, the tools weuse to defend against themmust get stronger too. Weakening encryption will only hurtconsumers and other well-meaning users who rely on companies like Apple to protect theirpersonal information.He will also foreground whats at stake on the privacy front, invokingthe hundreds of millions of law-abiding people whose iOS devices are used to store what he will describe as the most intimatedetails of their daily lives  whether thats photos, private conversations, health care or financial information or location data.Hisopening statement can be read in full below:Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Its my pleasure to appear before you and theCommittee today on behalf of Apple. We appreciate your invitation and the opportunityto be part of the discussion on this important issuewhich centers on the civil liberties atthe foundation of our country.I want to repeat something we have said since the beginning  that the victims andfamilies of the San Bernardino attacks have our deepest sympathies and we strongly agree thatjustice should be served. Applehas no sympathy for terrorists.We have the utmost respect for law enforcement and share their goal of creating asafer world. We have a team of dedicated professionals that are on call 24 hours a day,seven days a week, 365 days a year toassist law enforcement. When the FBI came to usin the immediate aftermath of the San Bernardino attacks, we gave all the information wehad related to their investigation. And we went beyond that by makingApple engineersavailable to advise them on a number of additional investigative options.But we now find ourselves at the center of an extraordinary circumstance. TheFBI has asked a Court to order us to give them something we dont have. To create anoperating system that does not exist  becauseit would be too dangerous. They areasking for a backdoor into the iPhone  specifically to build a software tool that canbreak the encryption system which protects personal information on every iPhone.As we have told them  and as we have told the American public  buildingthat software tool would not affect just one iPhone. It would weaken the security for all ofthem. In fact, just last week DirectorComey agreed that the FBI would likely use thisprecedent in other cases involving other phones. District Attorney Vance has also said hewould absolutely plan to use this on over 175 phones. We can all agree this is not aboutaccess to just one iPhone.The FBI is asking Apple to weaken the security of our products. Hackers andcyber criminals could use this to wreak havoc on our privacy and personal safety. Itwould set a dangerous precedent for governmentintrusion on the privacy and safety of itscitizens.Hundreds of millions of law-abiding people trust Apples products with the most intimatedetails of their daily lives  photos, private conversations, health data, financial accounts, andinformation about the userslocation as well as the location of their friends and families. Some ofyou might have an iPhone in your pocket right now, and if you think about it, theres probablymore information stored on that iPhone than athief could steal by breaking into your house. Theonly way we know to protect that data is through strong encryption.Every day, over a trillion transactions occur safely over the Internet as a result ofencrypted communications. These range from online banking and credit card transactions to theexchange of healthcare records,ideas that will change the world for the better, andcommunications between loved ones. The US government has spent tens of millions of dollarsthrough the Open Technology Fund and other US governmentprograms to fund strongencryption. The Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technology, convened byPresident Obama, urged the US government to fully support and not in any way subvert,undermine, weaken, or make vulnerable generally available commercial software.Encryption is a good thing, a necessary thing. We have been using it in our products forover a decade. As attacks on our customers data become increasingly sophisticated, the tools weuse to defend against themmust get stronger too. Weakening encryption will only hurtconsumers and other well-meaning users who rely on companies like Apple to protect theirpersonal information.Todays hearing is titled Balancing Americans Security and Privacy. We believe we can,and we must, have both. Protecting our data with encryption and other methods preserves ourprivacy and it keeps peoplesafe.The American people deserve an honest conversation around the important questionsstemming from the FBIs current demand:Do we want to put a limit on the technology that protects our data, and thereforeour privacy and our safety, in the face of increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks? Shouldthe FBI be allowed to stop Apple, or anycompany, from offering the American people thesafest and most secure product it can make?Should the FBI have the right to compel a company to produce a product itdoesnt already make, to the FBIs exact specifications and for the FBIs use?We believe that each of these questions deserves a healthy discussion, and anydecision should be made after a thoughtful and honest consideration of the facts.Most importantly, the decisions should be made by you and your colleagues asrepresentatives of the people, rather than through a warrant request based on a 220 year-old-statute.At Apple, we are ready to have this conversation. The feedback and support werehearing indicate to us that the American people are ready, too.We feel strongly that our customers, their families, their friends and theirneighbors will be better protected from thieves and terrorists if we can offer the very bestprotections for their data. And at the same time,the freedoms and liberties we all cherishwill be more secure.Thank you for your time. I look forward to answering your questions.