Following the consolidationof Apples developer programs under one roof, the company has also made a slight, but perhaps notable, change with regard to the number of devices developers can register under their accounts. Previously, developers were able to register 100 individual devices, but that number has now been increased to 500 with each platform now receiving 100 device slots apiece. Each platform, meaning iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Apple Watch, and Apple TV. Wait, whats that? Apple TV?Yes, Apple has now allotted 100 slots for Apple TV alone  a software platform that doesnt yet include its own App Store, though one has long been rumored to be in the works.In fact, word has it that Apple has been working on an upgrade to Xcode which would include developer tools that helpapp makers build third-party applications for Apple TV. However,according to The New York Times, Applesplans to introduce a new version of Apple TV at this years WWDC were reportedly postponed because the product was not yet ready. The forthcoming Apple TV hardware is said to include under-the-hood improvements as well as an App Store of its own and an Internet-based TV service, the latter of which has all but been confirmed. (Apple TV has supported TV apps, but only from select partners, not a full App Store.)Developers use theregistration slots Apple provides to test their apps ahead of an App Store public launch,as well as to test new versions of Apple software, like iOS releases.That Apple TV is listed as a supported device type for developers to register with Apple is not exactly new, however, or whats important to noteabout this change. As several developers have already now pointed out, Apple TV was included as an option here in the past. Thats because developers could install beta builds of Apple TV software, and they would need to add Apple TV to a device list for the purposes of AirPlay beta testing.Apple TV apps are coming pic.twitter.com/wOR98JOY6e Ouriel Ohayon (@OurielOhayon) June 9, 2015One could argue that giving each platform an even 100 slots couldhave just been done for simplicitys sake. But if its only meant for beta testing Apple TVsoftware, 100 slots for Apple TV seems a little high. At least, thats thetheory.Instead, what seems likely is that Apple has made the change in advance of its intention to open up the Apple TV platform to third-party applications and games. Presumably, once developers are able to build apps for Apple TV, they would need a larger number of testing slots  something thats more on par with other devices, like iPhone and iPad, for example.MacRumors, which reported on the increased limits after developersbegan tweeting about the changes to their account, noted also that some developers were bumped up to 200 devices a couple ofyears ago, but the increase to 500 devices is certainly new and more of a universal change.The device limit increase is far from being definitive proof of Apple TVs App Store plans, but its at least another hint of whats to come.