Apple has released a series of four videos today that show  explicitly  exactly what the Apple Watch can do, how it will do it and why you might be interested in buying one.If it seems to be a bit late in the cycle to get something like this out, I agree. Apples early marketing around the Watch has focused mainly on its construction, originality and possibilities for customization. Thats not a bad thing at all, but its much more suited to a product thats entering an upgrade cycle. The last few years of iPhone or iPad releases is a good example of this. If youre going to convince someone they might like to purchase the new one youre going to highlight differentiating design, color, materials or functionality.For a completely new category of product, Apple had to dig back  all the way to the original iPhone  to remember how to position these things. Its probably difficult to recall, but the first iPhone was such a radical departure from anything that had come before it that Apple had a ton of explaining to do.Part of that explaining was laying out the features and functions (and their theoretical usefulness) in a series of to-the-point instructional videos like this one. They went over things that seem second nature now: deleting a voicemail, reading and flagging email, browsing the web in a real web browser.The instruction was largely based on the fact that we were moving from buttons to a brand-new interface: multi-touch.So a set of four videos, which will be expanded in the future, that explains very plainly how Apple Watch features work and why youd want to use them makes a lot of sense. The Watch is also introducing the new Digital Crown and Force Touch mechanisms to Apples interface lexicon. Those new interaction methods add additional possibility, but also need an introduction that ties them in with explicit actions like sending emoji, checking your calendar or transmitting your heartbeat.Another thing that is emphasized heavily throughout these videos is how features like glances, Force Touch and the very nature of a watch will enable you to interact with apps or messages quickly and get back to what you were doing before. This very, very strong selling point for the Apple Watch has thus far been missing from its marketing  including during both of its on-stage appearances.Wevemade the point here on TechCrunch that the primary early selling fulcrum of the Apple Watch would be that it would save you time by letting you use your phone less. Apple has apparently caught on to this sales bullet and project lead Kevin Lynch recently spent a lot of time emphasizing it during an interview with Wired.People want that level of engagement, Lynch says. But how do we provide it in a way thats a little more human, a little more in the moment when youre with somebody?That point is made in both straightforwardand subtle ways throughout these videos, and I would expect to continue to see it highlighted as Apple gets into the full swing of selling the devices. The long-term possibilities of Apple Watch as a lubricant are another matter entirely  but thats down the road and there is plenty of time to paint that picture later. For now, the metric is still (or finally, depending on how you look at it) time saved.