Were looking for college students who love startups and reading TechCrunch to join our team as paid summer interns.This isnt your typical internship. As soon as you set up your company email address, TechCrunch will let you write and publish your own stories. Whether its a big funding announcement or profiles of the next Y Combinator batch, youll be talking to some of the biggest newsmakers in the tech industry and sharing your opinion on one of Silicon Valleys most influential blogs.As an intern, youll be writing as much as you can. Youll work on a variety of projects, from blog posts to videos. Youll have many opportunities to write about the next big startups, but alsoto write about tech news as it relates to your other interests, whether they lie in fashion, sports or politics.Were looking for interns who are independent and self-motivated with good news judgement. We need people who write quickly and accurately, who already live and breathe tech news.As an intern at TechCrunch, I was given more responsibilities than at other media internships and the freedom to pursue my own interests. I often got to write multiple posts a day and attend exciting events in Silicon Valley, from demo days to hackathons at companies like Facebook.Writers and editors at TechCrunch helped me find stories and helped me grow as a writer with helpful edits and advice. They were supportive of me when I suggested posts related to my interests in politics. But more importantly, they pushed me to also go outside of my comfort zone and find my own voice in my work.When I got my internship offer last spring, I was beyond excited to start what I knew would be an incredible professional opportunity. At the time, I could not anticipate how great it would be to jointhe TechCrunch team. Aside from the adorable office pets, amazing snacks and Nerf gun fights, I spentten weeks learning from some of thesmartest journalists in San Francisco and gained invaluable mentors.So if you love tech newsand want to join some of the coolest nerds around, send in an application!Preference will be given to applicants with previous internship experience who exemplify an interest in tech news. Current college juniors and seniors are preferred, but exceptional sophomores will be considered. Interns can work in TechCrunchs New York or San Francisco offices. The internship runs 10 weeks during the summer, with a flexible start date.To Apply:Send a short email with the subject line Internship about why you want to work for TechCrunch to cat@techcrunch.comby 5p.m. PST on Thursday, April 23. Please attachyour resume and six links to published articles. Feel free to also send any questions to that address!