Apples Eddy Cue has just announced that Apple Music will change its plan and pay royalties to artists even during its three-month free trial for users, following Taylor Swifts public complaint about the policy. She had planned to withhold her hit album 1989 from the service in protest.Weve learned that Apple made this decision to change its policy today. It will be paying an undisclosed royalty rate on a per stream basis to artist for the whole time that users are on the free trial.Apple had planned to offer users a three-month free trial of its upcoming streaming Apple Music service that launches June 30th. However, it had negotiated deals with the major labels to not pay rights holders royalties during these trials and instead pay a tiny bit more in royalty rates afterwards.Now in the wake of intense negative PR stemming from Swifts blog post that bashed the policy, including my post earlier today whereI wrote Apple is acting greedy and should pay up,the tech giant has recanted.The move should help it improve the public perception of Apple Music and potentially pull in some artists that were boycotting the old payout structure. Those include artists managed by Beggars Group, which put out its own letter to Apple last week denouncing the royalty-free trial.Its unclear what Swift and Beggars Group will do now that their demands have been met, though Swift did just tweet her thanks for everyone who supported her conviction, saying I am elated and relieved. Thank you for your words of support today. They listened to us.Swift previously pulled 1989 from Spotify citing philosophical disagreements with its free ad-supported tier. Spotify also offers short free trials and extremely cheap $0.99 three-month trials. But a source with knowledge of Spotifys deal structure tells me it already pays artists royalties during all its trial periods. Its quite possible that both will pay artists at a lower rate during free trials than during normal subscriptions.While it might be nice to think of Swift as a champion for all musicians here, Bloomberg Businessweek did recently report that she was in talks for exclusives with Apple Music. Those seem to have never come to fruition, so its a little suspicious that shes now swinging so far the other way.This morning Iargued for why Apple should invest in the future of Apple Music by being more generous with artists and paying royalties during its trials. Apparently Apple agrees on some level.Check out that articlefor more on why this change of heart is a smart move for Apple.Essentially: