
Chris Young is managing general partner at Revel Partners.The trend toward direct connections between video content creators and their audiences is well underway, but thenewAppleTVcould finally push that trend into the living room. Although direct-to-viewer relationships are the norm on the web, most premiumTVcontent in the living room still passes through a cable television gatekeeper.DoesApplefinally have enough momentum to break the grip of the content middlemen for good?Two months ago,Appleexecutives got on stage and proclaimed that The Future ofTVis Apps. This should be a surprise to no one. Consumer demand foran unbundled living-roomexperience may have finally reached a groundswell. Mainstream audiences are realizing whatgeeky cord cuttersand younger viewers have known all along: whileTVshows have gotten better, cableTVinterfaces and subscription bundles have become more frustrating. As more consumers become accustomed to browsing Netflix-style interfaces, the cableTVexperience seems downright prehistoric.Millennial viewers barely distinguish between YouTube,TV, social networks and video messaging. Now that group is aging into the living room and theyre not interested in taking astepbackward in theirmediaconsumption experience just because they bought a couch.App-basedTVis no longer atechnology problem; its a business problem. Roku, ChromeCast and previousAppleTVs are all inexpensive devices that handle streaming video with aplomb. But up until this year, cableTVoperators have had a monopoly on first-run premium content, without which any newdevice is destined to be relegated to a secondary role. Achieving content parity with cable offerings is a prerequisite forAppleTV, or any device, to graduate from an add-on box to the primary user interface for television.Applewants tvOS, and its app-based marketplace, to become the default user interface for the living room. But without access to the same content, they cant cut out the cable TV middleman. So for now,Appleis paving a path around them, bolstered by tent-pole offerings like HBO Now and, more recently, Showtime, in addition to a la carte offerings on iTunes.A year ago, brands like MLB, which offers a compelling streaming service, were the exceptions. But now that HBO and Showtime have opened the floodgates,mediaproperties without a streaming-only option suddenly seem like outliers.These key content brands are necessary to validate the platform in the same way the original iPhone had to offer top-notch calling, texting and voicemail features as the price of entry into the market. But eight years later, legacy phone features arent whats driving iPhone purchases and upgrades. Instead, its the rich selection of apps and tight integration withApples ecosystem that keeps consumers loyal. Likewise, the real platform stickiness forAppleTVwill depend, not on traditionalTVcontent, but onnewentertainment apps born out of tvOS-specific capabilities and interaction models.The success of desktop software giants like Adobe and Microsoft didnt automatically translate to mobile. Theyre still playing catch-up, while newer mobile-first companies like Instagram, Rovio and Snapchat have topped the download charts and built billion-dollar valuations.As of this writing,7 out of the top 10free appson tvOS App Store are fromTVchannels. But thenewAppleTVhas the potential to create a level playing field for all content apps  not just ones from largemediabrands.Users can choose which apps get to occupy the home screen, giving any brand, big or small, an opportunity to earn top-of-mind status. This is good news for long-tail content producers seeking a direct relationship with viewers and competing for audience with the big boys.Inmedia, as well as software, incumbents tend to resist adapting their legacy business models, whilenewentrants have no such limitations. Scrappy upstarts are often first to embrace new distribution platforms, and theres little reason to think that theAppleTVecosystem wont offer the same disruptive opportunities fornewplayers in the living room as the iPhone did for mobile.Back in 2008, the massive growth ofApples App Store wasnt a foregone conclusion. But this time around brands understand the value of direct-to-consumer video, and consumer demand for a better experience is off the charts.Companies like 1 Mainstream and Zype have already announced services that allow video content creators to build and publish their ownAppleTV apps, while advertising platforms like The Trade Desk and AppLovin are focusing heavily on programmatic solutions for monetizing content(Disclosure: Revel Partners is an investor in both Zype and The Trade Desk).Its not just smaller players in the over-the-top streaming-video market. Amazons recent $500 million acquisition of Elemental Technologies and Ciscos purchase of 1 Mainstream (in a deal rumored to be over $100 million) illustrate how seriously tech giants view the space.In arecent interview, Eddie Cue tossed out a simple idea: real-time audience measurement that could allow news producers to extend the length of a live segment based on viewer interest. This level of massive real-time audience participation would still represent a huge shift from the way television operates today. Along with live sports, real-time interactivity might be one of the only ways to keep increasingly fragmented, time-shifted audiences glued to a screen at the same time.Beyond that, we could see interactive narratives that merge the best aspects ofTVshows and games. Award-winning projects likeHer Storyare already blurring those lines. Imagine live crowdsourced improv, user-directed narratives, shows with built-in social interaction features or political debates that use Fruit Ninja-style swipes and slices for voting.Theres no reason to think that futureTVapps will be limited to passive viewing experiences. Its more likely that the majority will be mixtures of both code and content. We know that the future ofTVis apps; we just dont know what those apps look like yet.