If youre like me, you bought an Apple Watch before Apple announced the Herms special edition in September, but youve fallen in love with the Apple Watch Herms since then  yes, the Herms Watch looks awesome. And yet, its hard to justify buying a new Apple Watch if you already have one. Apple will now let you buy Herms bands separately. The company is also adding a new collection of single tour and double tour Herms bands.The Apple Watch Herms has been a rare, expensive fashion accessory as bands are going to be priced accordingly, from $340 to $690. But its still going to be cheaper to buy a stainless steel Apple Watch with a nylon band ($549 or $599) and a separate Herms band.The Apple Watch Herms is available in selected Apple Stores, Herms stores, a few other stores (such as Colette) and on Apples and Herms websites. I couldnt find the bands online just yet, but its coming. Apple is probably going to roll out the bands with the new variants on April 19.Single tour bands in 38mm and 42mm are going to cost $340. All double tour variants are going to be priced at $490. And finally, the iconic brown leather Herms Cuff band is going to cost $690.Apple is also adding new colors on April 19. In addition to brown, gray, black, red and blue, Herms is going to produce green, white, orange and dark blue bands (bleu paon, blanc, feu and bleu saphir).Orange is the dominant color in Herms branding, so the company is finally adding orange to the lineup. The handcuff band is going to be available only in brown. Double tour bands are only available for the 38mm Apple Watch.And finally, youll still be able to buy a complete style with a brown leather band and a stainless steel Apple Watch. Herms has been using brown leather with a white seam for its mechanical watches. The company is reusing the same design paired with an Apple Watch. The seam on other bands shares the same color as the band itself (except the Bleu Jean blue one). Herms is making the straps in its French tannery.Watch bands are a key element behind Apples strategy when it comes to the Apple Watch. Many users already swap their bands regularly. If the company can refresh the band lineup regularly, enthusiastic customers are going to buy new bands.In addition to this ever-changing trend element, the Apple and Herms partnership is smart as it legitimizes the Apple Watch as a fashion accessory. And its working for me because I think the Herms bands look gorgeous. So Ill have to revisit this tweet from OctoberBarely managed to leave the store without an Herms Watch. Until next time. Romain Dillet (@romaindillet) October 5, 2015