Apple is frequently bashedfor not being first to the punch with an idea. And if thats the way your mind works there wasno shortageof material to riff off of coming out ofthelatest Cupertino gearfest this week.From thatsupersized iPad Pro(Microsoft Surface Pro got theresooner, yo); tothetablet cover with the built in keyboard (Microsoft Surface keyboard cover, yo!); or the Apple Pencil stylus (see, er, Microsoft Surface Pen, or to a lesser degree Samsungs Galaxy Note stylus-packing phablet-range, to name just twoof themore recent styli tabs); or  on the software side  iOSs newLive Photos: aka photos that arent actually photos but recordsound and movement too (Nokia was on this tipback in 2014 with Cinemagraph,and Living Photos. More generally, animated GIFs have been enliveningphotos, since, well practically the dawn of Internet time); or Apples voice assistantnow having an expandedability to bealways listeningfor a Hey Siri prompt, not just when devicesare plugged into a power source (Motorola launched a touchless control for voice commands on its Moto X handset back in 2013).Even Apples flagship reveal  the3D Touch addition to thetouchscreens on itsnew iPhones  could be said to have been (vaguely) prefigured by BlackBerry attempting that ill-fated clickable touchscreen all the way back in 2008.Add to that,the peek and pop interface additions which3D Touch ushers in to iOS on these iPhones are a littlereminiscent of gesture-based UI elements found atthe also-ran edges of the smartphoneOS landscape  such as BlackBerrys next-gen BB10 OS, and evenfacets of Jollas Sailfish OS. (Indeed, with some of the new gestures that 3D Touch introduces I couldnt help thinking Apple should probably *ehem* borrow Sailfishs pulley menu selection mechanism too, to eliminate an additional tap)Pointing out thatAppleis a copy-cat is easy, but it also misses the wider point. And that is: design, design, design. Apples informal motto is it just works. And, well, the opposite was true of the BlackBerry Storms clickable touchscreen. Thatdesign SNAFU brought extracomplexity and added confusion to an already out-dated interface. Likely because RIMsphysical-keyboard-focused designers had tried to solve a problem that wasnt actually a problem:touchscreens  although they were clearly a problem for RIMs business  rather than just pushing the OS reset button, as the company reallyneeded to.Touchscreens arent the problem. And Apple isnt trying to fix touchscreens with 3D Touch. Rather its looking for a way to evolve what touchscreenscan do, while also smoothing out some smallusability wrinkles created by mobile users doing so muchon such a (relatively) small screen  aka all that back and forth navigating required becausemultitasking doesnt have roomto provide parallel workflows. So with 3D Touch Apple is focused onimproving user workflow byutilizing degrees of finger pressure as an additional, time-saving navigation layer. Anditengineeredpressure-sensitive touchscreen hardwareto support thisdesign goal. Ergoits user-focused design with tech as the enabler.Even a new feature as apparently superficial asLive Photos, which Im not personally a fan of (imophotos shouldmost definitely be still and composed), have arguably been designed with specific users/use-cases in mind. For one: parents whose iOS devices are invariably takinga portion of the keep the kids entertained strain. (TC colleagues with kids were universally thrilled by the prospect of iOS photos that auto-animate.)It also strikes me that Live Photos are a more battery-friendly way to implementanimated wallpaper, since they animate only as and when the user touches them, so the user gets a more personalized look and feel, without (presumably) it being a big battery drain.If you want to bash Apple for copying Microsoft Surface, theres undeniably plenty of mileagein the iPad Pro. Although its notable that Cupertino invited Microsoft on stage to demo its software running on the Pro, so Redmond itself looks pretty flattered by the flow of ideas here. Again the widerpoint isApple is rarely first to market with a new technology. It wasnt first with phablets either. It was basicallybringing up the rear there. Its modus operandi is not about speed; its about refining and honing and testing, designing forthe flow of use and users with an eye on the mainstream, and on how usage canevolve to bring new benefits;applying technologies once they becomeproven, oronce its convinced they will begenuinely useful. This is whyApple took its time before implementingNFC, for instance. And why itcontinues to shunwireless charging.And why theres no curved screen iPhone.And no chance of one, either. Apple has evidently beenspending its energydeveloping its own distinct curveball to scramble rivals there. A pressure-sensitive touchscreen pane puts a far more interesting slanton glass slabs than a fewsuperficial curves. (If its *actual curved glass*you want, youll have to stick with LG or Samsung.)If you really want to criticize Apple, its more pertinent to focus on any inconsistencies in its own messaging, rather than crying foul over copycat tendencies.And on the inconsistenciesfront, one thing did strike me as out of step with someof its newfeatures.Given how much noise Apple has made recently about privacy, including CEO Tim Cook makinga public defense of encryption, its rather surprising to see Apple expandSirisalways-on capabilities without going into more detail about how its safeguarding user datain the context of expanding pervasive technological surveillance ofthe background noise of their lives. (Sure it may be only local on-device listening for the trigger term Hey Siri, but Apples voice recognition tech is far from perfect, so what about all the stuff Siri isgoing to hear by accident?)Dittothe Live Photos recording feature  which apparentlydefaults to being switched on, rather than off. People may not immediatelyrealize that when they snap aphoto with their new iPhone the phoneis alsolistening and recording. Or might toggle it on by accident, given the icon sits permanently at the top of the camera view.We believe that people have a fundamental right to privacy. The American people demand it, the constitution demands it, morality demands it, said Cook, in hispro-encryption speech this June, before going on to add:Im speaking to you from Silicon Valley, where some of the most prominent and successful companies have built their businesses by lulling their customers into complacency about their personal information. Theyre gobbling up everything they can learn about you and trying to monetize it. We think thats wrong. And its not the kind of company that Apple wants to be.So, Apple, tell us how analways-on Siri will avoid gobbling up users private data? And how youll make it clear to users that the camera on the new iPhones is now actually avideo camera by default? (Weve asked Apple for comment on these points and will update this post with any response.)If you want to get really sensitive about Apple and privacy, consider also that a pressure-sensitive touchscreen might provide a trove of additional personal datafor the company given that a persons mood couldaffect how hard or soft they push onthe touchscreen. Will Apple be gathering such mood-sensitive data from its users? And if Apple itself avoids doing this, whats to stopthird party developersmaking inferences about the emotional state of their users, based on signalsfrom Apples newpressure-sensitive pane? Spanish researchers have already apparently developed a way to use machine-learning to detect when mobile users are bored, based on how they interact with content ontheir phones. Think of theadditional intel a pressure-sensitive screen could be used to gleanAs the lattice of technologies that surroundsour lives get ever more sensitive and sensory, then the risks to individual privacy areincreasing exponentially. How powerful technology giants like Apple act and lead  is therefore hugely important. The dystopic view, as one Twitter user putit to methis week, is that user privacy and individual privacy are very different things. SoI for onehope Apple really is thinking different.