Apples continued progress in China saw the company recordone-quarter of smartphone sales in urban areas ofthe worlds largest smartphone market for the first time, according to a new figuresfrom Kantar. China aside, Apple saw significant growth across Europe and the U.S..Its well documented that Apple had a huge last quarter in China. The U.S. firms revenue jumped 70 percent year-on-year to $16 billion, while Canalys claimed it led smartphone shipments in the country for the first time. Kantar, which generates its figures by canvassing a global panel with audiences of tens of thousands in each country, claims Apples largest iPhones to date outsold the competition between November 2014 and January 2015.In urban China, Apples iPhone 6 was the best selling phone in the three months ending in January with a share of 9.5 percent,said Kantars Tamsin Timpson.Xiaomi, which reportedly overtook Samsung to lead Chinas smartphone market in 2014, also fared well.Its Redmi Note, a large screen version of its entry-level device, took second place with 8.9 percent of sales during that period, according to Kantars data.Xiaomis devices are considerably more affordablethan the iPhone  its Redmi series is around $150 unlocked, its flagship Mi family is approximately $300; an iPhone 6 is upwards of $650 yet Kantar said Xiaomi maintained a slim2.2 percent marketshare lead over Apple for smartphone sales.Kantar predicted back in December that Apple was on course for a bumper quarter, and, whilethe U.S. firm made its most striking progress in China, the research firms newest data suggests it made gains in practically every country in the world.Its share ofsmartphone sales in the U.S. reached 43 percent, thats up 3.6 percent on the previous year. Android devices together accounted for 52 percent of sales, down 3.1 percentyear-on-year.Europe as a whole saw the same upwards trend for Apple. Android devices accounted for 2.2 percent less of all sales  overall 67.2 percent  while iOS share of the pie grew 3.2 percent year-on-year to reach 21.9 percent.These effects were most extreme in the UK, where iOS market share leapt by 11.4 percent year-on-year to reach 40.1 percent, Android maintained a lead on 51.5 percent despiteits marketshare declining by 7.7 percent.Kantar said Samsungs Galaxy S5 was the second highest selling smartphone during the month period, despite an improved performance by Motorola and HTC. Ultimately, though, the Galaxy S5s8 percent share of sales was not even half of the iPhones in the UK, which accounted for 17.6 percent.Indeed, Apples device was the top seller inFrance, Germany, Italy and Japan, although Android topped iOS in every market Kantar covered except Japan  where, interestingly, Android manufacturers actually made a 5.8 percent marketshare gain over the past year, whileApples share declined 7.3 percent.Much of this data can be attributed to launch timings from Apple and Samsung. Apples new phones tend to launch in the final quarter, while Samsung  which unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Note this week  generally releases its Galaxy S series in the second quarter. (Its Note phablet series is releasedcloser tothe iPhone.)That cycle pits a newiPhone against Samsungs nine-month-old flagship, but this year theres a difference.Apples new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plusare outselling the iPhone 5s at the same period of life in significant quantity across the worlds most important mobile markets.Samsung has dispensed with many of its traditional features for its new Galaxy S6 phones  swapping out waterproofing and replaceable batteries for a metallic body and sleeker design  andit remains to be seen how consumers will react. Short of these fairly sweeping aesthetic changes, it isunclear exactlywhat the Korean firm can do to battle Apples growing position in the higher end of the smartphone market. More telling will be how sales develop once the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge are in the market, and as the newness of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus wears down.It isnt just marketshare where Apple is on the ascendency, it is dominating the mobile market on profit too. A Strategy Analytics report issued last monthsuggested that the Cupertino-based firmaccounted for 89 percent of all smartphone profits in Q4 2014  its share equated to $18.8 billion, with Android takingjust 11 percent, around$2.4 billion.