TechCrunch Include Office Hours are happening on April 15th! Bryan Schreier and Bill Coughran from Sequoia Capital will join TechCrunch to provide valuable advice and feedback to startups.Launched in 2014, Include is TechCrunchs diversity program, aimed at facilitating opportunities for underrepresented groups in tech to take their startups to the next level.The Office Hours program is part of that effort. Once monthly, TechCrunch works with VC partners to provide feedback and advice to early-stage companies. To be considered for a meeting in our April session with Sequoia, fill out the application here by April 7th at 6pm PT.Underrepresented groups in tech include, but are not limited to, Black, Latino, Native American, LGBT and female founders. For our first session, wed prefer teams that are based in the Bay Area, as Office Hours will be held at Sequoias office in Menlo Park. Future Office Hours will be hosted in San Francisco, as well as other startup hubs.Lets learn more about our co-hosts.Bryan Schreier Partner
Bryan works with consumer and enterprise software companies. He is a Director of AgilOne, Clever, Dropbox, Elevate, Good Eggs, Hearsay Social, Inkling, Qualtrics, Thanx, Thumbtack, TuneIn and VarageSale. Prior to joining Sequoia Capital in 2008, Bryan was Googles Senior Director of International Online Sales and Operations, where he oversaw advertising sales, operations and engineering across Europe, Asia and Latin America. He also launched Googles European headquarters and was interim President of Sales in China. Prior to Google, Bryan served in Morgan Stanleys Technology Investment Banking Group. Bryan has a Computer Science degree from Princeton University.Bill Coughran Partner
Known for his leadership of innovative teams, Bill works as a coach to founders to help them build technology-centric organizations. Previously, Bill was on the board of Clearwell (SYMC) and he currently serves as a Director of Altiscale, Blue Danube Systems, Cohesity, FireEye (FEYE) and Metanautix. Bill serves as a Board Observer at Avalanche Technology and Docker. Prior to joining Sequoia in 2011, Bill was SVP Engineering at Google, on the executive committee and advisor to the founders and Eric Schmidt. Before Google, Bill was co-founder and CEO of Entrisphere (ERIC). Earlier, he was VP of Bell Labs Computing Sciences Research Center where C, C++, Unix, Plan 9, and Inferno were created. Bill has held adjunct and visiting faculty roles at Stanford, Duke and ETH Zurich. Bill has a B.S. and M.S. in Math from Caltech and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford.Were thrilled to have Sequoia Capital join us.If youre interested in attending, apply here by Thursday, April 7th.