Back in October of 2015, Apple released a long awaited hardware update to the Apple TV  and with it, a shiny new Apple TV remote. You could speak to the remote to issue voice commands (Siri, play Pitch Perfect 2. Yes, again. Dont judge me, Siri. You dont know me.) and flick around a built-in trackpad for quick navigation.But long-time Apple TV users noticed something quick: Apples Remote app for the iPhone, which allowed you to control the Apple TV with your iPhone when the dedicated remote wasnt handy, wasnt keeping up with the new feature set. Basic functionality (like using the iPhone as a keyboard) worked  but all of the nifty new stuff was missing.It sounds like thatll be changing shortly. In an interview with John Gruber, Apples Eddy Cue and Craig Federighi laid out some details of a coming Remote app update:Eddy Cue: We have a new remote app.. if you have an iphone, you can use the keyboard on the iPhone.Craig: And more than that, really theres full Siri, from your phone, communicating to your TV. Thats a great upgrade to that app.Gruber: Well, theres a remote app [already] for the iPhone now that you can connect to AppleTV.Eddy: There is. As Craig said, it only does the keyboard the new remote app will have all the capabilities of the new Apple TV remote does, like Siri.Craig: And obviously, you have the trackpad function of the remote  youll be able to do that with the phone. Its really a full replacement.Gruber: Will it work with some of the games? So if theres a 2 player game, someone can use their phone, someone else can use the remote?Eddy: Yep  thats exactly it. Remote for one person, phone for one person.Its actually quite surprising to hear Cue and Federighi talk so openly about new stuff in the pipeline; traditionally, Apple aimed to keep even the smallest of details under lock and key. Between this and opening up iOS betas to the public, its as if someone at Apple said Maybe maybe we dont have to be quite so secretiveWant to hear it for yourself? The relevant bit begins at 22:10 or so in this weeks episode of Grubers The Talk Show.