If youve been scouring the coverage of Apples new MacBook, youll probably already know this. But I did an informal poll and a lot of folks did not, so I thought Id mention it.The new trackpad does not move, at all.When you click it, it clicks, but it doesnt actually click. There is an audible click sound (thats what the silly picturebelowis, me listening) and it does in fact feel like it clicks, but that is merely an illusion.There is a set of vibrating motors underneath that provides force feedback, also known as haptics in some applications. This feedback fools your finger into believing that youve pressed down on a hinged button, the wayyourcurrent trackpad works. This feedback relies on phenomenoncalled lateral force fields (LFFs), which can cause humans to experience vibrations as haptic textures. This can give you the feel of a clickable surface or even depth. The Force Touch feature of the new trackpad allows you to press deeper, giving you additional levels of tapping feedback. The effect is done so well that you actually feel like youre pressing down deeper into a trackpad that still isnt moving at all. Its so good its eerie.If youre worried about losingyour click, dont worry. In my opinion, its completely indistinguishable from a physicalpress. And there are accessibility benefits here because there is an adjustable sensitivity. Playing with that led to a distinct difference in the pressure needed to trigger a click. People with muscular atrophy or conditions that cause pain on certain finger movements willlikely benefit.The trackpad sounds great for people with repetitive stress injury, says our own Catherine Shu. I had carpal tunnel syndrome a while back and tapping the trackpad with the side of my thumb made the rest of my fingers go tingly.Some of theearliest research into using LFFs to create haptic feedback was done by Margaret Minsky, and summarized in a 1995 dissertation called Computational haptics : the Sandpaper system for synthesizing texture for a force-feedback display. If you browse it, you could be getting a peek at the future of Apples screen technology  Minsky actually investigated the use of this methodto create a display that could simulate textures.A WSJ report from earlier todaysays that Apple is integrating its Force Touch technology into future iPhones  which would detect how hard a screen is pressed. Tap confirmation, contextual clicking, deeper interaction models and maybe even hover states await us. Color me 100% not shocked. The report doesnt mention whether the feedback is also coming, but they seem intertwined to me, well see.If this clever vibrating tech can make a stationary piece of glass on your MacBook feel like its actually clicking, it could do the same for your iPhone.Imagine, stickers that tickleyou, or a Facebook poke that actually pokes. Its a brave new world.Updated to clarify details from theWSJ report