In a frankconversation with TechCrunch last week, Apttus CEO Kirk Krappe talked about hiscompanys exit strategy, which could come to a head in the not-too-distant future.Krappe believeshis company is in a good position to IPO or sell  possibly to Salesforce if its interested  some time later this year.We will be IPOing this year. That may be a function to figurewhat Salesforce wants to do and they may think about that [after purchasing SteelBrick at the end of last year]. Theres no reason they cant buy us too. For me, I have to run the business, and were growing 100 percent year on year. If Salesforce came to the table, that would be great if the numbers work. If not, we have an amazingly strong business, Krappe said.Its worth noting that Apttus places its valuation at between $1 billion and just under $1.5 billion,making it a unicorn company. The CrunchBase Unicorn Leaderboard pegs it at $1.1 billion.Apttus plays in the Quote-to-Cash space that works nicely with Salesforces core CRM product. After a businessenters a potential customer into its CRM database, it needs to start to move that customer toward a sale  first by delivering a quote, then drawing up a contract, sending out an invoice and finally collecting payment.Last weeksconversation came after Salesforce announced it was acquiring fellow quote-to-cash vendor SteelBrick at the end of last month for $360 million, and that purchase seemed to cause some angst for Apttus.They may have reason to be concerned, says Brent Leary, managing partner at CRM Essentials, LLC who has been covering the CRM business for many years. I think Apttus felt they had a special status in the Salesforceecosystem, and the SteelBrick acquisition signals that maybe it wasnt as special as itonce thought, he said.It may also be that Salesforce simply didnt want to pay the money to get Apttus, which is a $100 million company and the SteelBrick acquisitionwas a way to dip their toe in the quote-to-cash pool with a much smaller player, Leary explained.Apttus CEO Kirk KrappeAs for Krappe, he sees SteelBrick as a smaller fish swimmingin the shallower end of themarket. If you think about it from a Salesforceperspective, do they want an enterprise to mid-market play [like us] or do they want to feed something into their little deployments because thats very frothy for them [at present]? Having other products [like SteelBrick] to pop into the channel becomes appealing, he said.That said, hedoesnt necessarily see it as a competition between the two. I dont think its either buy SteelBrick or Apttus. Salesforce uses us internally for almost everything. We are strategic for their move into larger enterprises, he explained.Clearly Apttus is strongly linked to Salesforce, regardless of whether it buys it or not. Its built on the Salesforce platform. Salesforce is a customer and it helps Apttus sell to larger enterprise customers. Perhaps more importantly Salesforce Ventures, the funding arm of Salesforce.com is one of itslargest investors, leading the $41 million Series B last February.Apttushas raised $186 million across three rounds including a $108 million round last September. Salesforce Ventures has contributed across all three rounds so far,but does that mean its interested in acquiring Apttus?Krappe believes once his company files go public, it could compelSalesforce to take a closer look at itas an acquisition target.When you look at historical data, when companies file the S1 that signals the market to potential suitors and they start looking. It becomes a forcing function, he said.Leary isnt necessarily convinced Salesforce will make the move. Salesforce can buy a company with great tech and whichdoesnt have the biggest market presence, he said. Because of itssize and stature, Salesforce can make it work, he said. That could potentially leave Apttus without a suitor.Even while this discussion is going on, Apttus has its eyes on its own strategic purchases. In fact, it even looked at buying SteelBrick itself before Salesforce pulled the trigger, but decidedit really didnt make economic sense to go after SMBs.We are in a good position and could do something like an acquisition. We are not sitting back and waiting for things to unfold, he said. That could be in the form of a companythat gives it functionality it doesnt have or access to geographical marketswhere it lacks a strong presence.One thing hewants to avoid is going back to the private funding market at some point, and facea possible down round because of a changing funding environment. SeveralCEOs Ive spoken toin the last couple ofweeks have expressedconcern abouta less favorablefunding climate later in 2016. Some of the big funding rounds weve reported so far in early 2016 dont necessarily bear that out, but there clearly is a perception among some startup executives that private fundingcould tighten up later this year.Apttusappears to bein good shape financially after the September funding event, and should have enough cash on hand to control its own destiny for some time to come. Its clear that it wants to exit this year,whether thats byacquisition or an IPO. Time will tell how that plays out.