APUS Group, a seven-month-old Chinese company that develops Android utility apps for the global market,has confirmed that it has raised $100 million in new funding. The companys Series B round, word of which got out in China earlier this month, will be used to develop new servicesand grow itsreach in global markets like the U.S., Brazil, India and Russia.The round wasled byChengwei Capital, SIG and Qiming Venture Partners, withparticipation fromexisting investors Redpoint Ventures andNorthern Light Venture. This newfunding takes APUS  which isnot yet monetizing its services  to$116 million in venture money so far.Beijing-based APUS was foundedin June 2014. Its lead byTao Li,a formerVP with Chinese internet security/browser heavyweight Qihoo 360, and is a fascinating company.Few startupsraise this much money within their first year of operations, and fewer still are located in China, but fast growth is what APUS is all about.Its flagship product  an Android launcher that we wrote about last year  raced to 30million registered usersin just three months; an APUS spokesperson told TechCrunch that it now has 90 million users, 70 million of whom it claimedareactive each month.APUS, which also offers a notification app, is aiming to take the launcher to 300 million registered users before the end of 2015.APUS said this new round will go towards doubling its 100-person team. The startup already has some representatives stationed in global markets, but that hiring spree wont include openingoffices outside of China just yet, itconfirmedThe influx of new staff will mean new services, however.The company is fairly tight-lipped over what it has coming soon, but we understand that a data back-up app and mobile browser are two projects in the pipeline.Another reason why we were struck byAPUS is that it is focused on theinternational market and not China, despite its location. Indeed, the company said that less than 10 percent of its users are located in China  thats quite something for a Chinese company.Another focus that will not waiver is its sole commitment to Android. The companyconfirmed to us that there are no plans to develop iOS apps.Theres an interestingstrategic angle to the company and others like it. It is quietly building a significantcommunity for unsexy services that are part of a users daily habits. If it is able to establish itself as a brand among Android users worldwide, thatcould create a platform to introduceadditionalservices and monetization opportunities, some of which could be piped into its Android launcher, not to mention other core apps like the planned back-up and browser services.APUS isnt the only one moving towards this goal. A bevy of battery and security app makersfrom China, including Cheetah Mobile, have adoptedsimilar approaches, as a recent Tech In Asia article explains.