
Donald Fischer is a venture partner at General Catalyst. Its no secret that data scientist is one of the hottest job titles going. DJ Patil famously proclaimed data scientistThe Sexiest Job of the 21st Century before moving on to join the White House as the first chief data scientist of the U.S. Once a rarefied in-house role at a few leading Internet companies such as LinkedIn and PayPal, data science has since grown into a global phenomenon, impacting organizations of all sizes across many industries.More recently, a buzzy new job title has emerged from the same group of companies: that of site reliability engineer, or SRE. Will SREs follow the same path of rapid growth that data scientists did before them? Before we dive into that question, lets consider the context that has led to the creation of site reliability engineering.Over the last 15 years, the largest Internet properties have quietly led a revolution in IT technology. The reason is simple: Traditional corporate data center techniques simply would not efficiently scale up to the level that is required to run a global service like Google or Facebook. Instead, these companies have had to innovate at all layers of the technology stack, from hardware to networking to applications.In many cases, the resulting building blocks have been released as open source software packages, or have inspired third parties to create their own versions. Now, organizations ranging from startups to the largest Fortune 500 enterprises are adopting these technologies for their own purposes.Examples of this phenomenon are numerous. To pick just a few:A unifying theme of these technologies is higher efficiency and lower cost at larger scale. But source code wont solve these challenges in isolation. It must be complemented by new management techniques, methodologies and tools. In other words, the big picture needs to consider people and process as much as it does software.For inspiration on the people and process front, we can similarly look to the web-scale Internet companies. Many of the early innovators have rallied around the concept of site reliability engineering.Ben Treynor, who joined Google as a site reliability tsar in 2003, has described SRE as what happens whenasoftwareengineeristaskedwithwhatusedtobecalledoperations. Over the last decade, the team that Treynor started at Google has grown from a handful of production engineers to more than 1,000 SREs.Moreover, the SRE concept has been embraced by other major Internet companies, including Dropbox, Airbnb, Netflixand many more. Job listings site Indeed now lists hundreds of SRE positions. The SRE community now even has its own conference, dubbed SREcon.Andrew Widdowson, an SRE at Google, relates the discipline to competitive auto sports: Our work is like being a part of the worlds most intense pit crew. We change the tires of a race car as its going 100mph.As any competitive racingfanknows,afasterengine and chassis doesnt mean much without a world-classpitcrew,equippedwiththerighttools, techniques and strategies tokeep it in the lead. InFormula1racing,thedaysofwinning races based on gut instinct are waning. Todays winning teamsaredifferentiated byreal-timestreamingdataanalytics as much as they are by pistons and tires.Its all well and good to be inspired by the large Internet companies, but how do we integrate the SRE discipline into existing enterprise IT teams?Just like companies like Cloudera packaged the early tribal knowledge around data engineering and turned it into turnkey products accessible to a mass IT audience, a new batch of companies is packaging the principles of SRE for the masses. Recently introduced Rocana Ops is an example. [Disclosure: I am an investor in Rocana.]Rocana Ops gives administrators visibility into the inner workings of their data centers and applications. Just as a Bloomberg terminal enables brokers to monitor and investigate activity across markets, Rocana Ops uses big data techniques, combined with data visualization, to guide IT operators to the root cause of any issue in their complex IT infrastructure. Companies using Rocana Ops to power their IT operations gain the capabilities of the site reliability engineer discipline, without the steep learning curve.Considertheexampleofacontemporarymulti-channele-commerceapplication. A typical modern system mightbecomprisedofcorebusinesslogicimplementedinScala,linkedto alegacyoff-the-shelf Java order management system, backed by multiple transactional databases (say, both MongoDB and Oracle),frontedbyaNode.jsAPItier.Somepiecesofthispuzzlemaybedeployedinanon-premise data center, while other components live on apubliccloudproviderlikeAmazonWebServices.Therewillbedependenciesonthird-party services (perhaps Stripe for payments), and a mix of webendpointsandnativemobileappsforAndroidandiOSinteractingwiththecoresystem through anAPIgateway.Now,considera typical business-critical problem that could crop up: request timeouts are driving shopping cartabandonmentbymobileappusers. How long would it take to notice the problem to begin with? Oncetheproblemis identified, given such a complex web of interacting technologies, where wouldone evenstarttolookfortheunderlyingrootcause?Isitanetworkissue,adatabaseperformanceproblemoranapplicationerrorintroducedinthe most recentrelease?With an SRE-inspired approach, system logs and telemetry are continuously collected, in real time, from all components of the system, and stored in a central data store. Machine-learning algorithms identify anomalous events (such as the rash of timeouts from mobile devices that represent a statistical outlier compared to historical patterns) and surface them to the attention of IT staff.A rich web interface incorporating data visualizations guides the admin to the most relevant log events, highlighting other contemporaneous behavior changes observed across all elements of the IT infrastructure, wherever they reside.Armed with the ability to quickly narrow in on the relevant data, the underlying problem can be identified.The new stack is infiltrating IT infrastructure already, driven at a grass-roots level by progressive developers and IT operators. Given that, its important for IT teams to respond proactively and holistically to the change that is afoot.Here are a few recommendations on how to approach this:How long will it be until we have a Chief Site Reliability Engineer of the United States? Given the challenges of rolling outhealthcare.govin recent years, this may be a case of the sooner, the better. Regardless, while we await that milestone, its not too soon to consider the implications of the SRE discipline in your own organization.