
Mattias Ljungman is a co-founder and partner at Atomico.We are accustomed to hearing that European tech is perpetually in Silicon Valleys shadow. Now there have been suggestions that the local tech scene is starting to feel Silicon Valleys valuation woes.If true, this should raise alarm bells, because if European technology startups struggle to raise money from wary investors, it could hit the brakes on Europes budding digital economy just as the EU begins ramping up its tech industry,preparing for a digital single market.However, the data paints a more nuanced picture, one showing that, in the main, Europe is not as susceptible to the impact from a U.S. tech downturn, because it has now laid the foundations talent, mentors, angel investors, local VCs, incubators, accelerators and communities  that are propelling Europe on its own, separate investment cycle.The data about Series A funds raised, capital invested and $100+ million exits, gathered from Dow Jones VentureSource, CB Insights and S&P Capital IQ, shows that in relative terms, Europe is now starting to fire on all cylinders, much like Silicon Valley did in 2013.Silicon Valley is indeed undergoing a chill, while tech in Europe is growing, purposefully, confidently and across a broad front of geographical hubs and industries. Currently, France is leading Europe in investments so far this year.CB Insights shows that the absolute number of funding rounds for early-stage companies  whats called Series A rounds  in the U.S. appear to have peaked in2014 (2015 was down from 2014 by -4 percent).Series A rounds are important because they are one of the best indicators of the health of an ecosystem in producing a solid pipeline of companies that have gained sufficient traction to raise an institutional round from venture capitalists.In Europe, Series A investments only really started to ramp from 2014, and the number of local companies hitting this funding milestone continues to rise. 2015 was a record year for Europe  up 12 percent from the year before. In January and February so far this year, A rounds are up 38 percent year-over-year (versus 19 percent up in the U.S.).Generally speaking, venture investing in tech companies in the U.S. has been volatile, with a large uptick in funds raised by venture capitalists since 2012, and big spikes in 2014 and 2015, according to Dow Jones VentureSource.In Europe, weve yet to see any big jumps or dips in VC funding.According to CB Insights, $100+ millionexits  when startups are acquired by larger firms or IPO  started to ramp in the U.S. from 2011 onwards, reaching an eight-year high of 122 exits in 2014, but then declining again in 2015 to 83.In Europe, the ramp in $100+ millionexits only really kicked in from 2014 (18 exits), and reached a new high of 26 exits in 2015.None of this is to say that the gung-ho spirit of Silicon Valley has dampened and that Europe has magically thrown off its yoke of conservatism. U.S. startups are still raising money, although, for some, the valuations are coming down to what some might say is a more realistic level.European institutional investors  with some exceptions such as in the Nordics  could still step up their activity in late-stage funding, and a handful of activist EU data protection authorities are erecting barriers to the global free-flow of data. Investment pace in the Nordics is currently four times faster than just two years ago.But tellingly, this year (so far), several fast-growing private tech firms in the U.S. have seen their valuations plummet. You cant really argue with the numbers: For Silicon Valley, the hangover from heyday valuations has started. CB Insights has even created a Downround Tracker on companies that have raised money or exited at valuations lower than their earlier investment rounds. For now, its mostly populated by companies from the U.S. (83 percent of all companies on the list). This could, of course, spread to Europe, but so far the data does not show this to be the case.Listed companies havent fared much better. The aggregate market cap of the 34 public Internet Software & Services companies that have IPOd in the U.S. sinceJanuary 1,2013 was trading at 42 percent below their aggregate first-day market caponMarch 16 this year, according to S&P Capital IQ. Here too, Europe has not seen the same impact. The 25 public Internet stocks that have listed in Europe in that same time period have been much more resilient, and are trading 9 percent above their initial first-day aggregate market cap.Given all of the above, it seems that a more informed way to think about whether or not Europe will be caught in Silicon Valleys downturn is to understand that the Valley has been on fire since 2008, andEurope has only really got going in the lastthree years.So does Europes trajectory mean that were heading for the same kind of correction just a few years down the line? Not necessarily. Due to the relative scarcity of capital in Europe when compared with the glut in the Valley, Europes tech industry has also had less hype  and hopefully the conditions for more sustainable, long-term successes.We have the opportunity to both learn from thesuccesses in the U.S. and pre-empt some of their issues. Thats a great position to be in.