Avid Life Media, the parent company behind hacked dating site Ashley Madison, says this morning that media reports claiming the site had very few active female users were inaccurate. Thats hard to believe, given that the leakedemails resulting from the massive data breach also revealed the company paid people to create fake profiles (dubbed angels) on an ongoing basis, and had even wanted to find a way to automate this activity.According to database research from Gizmodo in August, of Ashley Madisons roughly 37 million users, only 5.5 million were marked female. But of that subsection, only a small percentage appeared to be active on the site  checking their messages, or using the sites chat system, for example. Gizmodo also uncovered other odd findings, like the fact that many womens IP address belonged to the same company that hosted Ashley Madison backups, which could indicate their accounts were created at Ashley Madison itself.And over 68,000 profiles had the IP address of 127.0.0.1  a non-routable address that refers to thelocal computer. And hundreds of female profiles sharedthe same, unusual last name  which also happened to belong to a former Ashley Madison employee.Gizmodo concluded that only around 12,000 of thefemale accounts on the dating site actually belonged to real women. Their reporting basically called outAshley Madisonas being a deliberate fraud.ALMs statement, released this morning, doesnt name Gizmodo, but speaks directly to itsfindings. The company says that the reporter madeincorrect assumptions about the meaning of fields contained in the leaked data.This reporter concluded that the number of active female members on Ashley Madison could be calculated based on those assumptions. That conclusion was wrong, the company claims.In addition, ALM states that Ashley Madisons user base is growing, following the hack. Hundreds of thousands of new users signed up in the past week, including 87,596 women, the company says. Women last week sent over 2.8 million messages, the statement continues, noting also that recent media reports predicting the imminent demise of Ashley Madison are greatly exaggerated.If you tend to believe that any press is good press, then theres the possibility that Ashley Madison sawa rise in user numbers as people heard time about the dating site, whose tagline is Life is short. Have an affair, for the first time. They may have signed up out of curiosity, using fake credentials, perhaps.The company also noted that its mobile app is the 14th highest grossing app in the social networking category in the U.S. iTunes App Store. (At the time of writing, however, its actually #20).But Ashley Madison haslost the trust of its users and the wider online community, following the large-scaledata breach, which exposed the personal details of some 37 million members. It seems that the company may not have been scrubbing the details from those who paid for the full delete option, and it certainly was engaged in populating the site with fake accounts, its internal emails revealed. As icing on the cake,ALMsCEO, who claimed to have never himself cheated, was discovered to have multiple, ongoing affairs in these emails. (He stepped down last week.)In other words, ALM can make all the statements it wants, but the damage has been done to its reputation. Once the buzz wears off, its yet to be determined if Ashley Madisons businesswill truly recover.