Hacked data from online extramarital affairs websiteAshley Madisonhas apparently been leaked online, after a threat by a group ofhackers to do so earlier this summer if the service did not shut down (which it has not).In July the group, which calls itselfThe Impact Team, published a range of random user data they claimed to have takenfrom Avid Life Media, the parent company behind Ashley Madison and two other dating-related websites.ALM claims Ashley Madisonhasmore than 33 million members, spreadacross46 countries  although the proportion of activeprofiles is unclear. The hackers themselves accused the siteof scamming users with thousands of fake female profiles.A post on theHydraze bloglate yesterday claimed the Ashley Madison data had finally been leaked on an Tor website. The data apparently includes some 33 million accounts; 36 million email addresses; and personal info including names, street addresses, phone number and credit card transactions.A readme file contained with the data dump containsthe following statement from its creators:Avid Life Media has failed to take down Ashley Madison and Established Men. We have explained the fraud, deceit, and stupidity of ALM and their members. Now everyone gets to see their data.Find someone you know in here? Keep in mind the site is a scam with thousands of fake female profiles. See ashley madison fake profile lawsuit; 90-95% of actual users are male. Chances are your man signed up on the worlds biggest affair site, but never had one. He just tried to. If that distinction matters.Find yourself in here? It was ALM that failed you and lied to you. Prosecute them and claim damages. Then move on with your life. Learn your lesson and make amends. Embarrassing now, but youll get over it.Any data not signed with key 6E50 3F39 BA6A EAAD D81D ECFF 2437 3CD5 74AB AA38 is fake.While ALM has not confirmed whether the data dump is genuine,security researchers are inclining towards sayingit looks genuine at this point.Im sure there are millions of AshleyMadison users who wish it werent so, but there is every indication this dump is the real deal. briankrebs (@briankrebs) August 19, 2015The data dumpwas made on 11/07/15 so any accounts created after that point wouldnt be included.Responding to news of the latestdata dump in a statement, ALM said its investigating into the original hack is still ongoing.Of the new revelations it said:We have now learned that the individual or individuals responsible for this attack claim to have released more of the stolen data. We are actively monitoring and investigating this situation to determine the validity of any information posted online and will continue to devote significant resources to this effort. Furthermore, we will continue to put forth substantial efforts into removing any information unlawfully released to the public, as well as continuing to operate our business.The statement goes on to condemn the hack as an act of criminality, adding:The criminal, or criminals, involved in this act have appointed themselves as the moral judge, juror, and executioner, seeing fit to impose a personal notion of virtue on all of society. We will not sit idly by and allow these thieves to force their personal ideology on citizens around the world. We are continuing to fully cooperate with law enforcement to seek to hold the guilty parties accountable to the strictest measures of the law.While strong on moral outrage, ALMsstatement provides no new details on how the apparent breach occurred. Weve reached out to them to ask about their securityand will update this post with any response.Speaking to security investigator Brian Krebs yesterday, Ashley Madisons original CTO Raja Bhatia, claimed the site never stored credit card information.We dont store that, Bhatia told Krebs. We use transaction IDs, just like every other PCI compliant merchant processor. If there is full credit card data in a dump, its not from us, because we dont even have that.When someone completes a payment, what happens is from our payment processor, we get a transaction ID back. Thats the only piece of information linking to a customer or consumer of ours. If someone is releasing credit card data, thats not from us. We dont have that in our databases or our own systems.However security researcher Per Thorsheim claims to have found active credit card data within the dumpAM breach: credit card listed in breach is *STILL VALID* and in "daily" use. AMEX/VISA/MC has got work to do now.
cc @DavidGoldmanCNN Per Thorsheim (@thorsheim) August 18, 2015When news of the hack broke earlier this summer, Thorsheim alsopointed outthat Ashley Madison did not verify email addresses of users  so the presence of an email address within the data dump cant be used to identify a genuine user of the site.Security researcher Graham Cluley reiterated this point today, writing on his blog: I could have created an account at Ashley Madison with the address of barack.obama@whitehouse.gov, but it wouldnt have meant that Obama was a user of the site.So while security site CSOis reporting thatthe data dump includes some 15,000 email accounts that usea .mil (US military) or .gov email address  andThe Telegraphclaimsthe data also contains around 100 UK government email addresses  its not necessarily saying very much, given thelack of an email verification process.Another security researcher, Robert Graham, whos also been parsing the data dump,says hes found credit cardtransaction data, but not full credit card numbers. Howeverhe notes that given the data does havefull name and addresses it could out still serious users of the site.Graham also notes that the hack includes full account information  so not just names but personal dating information, such as height and weight. Other news sources are reporting the data includes details aboutsexual fantasies, and alsoprofile photos of users.Inaddition toaddresses, the dataalso apparently contains GPS coordinates.I suspect that many people created fake accounts, but with an app that reported their real GPS coordinates, Graham adds.Account compromise checker @haveibeenpwned developer, Troy Hunt, has now added the Ashley Madison data dump to hisservice  albeit in a non-publicly-searchable format, in a bid to preserve some blushes. Hehas tweeted that so far some 5,000 subscribers to his service have received notifications that their details are in the data dump.According Rob Graham, CEO of Errata Security speaking to Ars Technica, the dump also includes user passwords but thesewere cryptographically protected using the bcrypt hashing algorithm  which should make them toughto compromise.