
Benjamin Brandall is a content crafter for Process Street.  After my recent article aboutempty states, I was lucky enough to get an interview request fromHolly Jade, a user experience (UX) designer with serious credentials including TEDx, Apple and Google.During the interview, I went into terrified rambling mode.Holly is putting together a kind of primer for those involved in UX design calledUXONOMY. The idea of the project is to clearly define UX, which she says is such a young field its wide open to interpretation.Im not often put on the spot and asked in real-time what I think. After all, Im a writer. I spend hours formulating my points and even longer subconsciously developing an idea.Anyway, inevitably I was askedwhat compelling UX is. Compelling UX is designed in a way that does not cause a disconnect between expectation and reality,I said.How pretentious, I thought. Now Im alone and thinking straight, let me try toclear it up in writing.Have you ever come across an app that seemed ideal?The copy on the landing page is crystal clear and promises to fix your problems in the exact way youd like. The screenshots show a simple and powerful UI, with intuitive navigation and a clear connection between trigger and action.A minute later, youre signing up for a free trial of the pro plan and soon youre inside the app.Bloody hell.I thought itd be decentbut its terrible. Right, well. Off to their competitors.Ive certainly done that before. I bet you have, too.Thats because the environment of a landing page is perfect for sucking you in, drawing you further down the page and exciting you before hitting you with a call-to-action.The format is good for getting new users. Its not good for honesty, reality or setting users up to stick around for long.This article is about the disconnect between expectation and reality, and how a misalignment between your design, writing and development can ruin everyones hard work.Expectations are created by:The reality is:Ill look at the ways you may be misleading your users and increasing the likelihood that they willchurn outbefore giving your app a chance.In the next part of the article, Im going to look at the reasons why this disconnect causes so many problems, and what you can do to fix it.After I got off the phone with Holly, I started looking around for the real term for what Id been talking about. As it turns out, theres a theory known asthe principle of least astonishment(POLA).Much of the material I found aboutPOLA was from years back, some as old as 1999. Its crazy to think that this topic hasnt been addressed in the open for that long, especially when it still applies today.What it means is thatdesign should behave in the way theuser expects it to behave. For example, you wouldnt expect to have to use your finger to draw numbers into a calculator or for a blue underlined piece of text to be anything other than a hyperlink, so its better to be traditional than tocreate friction.An interesting way of reframing UX is to think about it as a journey starting from before the user ever gets inside the app. That makes marketing a big part of it and puts theresponsibility on designers, developers and writers in equal measure.Because if the designers, developers and writers arent aligned in their vision, there will be astonishment somewhere down the line  and not the good kind.Once users are in your app, they are in a self-contained environment which is much more controllable. Now the issue isnt their external expectations as much as it is their interactions. AsPeter Seebachwrote for IBMback in 2001: Navigating pages is all about identifying the objects that have functions, figuring out what those functions are, and then hitting the button as hard and as often as you can in the hope that itll do something.Even 15 years later, and in apps instead of web pages, this statement makes sense and doesnt feeldated.Designers still face the same challenges as they did when there wasnt much variation to astonish users with  to quickly communicate the where and what of a UI.Since the brain loves familiarity (until it gets outright sick of it), connecting UI elements to universal actions is a solid way to quicklyonboard users.Unfortunately, you dont always have control over what kind of influences your users will bring with them.Maybe a calculator thatonly accepts input from you drawing on the screen seems like a great idea to you, but because this madness isnt common practice, the user has expectations from the outset that arent in your control.AsScott Berkunsays in his 1999 essayHow to avoid foolish consistency: People dont like to learn things. If they take the time to learn something, they expect to be able to apply that knowledge in many places. It follows that good designers conserve the number of things users need to learn to get stuff done.An example of this in practice from my own experience:After buying a smartphone recently for the first time ever (dont laugh), I was excited to installInbox by Gmail. It was the only mobile mail app Id ever used, and since it needs activation on mobile first, I switched from Gmail to Inbox on desktop and mobile.Because I was used to the swiping right and left to process emails in Inbox, when I decided to try out Gmail for iOS, it seemed ridiculous to me. In Inbox, swiping archives an email or a group of emails, whereas in Gmail it only brings upthe option toarchive.Thismight not have been a problem if I werentalready used to Inbox, but Gmail feels clunky and counterintuitive because of that.Consider, from a UX perspective, which competing apps your users could be switching from. Are gestures in those apps smoother, with fewersteps and less friction to get the same job done?Now weve worked out the nature of the problem, lets look at some ways to fix it.There are two main factors to the marketing material surrounding your software thatwill influence users before they interact with the app itself: copywriting and visuals.When copywriting isnt paid proper attention, products can fall into the trap of being all style and no substance, says Art over atGatherContent.Ive worked on projects in the past I didnt care about, and when youre tasked with something like that, its just easier to oversell it and not bother about the reality of the product. After all, if youre not convinced yourself, you wont convince others so easily.While copywriting,according to Wikipedia,is often used to persuade a person or group, from a UX perspective it should first focus on pure honesty.After all, if were going by the POLA, if its your copy, your landing page and your social proof thats astonishing, your app can only be disappointing. That means you might get more sign-ups but your drop-off will be bigger.Going back to the hilarious idea of a landing page for Microsoft Notepad, if thats the first thing an unwitting future Notepad user sees, theyd be in for a terrible shock.Whats the most common first point of contact for your users?For most companies, itstheir landing page, so thats where the demystification should take place. Even if there are false representations in other placessuch as social media, with an honest landing page you can prove the rumors untrue in a snap, for better or for worse.When a user finds out you exist, youve got to consider what impression youre giving them. Even a modern,flatwebsite for a dated app can make the difference between creating the wrong expectations.Another example from my own experience:I have been using a markdown text editor, iA Writer, on my phone. In my quest towrite more efficiently, I was seeing if I could find a Windows alternative to it and sawthis questiononQuora:Is there a good, minimalistic, markdown-enabled writing application for Windows?I use a Windows PC, and envy certain Mac apps, such as iA Writer and Byword. Are there any alternatives for Windows? I especially like the instant Markdown support and focus features of these apps.The first answer had suggestedMarkdownPad.I expectedthat it will look like iA Writer, but I saw that it looked like this:Whos fault is this? Not the developers  just my own (and partially Microsofts).Even though the developer has me prepared for how MarkdownPad will look by hiding nothing on the landing page, Id foolishly expected things to be different. (After coming to terms with the fact that its just how Windows apps look, I went back and downloaded it anyway.)You cant control every expectation a user might have, and, as weve seen,there are some ways to stop expectations damaging reality. With this said, could the POLA be dangerous for progression?The idea that design shouldnt astonish is controversial. After all, its an art form and a kind of communication, and if you were to have told Marcel Duchamp not to sign a urinal because it will astonish, he would have told you to fuck off.With that said, its useful to take a look back at Scott Berkuns essay on foolish consistency which defends the need for a change sometimes  something Id agree with because otherwise wed still be on the command line or cutting magnetic tape to edit videos.He says that in rare cases, going along with the POLAis pointless conformity. For similar, yet functionally different UIs, stretching them to feel the same for the sake of consistency would be ridiculous. Berkun gives the example of the UI of Pac-Man and of a driving game, whichareboth games but need to be operated in different ways.Even though an abandoned WordPress blog is truly one of the saddest things I can think of, the great thing about researching these fringe topics is coming across blogs you never knew existed.It was on an abandoned blogI found this nugget of a quote fromLouis Dietvorst:We name him/her the User because we think he/she Uses our software. And just build the system the way we think its nice. The User should just accept that. We dont like to ask him or her because that only might introduce complaints and delay to our work bury the word User, because its not users we want to interface with, but Humans!The fact is that humans open themselves up to pain and discomfort (if you can say that about using software).We dont care thatthe secret to happiness is low expectationsand are determined to be disappointed by pretty much anything.It seems strange to say that you shouldnt surprise your users, but design has more in common with communication and facilitation than a signed urinal.