Pinterest is finally opening the doors for developers to access its information  a little bit, at least.The company is rolling out a beta version of its development platform that will allow developers to tap into data of Pinterest users whoconnect their accounts to external applications. The company doesnt plan to open the floodgates, but methodically bring in developers as part of a whitelist. Developers can sign up for that whitelist to build apps for Pinterest starting today.When a developer taps into a users boards, they will get information about the kinds of things they have pinned. They can then figure out unique ways to use that information. Internally, one project involved shipping recipe data that users have pinned over to Instacart, which users could then use to order ingredients for recipes they were interested in cooking.We hosted an internal event to see what people in here would build on top of that, and the results were really cool,Josh Inkenbrandt, Pinterestsdeveloper platform leadsaid. So werealized, we need to be able to start opening this up and see what developers would want to do. We crafted our policies tomakesure the incentives are aligned with developers, with Pinterest and obviously with our users. For us, an app thats great is an app where our Pinnersare the ones that are benefited the most.Pinterest user information is generally public (they post pins to boards that anyone can view), but the company says that apps will still require authorization from users, and those users can revoke access to their information at any point. The company has already set up a rigorous policy for new developers and says it has zero tolerance for bad actors.Pinterest definitely is in a good position to do that. It can look at several other large social networks that opened the floodgates to developers  like Facebook and Twitter  only to have to pare back the influx of applications that were recklessly using user data or were very low quality and spamming users feeds. While the idea of a developer platform has always been on the companys mind, it wasnt until September whenit began taking it very seriously and started building APIs.Honestly, it has a lot to do with finding the right set of values, finding the right value exchange for everyone involved, Inkenbrandtsaid. When I joined Pinterest a little over three years ago, I think the mindsetgenerally about platforms were, you literally just open up your APIs; you allow developers access to everything. And the learnings over the past three years have shown, while that might be good in the short term, it affects your platform in the long term if you have to close those things down, and in some cases it hurts the relationships with developers.Still, to say this is a boon for developers is still a bit of an understatement. Pinterest is one of the last major social networking platforms that developers have not had access to, and its trove of data is in some ways very different from Twitters interest graph and data Facebook has. Pinterest activity tends to be very forward-looking and aspirational  renovation ideas, recipes, and that sort of thing  which has many applications that could be very different from what developers are used to seeing.For inspiration (no pun intended), look at the advertising component of Pinterest. Among the ad community, Pinterest is seen as a gold mine for potential partnerships. The information and usage there doesnt really have an expiration date  it sits on the Internet forever and continues to retain value by nature. Prior to rolling out its advertising products, advertisers were salivating over the possibilities of Pinterest. Itoffers an opportunity forusers to discover something they did not know they were interested in, something that has very natural commerce applications. Advertising against that content, andcreating content natively for Pinterest, offers a massive opportunity for advertisers.This certainly isnt the first time Pinterest has released APIs, but for the most part they have been geared toward marketers rather than third-party developers. Just last week, Pinterest released its Marketing Developer Partners program, which gives brands more tools for creating better pins. Pinterests first API, released in November 2013, was first tested with large brands like Zappos and Walmart.Pinterest also benefits from developer activity. If developers build good apps for Pinterest  say, ones that mesh well with recipes  then in theory Pinterest users will want to post more recipes to Pinterest. That additional content could drive eyeballs and then, in turn, drive Pinterests business.The company hasnt launched with any development partners initially  the whitelist is empty. The reasoning behind that,Inkenbrandt said, was to attract entrepreneurs and developers whowill invent new use cases that sit on top of Pinterest. The group will be small  in the tens or hundreds initially, he said  and then would grow methodically as Pinterest is able to handle operationally from a development and policy standpoint.We want to see the potential, and we think the best thing is to give it to developers, he said.