
Kyle Samani is CEO of Pristine.As Bill Gurley (General Partner at Benchmark Capital and board member of Uber) notes, Uber will be the dominant player in the ride-hailing business. Why? Because Ubers business model is predicated on localized marketplaces of supply and demand for drivers. These localized marketplaces create strong network effects and winner-take-most markets.The localized network effects are built on local liquidity of supply and demand for drivers and riders. This can be best summed up by this image that Gurley features in his post.With this model driving Ubers meteoric rise, tech pundits from Benedict Evans to Ben Thompson are asking the natural next question: What does the self-driving car mean for Uber?The thing isself-driving cars break Uber.Indeed, with self-driving cars, we can just replace the more drivers element of the cycle with more autonomous cars. Drivers are intrinsically temporary. They are just people. They eat, breathe and sleep. They drive when they want to drive, and dont drive when they dont want to drive.Autonomous vehicles are not temporary. Rather, they are permanent. Once they are on the road, they are available 97+ percentof the time to service riders (3 percent for gas, inspections, repair, etc.).Autonomous vehicles break the marketness that makes Uber a market of drivers and riders. Supply will massively outstrip demand as vehicles become available 24/7 at dramatically lower marginal cost.Autonomous vehicles will be much cheaper than human-driven vehicles. Today, humans are taking home 80 percentof the revenue (Uber the other 20 percent). Of that 80 percent, perhaps 30 percent is paid out for gas and vehicle maintenance, costs that autonomous vehicles must also incur. Thus, human drivers are taking home about 50 percent of the revenue they bring in; 20 percent goes to Uber, and 30 percent is the cost of servicing riders.As Jeff Bezos of Amazon says, Your margin is my opportunity. Moreover, as Benedict Evans of A16Z notes, autonomous vehicles will be designed differently, with fewer features, thus making them even cheaper than cars that human drivers are using today to transport riders. With economies of scale, it therefore seems plausible that autonomous vehicles will be 60 percent cheaper than human-driven vehicles, even if Uber maintains its gross profit per ride.Lets return to Ubers virtuous cycle. As outlined by Gurley, if we substitute more drivers with more autonomous vehicles and lower prices with way lower prices, it appears that the market breaks. You could argue that an aggressive company could accomplish the same task now by simply paying drivers a flat hourly fee, even if theres no demand  but it doesnt make any sense to do that because drivers are intrinsically temporary. Paying drivers now doesnt mean drivers will service riders later. On the other hand, paying for a car now, even if its underutilized, doesnt mean it wont be utilized in the future. Moreover, the marginal cost of a car sitting in park two miles from downtown approaches $0.If its indeed possible to ever break Ubers lock on the market, the shift to autonomous vehicles will be the disruptive force that enables someone else to win by beating Uber on asymmetric terms. Being first to market with the right vehicle will be paramount. Even a one-year head start could dramatically change the market dynamics now that Uber and its rivals have educated the market.Google is best suited to productize autonomous cars for ride-hailing. Google invested in Uber and thus has access to useful, confidential information about the ride-hailing business; Google has the best mapping solutions in the world, the most advanced automated driving solutions and the first vehicles designed from the ground up to be autonomous. Its hard to imagine any company thats better poised to capitalize on this opportunity to break Ubers impending monopoly.However, as Benedict Evans notes, self-driving technology will commoditize. Given that Google is financing most of the R&D and their history with Android, its probable that Google wants to commoditize autonomous vehicles. At some point, it will not make sense for a single corporation to finance tens or hundreds of billions of dollars of assets. Rather, banks or public markets should finance these assets. It will be interesting to see.P.S. Google named Google Drive a little bit too soon.