Families today often have more photo-taking devices than family members, which has led to the problem ofpeople having massivenumbers of photos and videos, none of which are properly organized and shared. A Boston-based startup called Lineage Labs, launching today andbacked by$4 million in seed funding, is working on a solution. Its introducing a product called Bevy, a servicethat offers families both local and private storage combined with online backup.The company is one of the first to be funded by Blade, the consumer technology incubator created by Kayak.coms co-founder Paul English. Blade contributed half of Lineage Labs seed funding, while the remaining comesfrom angel investors.The system is an alternative to cloud storagesolutions like iCloud, Google Drive or Dropbox, for example, as its designed to store content locally on a connected hard drive placed in the home, which is where the photos and videos from all family members are saved. This drive, the Bevy, is meant to be set up in the familys entertainment center, as it can also be plugged into the TV to display its content.Initially, the drive offers 1 TB of storage, though it can be expanded by plugging in any other USB hard drive to the back. However, the company says that, in time, there will be other storage tiersavailable beyond 1 TB. In addition, the drive works with SD cards from digital cameras, USB flash drives, and the full solution includes both desktop (Mac, Windows) and mobile (iOS to start) software that uploads photos to the Bevy drive from any connected device afamily member owns.The startup is very similar to Odysee, a photo and video backup company Google acquired just this past month. However, Odysee backed up photos to the family computer, not its own hard drive. But another competitor, Lyve, is still up-and-running with a solution thats also much like Bevys, as it, too, offers a home storage box for family photos and video.Cleary, there are several companies that believe cloud storage alone is not the best solution.Lineage Labs co-founder and CEOFirdaus Bhathena, a father of three, says he personally faced the problem Bevy aims to solve, as photo storage and sharing within his own family became a constant source of frustration.Were always asking each other for photos, he says, noting this happened both inside the immediate family and even with extended family and close friends. Its just become really hard to do the things we like to do with photos, Bhathena adds.That is, its difficult now to collect them, organize them in a reasonable way, protect them and enjoy them.At launch, Bevys software will allow family members to view and filter their photos and video using metadata like location, device, date and more. That way, you can ask the system to show you all the photos taken at the beach in June that were shot with the Canon DSLR, for example.Family members can also tag and favorite photos, which allows the best to rise to the top. And over time, the company wants to add more smarts to the system, in order to curate photos inanautomated way, as well aspull in photos from other sources, like Facebook.The Bevy 1 TB drive and software will sell for $249 at launch (to increaseto $349 at retail). Optionally, consumers can add on Bevys own cloud backup service for $59 per year. This copies thephotosand videos stored on the drive into the cloud for private backup.The advantage to the product, saysBhathena, is that its solving the need for photo-sharing among in a multi-user household  something that todays cloud services dont address.And its also doing so in a low-tech way. Users dont have to create an account with a username and password  the system just connects to adevice via Bluetooth during setup, and userscan then enter in their name. Meanwhile, the interface itself is designed to be very straightforward adn simple to use.Everybody from a four-year old to a grandparent can use this thing without a manual, notesco-founder Nancy Dussault Smith, who spent 13 years running marketing at iRobot before joining the company.The Bevy drive is available for pre-order today, and expects to ship by October.