The march ofconsolidation in the world of e-commerce has claimed its latest victim. Balanced, a payments platform for peer-to-peer marketplace businesses, is closing its doors after failing to grow fast enough, or as co-founder Matin Tamizi describes it, reach the escape velocitynecessary to be a large, innovative, independent player in thepayments space.Thecompany, a Y-Combinator alum, has struck a deal with one of its longtime rivals, Stripe, to act as its transition partner for existing customers.Balanced itself, including its API and dashboard, will shut down in 90 days (up to June 11, 2015). The startup will keep a small team on for nine months from todayto support issuing refunds,queryingtransactions, and fighting chargebacks (until October 9).We had a lot of respect for what Matin and the team had accomplished, and the broader importance of the market segment, Stripe CEO Patrick Collison said in an interview earlier today.In an interview, Tamizi told me that the closure will affect around 320 customers, with the current list including sites like crowdfunding platform Tilt, RedditGifts, Tradesy, Relay Rides and Artsy, processing hundreds of millions of dollars annually.As a point of comparison, Stripes CEO Patrick Collison told me today that Stripe processesbillions of dollars a year for thousands ofbusinesses in 18 countries around the world. Balancedalso competed against companies like WePay, Dwolla, Amazon Payments and PayPal.This is not an acquisition neither of tech nor talent, and there are no financial terms to this deal that are being disclosed. Stripe will honor all of the existing pricing agreementsthat Balanced has with itscustomers, and will migrate card, bank account, and seller identity data as part of the deal.Balanced, which was incubated in the YC Winter 2011 class, raised at least $3.4 million in venture funding (some funding was undisclosed), from highprofile backerslikeAndreessen Horowitz, SV Angel, CollabFund, Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky, Ashton Kutcher, and former Reddit CEO Yishan Wong.And  witha payments platform that tapped specifically into the rising number of marketplace startups that connected buyers with a number of sellers of goods and services  it got off to a running start, with companies like CrowdTilt (now called Tilt), Zaarly and The Fancy all picking up its services.The company played up its competitive edge against other payment companies like Stripe specifically in targeting businesses that are built around peer-to-peer businesses. Balanceds customer is the marketplace. Stripes customer is the merchant. Everything else stems from that difference, as Tamizi wrote in a post on Quora.And itseemingly co-opted some of itscustomers to spread the news, too (see hereandherefor examples). By offering volume based pricing, it attempted to bevery competitiveagainst Stripe, Braintree and others.But despite adding some interesting customers to its platform, and passing $370 million/year in payments processed at the start of 2014, thatwasnt enough.As Stripe expandedthe kinds of services it offers to compete more squarely against the likes of Balanced, the smaller startupscustomer numbers started to wane. Its telling that when Balanced reported those momentum figures in January 2014, its customer numbers were approaching 450, compared to the 320 it has today.Amongthe more notable wins that Stripe has had in the peer-to-peer marketplace segment has been its recent deal to power payments for Kickstarter(which it won off Amazon). Others include Shopify and Squarespace, Collison pointed out to me.That has ironically made Balanceds biggest competition into its most natural heir.We tried to choose one best option and in termsof similarity of products and having things that our customers also want in marketplaces. The needs are unique and much more than [what] a standard payments processor provides, Tamizi said, with that focusing on needing to provide both payment but also payout services. Stripe has built a lot of that functionality.But there is also the basic economics of payment services. Many payments platforms  like many of the marketplaces themselves  operate on thin margins that need large volumes to work as businesses.Ithink you are right that there are some economies of scale and it is pretty difficult to be a startup payments company in the earliest days, Collison said. We were acutely awareof this for the first two years or so. We were lucky that we crossed that chasm.Tamizi says that todays decision didnt come lightly, something you could very much tell from the tone of his voice. We spent a lot of time thinking of where we are as a company then we made the decisionto shut down Balanced, he said. The question waswhether we could find a graceful transition for our customers and my team.RIP Balanced, and heres to brighter days ahead for the team.Full notice below.== Balanced is shutting down in 90 days ==We started building a payments service for marketplaces in 2011. Wewere shocked with the state of payments at the time, and the pains amarketplace had to go through. Despite the many challenges in theindustry, were proud of how much weve been able to help marketplacesthrive over the last four years.Unfortunately, we havent been able to reach the escape velocitynecessary to be a large, innovative, independent player in thepayments space and have decided not to continue building Balanced.Its important to us to identify a graceful transition for ourcustomers, employees and investors  and honor our existingagreements. To that end, we reached out to Stripe and have beenworking with them to provide a smooth path forward for our customers.We respect how Stripe has been able to innovate, grow, and become thebest solution for marketplaces. Stripe has agreed to honor ourexisting pricing agreements and work closely with us to seamlesslymigrate card, bank account, and seller identity data.Our full API and dashboard will be available over the next 90 days(until June 11, 2015), and support for issuing refunds, queryingtransactions, and fighting chargebacks will continue for the next ninemonths (until October 9, 2015).We realize this is sudden and were sorry for any inconvenience thiscauses. The full Balanced team will stay on for the 90-day migrationperiod and a portion of the team will continue beyond then to makesure were able to provide you with the level of support you need. Weappreciate you working with us and want to do everything we can tominimize the impact on your business.To learn more about the migration, what it means to you, and the stepsrequired to make the switch, go to balancedpayments.com/stripe. Youllbe able to sign into your dashboard and begin the process to migrateyour data to Stripe.Feel free to reach out to us at support@balancedpayments.com or me atmatin@balancedpayments.com.