Uber has made some notable hires in the last year as the transportation upstart continues its march for more growth, but as of this summerits also lost one of its key employees.Lars Fjeldsoe-Nielsen has left his position as VP of mobile at Uber and has moved over to London to become a general partner at VC firmBalderton.There,Fjeldsoe-Nielsen will be focusing on making new early stage investments out of Europe, as well asworking with existing portfolio companies to expand their business. This is something that will be familiar to Fjeldsoe-Nielsen. His career forte up to now has been mobile and specifically mobile business development.Before moving to Uber  where he was one of four VPs at the company and reported to Emil Michael working on business development  Fjeldsoe-Nielsen workedon mobile at Dropbox, where he played a central role in brokeringthe deals to preload and bundle Dropboxs app on to Samsung and HTC phones. Those were moves that proved to be centralto Dropboxs growth in mobile, which in turn played a verya large part in the company growing to hundreds of millions of users by the time he left, from mere millions when he started.While at Dropbox, he also worked as an advisor to WhatsApp prior to its sale to Facebook. Other companies where he has worked in the pastincludeVoicesignal, Skyhook Wireless, Ness Technologies and T9 Tegic.Leaving Uber after only a year and a half, and while the going there appears to beso good  the company continues to grow, even despite some heavy criticismfrom incumbent taxi drivers around itspolicies and more was a decision that his peers did not view lightly, he said.People told me I was crazy for leaving Uber and leaving Silicon Valley, saidFjeldsoe-Nielsen. He says that thechoice was made for a personalreason: no Uber drama; just that he and his wife wanted to be closer to family in the UK and Denmark.Fjeldsoe-Nielsen, who is half Portuguese and half Danish and speaks five languages, is coming to Europe at a time when startups in the region continue to lag behind their U.S. counterparts when it comes to numbers, both in terms of startups on the ground and also in the amount of funding that they get.On the positive side, thatcould mean a softer landing when and if the current markets tech bubblebursts. And in the meantime, the less crowded landscapecould also mean a bigger opportunity for a newcomer to the VC world, like Lars, to get in on interesting companies as they come to market.At Balderton, it is our mission to back the very best global technology businesses being born in Europe, and to work alongside the founders to help them realise their undoubted potential. We are delighted that Lars shares in this vision and his unparalleled expertise and enthusiastic commitment to the European tech scene will help us uncover, back and support the very best founders in the region,Daniel Waterhouse, General Partner at Balderton Capital, said in a statement.ForFjeldsoe-Nielsen, a more pared-down playing field in Europecould also help keep down the noise for him to focus more on the signals that hes found, from experience, to be common threads through some of the startups where hes worked. A bigproduct lesson I picked up from Uber, Dropbox and WhatsApp is simplicity, he said. Doing one thing really well. From there you can then grow.