Uber isnt just Uber. Its Google Maps, Checkr background checks, Braintree payments, and Twilio texts. The best way to do business isnt to build it all in-house. Top companies are increasingly piecing together a composite of APIs from specialized startups. That lets them concentrate on their unique value-add rather than reinventing the wheel.Now those building blocks are turning into big businesses of their own with unique challenges. How do they get traction for their APIs? What does it take to support a developer ecosystem? How much should they charge?Accel Partnersthinks it can help. Its learned from investments in Braintree, Segment, Slack, and Checkr. But Accel also knows it missed the boat on Twilio and Heroku. So to attract more API businesses and share its insights, Accel is announcing a new investment focus in what it calls APX,the API-ification of business.Accel APX partners (from left) Rich Wong and Vas NatarajanAPX is the current picks and shovels, Accel Partner Rich Wong tells me, alluding to the success of merchants who sold mining tools during the gold rush.Together with fellow partner Vas Natarajan, Wong will bring more of Accels dollars to the APX space. Both were already making investments in this area, but now its a formalized theme for the fund.To kick things off, on March 19, Accel will hold its first APX Conference in San Francisco. It features executives from consumer companies that rely on APIs, as well as the startups that build them. Facebook, Amazon, Dropbox, and Twitter will represent, as well as younger businesses like URX, Checkrand Chain.Developers are constantly posed with the question of whether to buy or build. You either pay for a specialized API or you spend the resources trying to replicate them. But as the cogs get more complex, and the talent wars rage on, in-house development keeps looking slower and more expensive.You dont need to go out and source the talent to build these functions, Natarajan tells me. You can outsource entire swatches of your company to very reliable APIs.Its a bit of a talent arbitrage game.Wong followed up, askingWhy would you go start your own payments capabilities, your own payment analytics, your own map capabilities when theyre so easily accessible from these other companies and are arguably better?Take background checks, for example. On-demand and sharing economy startups like Instacart or Homejoy need to know the contractors they send to customers houses arent going to rob them. Normally, these companies would have to hire a team to compare potential hires identities against watch lists and criminal records.But their businesses are about grocery delivery and home cleaning, not background checks, so building a team or system to handle them would be a distraction. With Checkr, that whole function has been reduced to an API,Natarajansays. Instead of recreatingsomething done better elsewhere, You can dedicate 100% of your efforts to the 1% that is going to differentiate a product.With companies cobbled together from APIs like HotelTonight, Uber and Instacart thriving, it seems obvious why Accel would want a piece of parts. But why should APX startups turn to Accel?There are all these nuisances from a go-to-market perspective that weve seen work at scale,Wong insists.A few of the major areas where Accel wants to lend assistanceinclude:Accel has planned APX Conference sessions on each of these topics for developers inside and outside its portfolio. It needs to box out other funds, such as Bessemer, which are known for giving API businesses the firepower they need.Theres going to be a battle for developer mind share extending beyond the startups, says Wong. The Googles, the Microsofts,the Amazons are all seeing the same trend, and these lumbering giants are trying to course-correct as quickly as they can.Four to fiveyears ago, the idea was that you couldnt build a great business providing services to developers, Wong says. I think that mindset has shifted dramatically.