If you believe the origin story depicted in Aaron Sorkins The Social Network, a young Mark Zuckerberg built Facebook in order to meetgirls.Creative fiction or not, the real-life Zuck  who recently became a father to a baby girl called Max  wantsthe world to know about his far more progressive views on women.And that of course is a good thing. The ratio ofmen to women working in the technology industrycontinues to to be massivelyskewed.Facebooks own 2015 diversity reportshows it is still a workplace dominated by white and Asian men, with 68 per cent of employees being male  down a mereone per cent from the2014skew.At such arate of progress the company might tip over from hegemonic masculinity to gender parity round about the time Zucks daughter is headedto college.So what hasZuck just saidabout women and tech? That girlsshould aspire to be nerds.Hewas responding to a comment posted by grandmother Darlene Hackemer Loretto to astatus update on his Facebook (where else?) about his personal challenge for 2016 (more on that here)  in which Loretto mentionsshe tells her granddaughters to date the nerd in school on the off chance theyturn out to be the next Mark Zuckerberg.Zuck counterswith: Even better would be to encourage them to *be* the nerd in their school so they can be the next successful inventor!Hesbasically making thesame point as the new female-led Star Wars film in which Rey, the skilled engineer protagonist, is depicted rejecting multiplewhite knighting attempts, because she knows how totake care of herself thank you very much. So well done Zuck for being zeitgeisty as well as right on.And it certainly is excellentadvice. Nerd has nogender. Its just another word for expert.Thing is,Zucks response glosses over another pertinent issue here: consumption vs creation.Being the nerd is better achieved if you are directingyour time to single-mindedly learning a set of skills, rather than being suckered into grazing within walled garden content farms like Facebook where mass market entertainment, co-mingled with advertising, is the ceaselessly refreshed algorithmic dishof the day, all the better to keep a passively engageduser-base clicking.Facebook is a spare time killer. And spare time is where nerds are born  or rather self-made,by building and breaking things of their own making. Notbyposting comments congratulating someone elseon theircreative new year plans.If the Facebook origin story is true, Zuckerberg built his empireout of a sense of personal frustration. In 2016, personal frustration is just another Facebook status update  where would-be-nerds are encouraged to channel energythat might have beenspentdeveloping themselvesinto sustaining hiseyeball-hijacking machine.Want to be a nerd? Quit checking Facebook every five minutes and go build something of your own.