Ben Narasin was, until recently, president of TriplePoint Ventures, the seed equity practice of TriplePoint Capital. As of this morning, hes instead the fifth general partner with Canvas Venture Fund, which spun out of Morgenthaler Ventures two years ago.Given Narasins background  he founded the e-commerce site FashionMall.com during the last tech boom; he has also made 75 seed-stage investments using his own personal capital; and, full disclosure, hes a regular contributor to TechCrunch  he brings some very specific ideas to the job. We talked with him about them yesterday. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: Why Canvas?BN: It was one off a handful of firms that had spent time talking with me over the last year and Id known all the partners here for between six and eight years. [General Partner] Paul Hsiao and I had worked on things together, starting with the very first deal Id looked at, a wind turbine company. He was at [the firm New Enterprise Associates] at the time and didnt do it. I did, and it went to zero, but the second investment I made, Lending Club, is now a public traded company thats worth billions of dollars. And I fortunately invested a lot more in Lending Club.TC: Youve made a lot of smart seed bets, including on Dropcam [sold to Nest Labs for $555 million last year] and [the highly valued HR software company] Zenefits. But you seem to have a particular penchant for financial tech. In addition to Lending Club, I see [the still private held lending company] Kabbage and [the mobile payment startup] Check [sold to Intuit for $360 million last year] in your portfolio.BN: I dont focus primarily on fintech, but its a big part of what Ive done. Its only now that Im moving from seed to Series A that Ill be [adopting] a more refined focus on narrower areas.What I really want, as you might guess, is to back technologies that are world-changingly cool. When I invested in Dropcam, there was no such thing as the Internet of Things. When I invested in Lending Club, there was no such thing as fin tech.TC: Do you feel daunted by the size of the checks youll be writing? You were investing between $50,000 and $100,000 in these companies. Now youll be writing checks of between $5 million and $15 million.BN: I dont feel daunted by it. Half the companies I funded in my first six years [of seed investing] went on to raised capital from tier one firms, and I had an enormous [education] through that process of getting to know entrepreneurs and help them raise their A and B and sometimes C rounds. You learn a lot about human nature and deal realities and the evolution of companies when youre a very involved investor.TC: You lived through the last bubble. Do you think were in another?BN: I do think people talk about unicorns too much. At the same time, the last private investment in companies that have gone public  even in cases where IPOs were done at lesser valuations than the companys last private rounds  have proved to be phenomenal investments.The nature of the web does create something different where every person on the planet can find [and purchase] something immediately if things line up exactly. That just didnt happen before. So I think things are changing.