Bessemer Venture Partners (BVP) announced itslatest investment fund today with $1.6B in investments. Ithasdubbed it BVP IX. It follows a highly successful BVP VIII.Byron Deeter, a partner at BVP says this is just part of the normal fundraising cycle for the company. They are reaching the end of the previous cyclewhen they launched BVP VIII, and as the funds from that round have been exhausted, they simply want to set themselves up for a smooth transition to the next round.We work roughly on a four year cycle. We were coming to the end of BVP VIII and we like to plan ahead and will start investing in this fund (BVP IX) in the summer time frame, so we dont slow down our investing pace, Deeter told TechCrunch.He said, itwould be making this moveregardless of the investment landscape. It doesntraise funds with an eye to how attractive to the markets are. It is investing regardless of the external economic forces because thats what itdoes, he explained.BVP wontname their investors, but he says its the usual institutional suspects.The firm concentrates on seed rounds and series A and B. Among their hits atthat level are Twilio, Pinterest, Yelp, Skype and Shopify. BVPwill still come in later when it feels it might have missed something early on and believes theres still value, as when it invested later in growth rounds for LinkedIn and Box.BVP is coming off a banner year with 35 new investments and 21 exits of previous ones including the IPOs of 2U, Cerulean Pharma, and Proteon Therapeutics. Others went the mergers and acquisitions route including Amazon snagging Twitch for more than $1B along with Googles purchase of DropCam and satellite imaging startup Skybox.Looking ahead to the next four years, BVP partner Jeremy Levine says the company hopes to expand its investment outside the US. The firmcurrently hasa ratio of approximately two-thirds US investment to one-third outside the US, and itwants to increase worldwide investment where ithas had some success.Itcurrently hasoffices in Israel, and the India (in addition to US offices in Menlo Park, Cambridge and New York ) and the company has had some big hitsoutside the US including French ad-tech company Criteo, which Deeter calls the biggest exit ever over there. BVP hasalso invested in 15-20 companies in London and partners travel there frequently.Weve had an office in Silicon Valley for 30-something years, and our investments our [somewhat] Silicon Valley-centric, but weve always had a world view, Levine explained.Just last week, we wrote about Team8, an Israeli security company, which BVP invested in. Team8 is run by a pair of former Unit 8200 officers, who have a unique approach to cybersecurity. David Cowan, a BVP partner with over 20 years experience investing in security companies took the lead on that.As for investments overthe next 4 year cycle, BVP is looking at a number of areas including many you would expect such as the aforementioned cybersecurity along with mobile, consumer internet and cloud and SaaS.As you would expect, it islooking for companies that take an unusual approach or solve a problem that hasnt been digitized yet. Levinesees a lot of potential in the small business software market where up until recently, it has been expensive for them to install and maintain software. The cloud has changed that and he sees a lot of potential at that end of the market.Deeter says the mobile phone is really driving big changes. One thing we are seeing is the proliferation of devices. Once you have that computer in your pocket and there are peripherals and software and security implications, we are studying this area very carefully and how it all relates to the Internet of Things.Ultimately as Deeter says, BVP isin the business of investing and making money and thats what it hopes to do with this latest fund. We are investors. Creating financial return is the bottom line we need to uphold, he said.