Top SaaS investors have been saying for nearly a year that the next billion-dollar market opportunities are rooted in mobile enterprise apps  software for people who dont sit behind a desk but do keep a smartphone in their pocket.Last month, we talked about the trend with Kevin Spain of Emergence Capital. More recently, we caught up with Byron Deeter of Bessemer Venture Partners, who says Bessemer, which has already made 10 related bets, is similarly making a giant push into more mobile enterprise apps businesses.More from our chat, lightly edited, here:TC: How long have you been focusing on mobile enterprise apps?BD: We probably began focusing on this 18 months ago, with investments that range from pure plays like [the conference calling software company] Speakeasy to vertical applications  meaning they have mobile-heavy use cases or vertical use cases  like [the construction management software company] Procore; ServiceTitan [it makes management software for home services businesses like plumbing]; and ClearCare [which makes software for home care agencies].TC: Something like 80 percent of the 3 billion people in the world who work do not sit behind a desk. Given the opportunities, how do you decide which industries to go after first?BD: We look at industries and market size and sectors. We look at the state of existing technologies. And we try to have hypotheses around which verticals should fall first and where the biggest opportunities should lie. But were also very opportunistic in terms of meeting with great entrepreneurs and trying to find out where traction is happening because often it happens in areas you wouldnt expect. For example, construction wasnt an area we were looking at as an early adopter segment. Now that we work with Procore, it seems obvious in hindsight. But it isnt something you would have seen outside in. It took industry insiders and proactive outreach to understand the power of the trend.TC: Which is suddenly huge. There seem to be a lot of mobile companies now tackling the construction market.BD: There can be multiple winners in these markets; theyre surprisingly big. Take ClearCare in the health care space. Healthcare alone is massive and its just sourcing a small part of it. The company is [focused on] home care workers for a specific type of segment. But there are probably dozens of other opportunities to do mobile-centric things in healthcare, within the hospital setting, within the home setting . . . we think it will be many years in the making, and that these are very early days.TC: What industry do you think is ripe for mobile disruption next?We already have a string of verticals. Weve done a little bit in automotive, weve done some in pharma. Weve been looking at adjacent products. You can literally take the U.S.gross domestic product and slice it by segments, then think about mobility.With alot of these, were looking for the vertical entry point but hopingfor the horizontal use case, where you start somewhere, then move over.TC: Can you give us an example of what you mean? BD: DoubleDutch is one; its a mobile event management applicationthat originally focused ontech conferences, but [has expanded its reach to the]American Cowbell Association and trucker conferences and things. It applies across any business where you have trade shows and where you get dealers and distributors together, but we found them through a vertical thesis.One of the big questions is always market size and where can this go and can it truly play in a horizontal market, and Ill admit that often we dont know the answer when we make the investment. We look for great teams and big ideas, but one of the trade-offs in these vertical bets is that you may reach market size limits much faster than you normally would.TC: How does mobile enterprise adoption differ from what weve seen on the consumer side? BD: Much smaller numbers but much deeper usage and higher monetization. User numbers in consumer markets are staggeringand yourenot going to see that with enterprise apps yet. Buttheir ability to make money is an order of magnitude more. People will pay $30 and sometimes $100 a user per month for a compelling app, versus $3 to download a[consumer]app. There are very few enterprise-class mobile-first or mobile-only apps to reach scale, so were figuring this out togetherbutwe think it will be every bit as exciting as weve seen on the cloud and SaaS side.TC: Are you seeing resistance to the apps in a way that you dont with consumer apps? BD: The [user interfaces] have to be different. A business user wont listen to a tutorial or go to a training session on how to use a product like they use to. An enterprise mobile user now, if they cant figure out your product within the first 30 seconds, theyre gone. And thats the design challenge for these enterprise companies. Theyre very different from SAPs and Oracles and PeopleSofts of years ago, where companies wouldforce their teams to adopt their technologyand go through weeklong training sessions to understand it. Were at the complete opposite end of the spectrum now.TC: Given what youve seen so far, do founders whove built SaaS products previously have an advantage over newly minted entrepreneurs or vice versa?BD: Were seeing a variety of entrepreneurs attack the space. The new, college graduate is often still going more toward consumer because its a market they understand and its more interesting to many people. What weve seen in the enterprise space historically is people whove been forced to use a crappy software product and felt the pain firsthand in an organizationtheyre often the best founders. They know theproblem intimately and know how to solve it.TC: Five years from now, how much of Bessemersresources will be tied up in enterprise mobile companies? BD: Mobile enterprise is a huge focus for us going forward because of the growth of the market. We think a huge portion of the enterprise software landscape will look at tablets and phones as their primary interface. So cloud companies that arent mobile oriented are subject to disruption and a lot of net new use cases that just werent possible before we reached todays mobile ubiquity will be unveiled. We think well see tens of billions of dollars in market cap created by companies that you really couldnt have thought of until mobile platforms reached this level of maturity.