BetterWorks, a platform for employees to set themselves goals, share them with others in their organization and track how well those goals are being met, has raised another $20 million in Series B funding. The company is not disclosing its valuation but we understand from sources close to the dealthat it is around $100 million.Led by Emergence Capital  an early backer of enterprise startups Salesforce, Yammer and Box  with participation from previousinvestors includingKleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and8VC, this brings the total raised by BetterWorks to $35.5 million, including the $15.5 million rounddisclosed when BetterWorks first exited stealth in 2014.Founded by Kris Duggan  an early Palantir employee who went on to found gamification platform Badgeville  BetterWorks plans to use the funding in a few different ways.First, it wants to sign on more big enterprises as customers. My employer, AOL, recently became one of these, with6,000 of my colleagues and Inow posting on the platform about our ambitions to impress (or perhaps supplant! mwhahaha) our lovely bosses with death-defying feats of productivity. Its not just tech companies that BetterWorks is attracting: other big wins among its customer base of 200 businesses areCVSHealth, BMW and Schneider Electric, as well as Airbnb and Shutterstock. To date, BetterWorks says that employees have completed 200,000 goals.And second, to keep building out the BetterWorks platform to become what Duggan and Emergence Captial found and general partner Jason Green both described to me as the operating system for your business.What exactly does that mean? Today, BetterWorks, tapping into the culture of agile working, is built around some basic interactions:employeeswrite up their performance/business/work goals, they look up those of colleagues to potentially match or align them up, and then they periodically check into the system to track how well they are meeting their ambitions.There are no badges built in drawnfrom Duggans gamification expertise, but there are gentle nudges in emails, and a subtle tree that grows (or loses its fruit) in your profile depending on how well you are meeting your goals.Thats all fine and well, but it still relies heavily on employees who are already busy trying to do good work, setting aside time to record and track and update yet another progress report.This is where some of the interesting platform aspects of BetterWorks come into play: Duggansays that BetterWorks has integrated Salesforce and Atlassians project tracking app Jira into its system, and that will give employees who do a lot of their work on theseplatforms the ability to update theirBetterWorks goals automatically basedon those metrics.Wecould give you credit for what you are doing without you even entering the information yourself, Duggan says. Today we have a deep integration with Salesforce so if you have bookings and rates and renewal targets, those automatically contribute to goalsin BetterWorks. He says that the company is working hard to add in more third party software now.That kind of automatic tracking is what potentially positions BetterWorks as a data platformthat can be used for more than just employee personal development. You can imagine how that data, in turn, could be used by compensation committees to determine pay rises, or by a boss to track how larger projects are proceeding, or specific employees and progressing, or more general sentiment and morale at work.Its that bigger opportunity that interests the likes of Green: Were looking for the next generationof iconic enterprise cloud opportunities, he said, andHR is an area we are interested in. Whatwe love about betterworks is the combination of end user propositionand making things more productive. Itsan interesting greenfield opportunity and were excited to back someone pioneering this effort. Krishas done a tremendous job recruiting talent,  with many engineers coming from Palantir to build it  and the more time we spent the more sense we got of their talents and passion about the space. Its an opportunity to create a businessoperating system for the working world.There are of course other companies coming at the problem of productivity and setting goals, and it will be interesting to see how and if these compete or converge in functionality. Others include the likes of Asana and Wrike for productivity and project management, or 15Five for managers to better track and set goals for teams.