Hardware startup Tagit Labs is building a tracking and safety device forextreme sports, focused initially oncycling. Co-founder John Anthony is a competitive cyclist himself, soknows a thing or two about being knocked off his bike.The startup, which was founded a year ago, hasjust kicked off pre-orders for its forthcominggizmo,BikeTagwhich Anthony calls a smart safety tag  with the aim of shipping the first units to buyers in early September. RRP will be$100 for the basic device (which will include auto-tracking and crash detection features). Additional features will cost more via a premium subscription service.While its true there are scoresof GPS trackers for fitness and sports already on the market, the aim with BikeTag is to supplement other trackers with cycling-specific features (such as event-based alerts, like end of ride or crash alerts), and by interoperating with other tracking services. Anthony notes the BikeTag can be set to auto upload workouts to Strava, for instance.Its also aiming to stand out in the space by building arobust, safety-oriented tagwhich requires little agency for continued operation meaning ridersdont have to think about enabling it before each ride or switching on specific safety features. Once its set up, they just get on their bike and go.While I got more into cycling, for fitness/competitive reasons and as a means of commuting to my office, it became clear that there was a gap in the overall safety space for bicyclists. Specifically, there were no products that seamlessly (and automatically) gave the rider and the riders closest family members or friends the peace of mind that they are ok while riding, hetells TechCrunch.You can compare this thinking to the trajectoryofconnected home devices  takingsmart lightbulbs as the first-gen example, whichafford users control over in-homelighting conditions via an app. However, as more and more devices in the home get connected, having to use an app to control everything you own clearly does not scale. And more automated operation starts to lookessential.(Were already seeing some of this thinking instartups like Stack, which is making sensor-enabled lightbulbs, for example. The idea is to find ways to enable the Internet of Things to think for itself.)Tagit Labs sees this sort of automatic operation as a core differentiator for what it hopes will end up as a range of smart safety tagsfordifferent extreme sports. In the first instance, with BikeTag, its using a mix of motion sensors, algorithms and iBeacon tech to power a tracker that tracks as soon as the rider pushes off. It also relies on the GPS radio in a riders smartphone to reduce battery load.To achieve abattery life of greater than a year while simultaneously being 100 percent automatic, we use motionsensors to understand when the bike is being moved in combination with iBeacon technology tounderstand when the rider is in proximity of the bike to begin to turn on the BikeTag safetyfeatures, Anthonyexplains.Even when this condition is met, for example, we still dont turn on all the features atonce as this would create unnecessary drain on the BikeTag and users smart phone battery.Instead, we use motion algorithms and heuristics to turn on certain features when theyre needed.Why does BikeTag need to be separate hardware at all? Couldnt it just be an app on a riders phone if theyre going to need to have that with themanyway? Anthony claims separate tag hardware is needed to reduce battery drain while also enabling more automated operation.He adds thatthe particular sensors its packing into BikeTag are able to provide moregranular crash data than could otherwise be pulled via smartphone sensors  claiming: We will detect every fall/crash with few or no false positives.Very low friction operation is clearly going to become an increasingly key requirement of the Internet of Things as the number of devices proliferates. As isbuilding smart hardware that can operate autonomously in a way that supports what the user wants to do, rather than entirely wresting control out of their hands. Taking the strain without simplytaking charge is the necessary balance.Thus BikeTag does have a companion app whereusers canaccess to fine-grained controls, specifyingwith whom they share their ridestatus, location and crash information, for example. The user is always in control of who sees what, adds Anthony.The team hasproduction units at this stage of the products development  and Anthony says its in the final stages of beta testing.All development ofthe MVP features (auto-tracking, crash detection, crash alerts) are completed. At this point we are working through a punch list of minor fixes to the BikeTag mobile application and incorporatingfeedback from our testers, he adds.Additional work to do before being able to ship to buyers includes finalizing the premium Live Tracking and Ride Alert features.The initial BikeTag will be iOS, but support for Android is in the works, he adds.