Benchmark Capitals Bill Gurley may be Silicon Valleys best-known tech bubble doomsayer, but he took a positive view of the early stage investments in an onstage interview at the Wall Street Journal Live conferenceTuesday.Earliest stage is probably the most insulated from this, he toldthe audience of his belief we are in an impending bubble pop. This is most interesting because Gurley has not been upbeat about nearly everything in tech financing lately  but most especially unicorns, many of whom he believes are waiting too long to go public. The press and the community havegiven a free pass to all these unicorns, he said. Startups staying private too long are like that old guy in college whos stayed around seven or 8 years. Its like Whats he doing? He also said the advice to stay private as long as possible was the worst advice ever given in Silicon Valley.His advice to those in the early-stage startups centered around staying low during this frothy economic period. Just dont rush yourself up to 50 people or somethingfocus on your product, your customer, on being nimble and youll probably ride through all of this, Gurley said.However, Gurley also dodged questions about the giant co-working startup WeWork, of whichBenchmark is an investor. The startup, if you can call a decacorn that, has added more than $1 billion to its coffers  its $355 million Series D round came from several late-stage heavyweights like T. Rowe Price, Goldman Sachs and Wellington Managment.When asked if WeWork was overvalued, Gurley told Journal reporter Rolfe Winkler, I have no idea. Then added, Have you been to one of them?Gurley went back to his usual economic forecasting for most of the discussion, adding, Silicon Valley has entered a period that is speculative and unsustainable, and I personally wish the market would bring them all down so we can get to more realistic valuations.Gurley does not hold back his frank opinion: Companies shouldnt wait to IPO, too many overvalued, liquid is the goal, etc. And the Benchmark general partner mostly stuck to his typical inflated valuations and bubble warning drumbeat during the interview, but also added that this was a good time for those of us using these private startup services.The VC communitys been subsidizing the biggest consumer surplus in history. Consumers should buy everything they can, he said.