Theres no mobilegeddon taking place on Bing, but Microsoft did announce today that its taking steps to improve the search rankings for mobile-friendly websites. The changes follow a similar move by Google which last month rolled out a change to its ranking algorithm whichpenalized sites that arent easily usable from mobile devices. The update wassignificant enough that some began referring to the shift as the mobilepocalyse or mobilegeddon, given the impact it would have on mobile search results.The mobile-friendly updatealso comesat a time whenthe web search business finds itselfat a crossroads. More users are accessing content in native mobile apps, something thatFacebook in particular has capitalized on. Google also confirmedthis month something that many have suspected for some time:thatmore Google searches are now takingplace on mobile devices than on computers, in 10 countries including the U.S. and Japan.Thats why it makes sense that Google would need to optimize its search engine for mobile users. After all, if people use their browsers less on mobile devices than on the desktop web, and therefore do fewer Google searches, that ultimately affects Googles bottom line with regard to its ads business.However, Bing has decided to take less drastic measures compared toGoogle when it comes to adjusting its ranking algorithms to factor in a sites mobile friendliness.In addition to labeling select search results as mobile-friendly, which it began to do just recently, the search service will also now improve the rankings for mobile-friendly webpages.But theres a big difference between Bings approach and Googles: Google is actually penalizing webpages that arent mobile-friendly, meaning those where the text isnt easilyreadable without tapping and zooming, or those wheretap targets need to be spaced moreappropriately, as well as those wherethe page featuresunplayable content or horizontal scrolling.Bing, meanwhile, says that relevant results, even when theyre not mobile-optimized, wont get shoved down in search results.As the company explains today in a blog post:This means that for mobile searches on Bing, you can always expect to see the most relevant results for a search query ranked higher, even if some of them are not mobile-friendly. While the changes will improve ranking for mobile-friendly pages, webpages that are highly relevant to the given query that are not yet mobile-friendly will not get penalized. This is a fine balance and getting it right took a few iterations, but we believe we are now close.Also like Google, Bing is offering webmasters tools that will help them analyze their pages mobile-friendliness ahead of the update, so theyll know what areas of their site need to be fixed. The tool will arrive in a few weeks.The requirements for being considered a mobile-optimized site by Bing arent too different from Googles. Sites will need to be easily navigable by touch, readable within zooming and scrolling horizontally, and compatible with mobile devices (e.g. no Flash). Bing is also considering factors like whether or not the site has pop-ups among other things.Bing didnt say when the ranking changes will take place, only that theyre due to arrive in the coming months.