On Sunday the BBC released the first film commissioned for itson-demand iPlayer:a feature-length documentary about Afghanistan, called Bitter Lake, by experimental British filmmaker Adam Curtis. (If you live in the U.K. you can watch it herefor the next 29 days.)This follows a strategy update, last March, when the U.K.s public service broadcastersignaled that more iPlayer-exclusive content would be part of its on-demand mixgoing forward. The BBCoverhauled the techwith this in mind improving search and responsive design, and, on the content side, identified new forms of storytelling as one of three creative priorities for the platform.Curtis certainly fits the bill on the latter point, even though hehas a long-standing association with the BBC, with several of hispast films beingbroadcast on BBC channels  including The Century of The Self (2002), The Power of Nightmares (2004), and All Watched Over By Machines of Loving Grace (2011). The switch to iPlayer-onlyfilm-making is Curtislatest experiment on what is otherwise the establishments digital platform. So this is contained disruption, but an interesting developmentnonetheless.Analysts characterize the iPlayer refreshas theBBC realigning itself along Netflix-esque lines  with on-demand content presentingboth risk and opportunity for the Corporation as binge-viewing and content consumption on mobile devices grows. Yet at the same time the BBCis still associated with itsestablished broadcast channels. So theres a balancing act here. (The BBC isconsidering making its BBC3 channel iPlayer-only. And has more original programming incoming for iPlayer this year.)Over the last year, weve commissioned more new and different shaped content, exclusive to BBC iPlayer, said Victoria Jaye, head of TV content for iPlayer,last week. The intention is not to compete with our own broadcast channels and programmes, but to complement them  find the gaps, explore whats missing, experimentUnlike broadcast, our starting point for innovation is the on demand need states of our audience, rather than the requirements of the TV schedule. These need states are essentially mood based and interest led  cheer me up, help me escape, give me something thought provoking.OnBitter Lake specifically, Jaye said the aim was to make space for a more emotional type of storytelling.Adams approach to the iPlayer creative opportunity was to build a very different and more emotional way of depicting what really happened in Afghanistan and its legacy today. He has taken the unedited rushes of almost everything that the BBC has ever shot in Afghanistan and used them in new and radical ways to push the boundaries of the documentary form and unveil the extraordinary stories that lie behind events in a powerful and experiential way, she said.If you havent watched any of Curtis films before, Bitter Lake will feel different to moreconventional documentary film formats. Ithas a patchwork,YouTube quality, with deliberately unpolished reels of footage allowed to meander over a landscape thats more oftenglimpsed asstaccato bursts of violence in mainstreamnews bulletins.Curtis lingers on the natural landscape, and on humanmoments outside formally choreographedevents  when kids goof around, whenadults dance or bodies bleedunattended, showing the uncheckedaftermath of violence without form or structure, or reflecting onthe systematic horror of a riot when the camera does not cut away. The effect is curious and startling, and above all disorientingly unfamiliar.Curtistold the London Evening Standard that his aim with allowing so much marginalia footage to play out wasto create an immersive, dream-like mood.It was everything that had happened there over the past 13 years, he says of his source material for Bitter Lake. Some of what the camera shot was incredibly beautiful but generally only 10-second snippets of it had ever been used.Vast tracts of the film simply deliver visuals, sometimes set to music  lackingvoiceover to anchor your viewing, or text captioning which Curtis also sporadically uses to move the narrative along. The result is a piece of filmmaking that feels reflective and multi-faceted, although he is also simultaneously imposing his own narrative on top of this  by arguing that the Wests geopolitical dealingswith radical Islam have beenhypocritical and disastrous for everyone involved except for those with extremist views.This logic linksthe rise ofISIS in Iraq and Syria tothe crude, regional brush strokes of Western politicians failing to grasp the nuanced, complex realities of cultural difference even when they think they are trying to help, andbeing undone by their own historical self-interest (the name Bitter Lake refers to the location of a face-to-face meeting between U.S. President Roosevelt and KingAbdulaziz of Saudi Arabia to broker Americanaccess to Saudi oil).At the end of Bitter Lake, Curtis asserts that what is needed is a new story. And one that we can believe in. In one sense here hes referring to the need for a new geopolitical narrative that avoids the Manicheansimplicity of good vs evil (or The West vs The Rest)  anarrative that attempts to engage with complex geopolitical realitiesin a meaningful way, rather than simplifying tothepoint of distortion. Asimplification that he shows asimplicated in the disastrous decisions and policymaking that have played out in Afghanistan for decades.But whats hes alsocalling for is a new, more pluralist format for storytelling  one that supports thetransmitting ofmultiple perspectives. Andis not allergic to complexity simplybecause the narrativehas to fit anedited time slot. The platform he believes willenable this new storytelling to emerge is evidently the web.Curtis thesis is thatlinearbroadcast news as aformat has itself moulded and shaped geopolitical naivety bycurtailing what the public perceives, and by leaving so many perspectivesunseen  layers that we see glimpsed here in Bitter Lake, in the unwatched footagefrom decades of Western military and political involvement in Afghanistan, now being lifted online where we can see it. (So this is also a bite-the-hand-that-feeds critique of the BBCs traditional, establishment news values and legacy structure as a mediaorganization.)The documentary attempts to redress the distortion by giving space tothese lesser seen layers. The filmitself runs to 136 minutes, inculcating areflectiveatmosphere as theoff-centre camera work is deliberately left to run on and on, illustratingjusthow muchhas beenleft on the cutting room floor. How many gaps there have been in our mainstream news narratives.The experience of Afghanistan has made us begin to realize that there is something else out there  we just dont have the apparatus to see it, Curtis says at the conclusion ofBitter Lake.But thefilm itself implies the apparatus for resetting the media lens is already out there (as the likes of Vice Media might well argue).That linear broadcasting  and its over-simple stories  arealready being unpicked online, and the decentralized perspectivesthat the Internet is broadcastingareboth richer and more confusing, more complex and more true.Finding effective, acceptable and intelligibleways to tell such multifaceted stories  whether youre a creative, a reporter, or a politician  is the big challenge of anincreasinglyfragmented, on-demand, multi-screen age. But its also a huge opportunity to re-set the record, bylifting the media needleout of the well-worn groovesof stereotype.