Marijuana delivery startup Nestdrop is back in operation today, this time in 9 cities spread across the entire West Coast, including in Seattle,Portland, and7 California locations. This now makesNestdrop the only weed delivery service currentlyoperating acrossmultiple states.But things were not looking so good a few months ago for the startup. L.A. city attorneyMike Feuer filed an injunctionagainst Nestdrop back in December and ordered it to cease operations, claiming the startup was illegally delivering pot to residents and places of business, in violation of the citys Proposition D. This was a serious blow to Nestdrop, which only delivered to L.A. at the time.Nestdrop co-founder Michael Pycher tried working with the city to lift the injunction and started a crowd-funding campaign to raise money for legal fees to fight the order. Pychermaintains that the on-going dispute with L.A. city officialshas more to do witha lack of understanding of how his business operates.Nestdrop started out as an alcohol delivery service in L.A., much like Saucey. It added marijuana delivery later on. PychermaintainsNestdrop actsa delivery service that makes things easier for those with medical issues who need marijuana,not an actual marijuana businessthat shouldbe regulated under Proposition D.Our stance is that the patients really needing medical marijuana the most are the ones who cant get to a dispensary and would need it brought to them safely and easily, Pycher said.It should be noted that Nugg, another weed delivery service about to launch in L.A., looks like itoperates in much the same way as Nestdrop but has not been given the same order. Nugg has not started operations yet, butco-founderAlex Milligan believes his weed delivery startupwill not fall into the same problems as Nestdrop.Nestdrop went about things in a way that blatantly disregarded California and Los Angeles city laws & regulations, Milligan told TechCrunch. Were operating in full compliance with Prop D, meaning we dont permit deliveries within the boundaries set forth by the measure, and are working closely with a legal team to ensure were adhering to all laws within the local municipalities were operating.In the meantime, Nestdrop has tried to work with L.A., all while quietly seeding plans to deliver inother cities, including San Francisco where there are a more than abundant supply of on-demand weed startups promisingfast delivery straight to everyone in Silicon Valleys door.Its kind of funny. Our competitors probably thought we were dead and thats what we wanted them to think while we were going about this other option, said Pycher.Nestdropis now blazingahead on scaling operations in the 9 new locations. It will continue delivering alcohol and working on the injunction in L.A., as well as delivermarijuana to those with a licensed medical marijuana card to the following cities:Seattle
Portland
San Francisco
Stockton
Pasadena
Glendale
Select parts of Orange County
Oceanside
San DiegoThe Nestdrop iOS app will still allow the purchase and delivery of alcohol in L.A. The marijuana delivery portion is not on the app due to App Store rules. However, those with an iPhone who would like to order marijuana in the cities in which Nestdrop now operates can do so either on the Nestdrop website or by textingsmile to 27126 to get a link to download the separate on-demand weed delivery app. Those with an Android phone can order either alcohol or marijuana via the same app on Google Play.