U.K. hardware startup Blocks Wearables, which is in the process of building amodular smartwatch shown off inconcept-form in thisteaser video last fall, and originally inspired by Googles Project Ara modular smartphone has confirmed the device will runon a modified version of Android Lollipop, rather than the Google Wear platform.Also today the team hasrevealedthe devices core modulewill be powered by aQualcomm Snapdragon 400 chipset, with peripheral modules using ultra-low-power ARM processors.The basic idea is to build acustomizable smartwatch which allows the ownerto choosetheindividual modules that make up the bracelet to tailor its functionality. (Such as adding in additional battery capacity, or selecting a heart rate monitor for fitness tracking.)The first core module (aka the watch face unit) will be a circular color touchscreen unit.Blocks is alsopartnering with U.K. luxury menswear jewelry brand Tateossian to offer further user customization on the design side  viaa range of colored/textured shells tojazz up the look and feel of individual modules.A crowdfunding campaign to help get Blocksconcept smartwatchbuilt and shipped was due to kick off early this year but that still hasnt happened  although the team has already taken in somepre-registrations for pre-orders. Itnow says its aiming for a summer crowdfunder.It took us some time to sign a manufacturing agreement with [Taiwanese ODM] Compal to produceBlocks in mass scale at launch, says co-founder Alireza Tahmasebzadeh, explaining why the delay in launching acrowdfunder. He adds theyalso decided to wait to get Qualcomm on board, and have been working on refining theconnector design (which is used to link the different modules of the smartwatch) in the meanwhile.The production will go much faster since we already have secured a manufacturing partner;  and all the components and circuitry of the core module (the most expensive and difficult to produce) have already been finalized. The next step is to finalize the details of our modules and start manufacturing. The device will be shipped 7-8 months after the campaign, he adds.Blocks is opting forLollipop rather than Googles wearable flavor of Android because the former supports more functionality.For example, Android Wear does not support cellular connectivity, at least yet, says Tahmasebzadeh. Thats why we are basing Blocks on a version of Android Lollipop, optimizing it for power consumption, changing the User Interface for a circular display, and adding the necessary changes to Androids Linux kernel to reflect modularity.Another important reason for using Android Lollipop rather than Android Wear is because we wanted Blocks to be compatible with both iOS and Android (and possibly WP). The future of Android Wear compatibility for iOS is still not certain, he adds.Whats left to do in terms of development work at this stage? Finalizing hardware modules and, on the OS side, checking the performance of the core module with peripheral modules, according to Tahmasebzadeh.The most difficult piece, the core block with process, display and bluetooth, is fully designed and tested.The modular power management system (a system we had developed so that you can attach any number of batteries, regardless of how much charge they have, anywhere in the chain) is also designed and tested. The batteries can be charged individually or all together when the watch is connected to the adapter, he says.The modular platform, communications and power is tested and works as we intend it to. The connectors and the design works and is very comfortable.The current Blocks prototype looks like this:Ultimately, the hardware and software complexities ofputting togethera functioning modular smartwatchmay end upas nothing to the challenge of finding a marketforsuch a highly customizable and therefore necessarily fiddly product  at least outside niche gadget enthusiast circles.The other key question will be cost, especially as Blocks will be competing with smartwatches (and smartphones) being crammed with ever more sensors as is. So the concept of swapping certain modulesin or out might end up being eclipsed by the rising capabilities of rival devices. Not least because of the time its taking to get the product to market. (Even Google still hasnt putAra in consumers hands yet.)Modularity seems like a fascinating idea on paper but it remains to be proven out intheconsumer electronics space where devices needs must be robust and upgrade cycles arepunishingly brief.