The death knell has been sounded for local journalism at regular intervals during the digital era. Craigslist ate classifieds and gobbled up the localnewspapers business model in the process. Then social media served up a free stream of gossip fromyour social circle and interest groups, pulling readersattention away from the printed page. Safe to say, its been something of a perfect storm batteringtraditional local news media.Yet there has never been so many sources of local news available, giventhe web has removedbarriers topublishing, social media has got everyone accustomedto self-publishing (and self-publicizing), and smartphones are ubiquitous e-readers in everyones pockets. Local newsis out thereand people are interested in reading stuff, sodistributingrelevant contentto the right people is onenew challenge.And thats where Blockfeed comes in. ThisNew York city-based startup isaggregating local news sources, from small blogs to established newspapers, geolocating relevant news storiesto a hyper local location  such asa particular street or block  and then serving those storiesto readers based on where they happen to be at the time they open the mobile app. Thanks to smartphonelocation-positioningtech, knowing a readers location is trivial.Blockfeed users are redirected to the actual news source if they tap to read the story, with the app just acting as a local news source aggregation and distribution platform. In theory  and if it gains significant traction  the platform could help to level the playing field for local bloggers competing for attention with established media outlets by surfacing their content alongside more mainstream media new stories.The front page, which is our primary way of displaying information to the user, uses distance as the major relevancy factor. But it also uses social activity as part of how we prioritize things, explains co-founder and CEO PhilPerkins.So, for example, if an article is getting shared a lot on social media its relevancy goes up. But one thing thats cool that we do is we actually normalize that kind of velocity against the publication itself  so we enable even small blogs to theoretically compete against your major publications, like your New York Daily News or your New York Times.Currently the app is live in New York City only, after soft launchingon iOS at the start of last month. Thus far its gained around 900 active users without any marketing. Its launching onAndroid today, and stepping up the noise.Perkins tells TechCrunch the ambitionis to replicate the model in othermajor urban cities in the U.S. This is our first major push to market the app publicly. Our retention numbers have been awesome, and our median sessions per day has been about 2.2 for the past month, he says.We want dense urban areas, and we want a high-quality local journalism scene, he adds, discussing where it may expand the app to next. We are going to be cherry picking cities. Its very likely we will continue a bit on the East Coast and then ultimately jump to San Francisco and LA. So on the East Coast potential candidates might be Boston, Washington DC, Philadelphia.When a given area is pretty much well served by one single publication and there arent many people engaged in publishing blogs and theyre not really engaged in their community from a journalistic perspective theres really no purpose for Blockfeed.Blockfeeds approach isa rethinking of how you slice and dice local news media. It replaces the role of human editors deciding whichcontent goes on the front page with location technology plusa pretty simple algorithm that assesses how new astory is and looks at how many social media shares its gained to determine what content to dish upto the reader.The startup is not purely tech driven. It is currently employing one human to cast an eye over the news stories its pulling in  Perkins refers tothis process as ingesting  tomake a final call on whether stories should be included (i.e. whether they are relevant as local news), and,crucially,to help verify the location of the story (such as by cross-checking with Foursquares location API or Google Places).To be clear, the human is not acting as an editor in the sense of fact-checking these local news sources. Blockfeed is aiming to be a platform, not a publication in its own right, so its human employee is acting more in a curatorial than editorial capacity.There are several stages of transformation that occur to map [local news] content to content thats suitable for the Blockfeed platform. Theres an attempt at categorizing it, so thats using some machine learning, theres an attempt to extract location, theres some cases where these feeds actually contain location data  thats extremely rare though, its like one percent of the time  so were using some named entity recognition, and were pulling places of significance from it, says Perkins.A city like New York city which has a flow rate of, lets say, 700 articles a day, one single editor is able to handle that entire feed. Theyre pretty much extremely rapidly confirming that most of the fields have been populated properly, potentially geolocating it and approving the article confirming that the data is correct and the location is correct.At the end of the day we really depend on really high quality data. We ultimately want good location reads on every article that we ingest. So often there is a human being involved. But that human being is augmented with this technology that Ive built, he adds.Does this hybrid tech plus human eye approach scale? Yes argues Perkins. When you look at even a medium-sized publication they actually maintain quite a large staff of editors. I can achieve complete coverage of New York City at this point with one single human curator. So I believe I can start scaling out to multiple cities with just a handful of editors, and ultimately be in every major American city with what you might consider a normal size staff for a publication.The other question here is quality. Given Blockfeed is not verifying the accuracy of the news its pointing people to it cant be compared with a newspaper  where the editorial staff is there to fact check and stand up stories.Ultimately were attributing all of the content to the sources, and we just direct you to the third party site to actually view the content, admitsPerkins. So its very much reader beware when it comes to judging the veracity of the local news they are discovering via the platform.Moreover, while locally motivated bloggers may be keen (or incentivized) to cover certain types of local news, say like a new trendy bar opening on their block, other less easy to reporton/monetize communitygoings-on may well fall through the cracks of acitizen journalism, crowdsourced news model.So while Blockfeed is aninteresting ideafordistributing local news to an engaged localcommunity thirsty to hear about new stuff on their block  and as a way tosupport local bloggers by bringing them additional, engaged readers  its a stretch at this stage to say whether it might be able to fill some of thegaps left by the digital decimation of a robust, well-resourced local press engaged in the often tedious but democratically vitalrole of scrutinizing local politics.Still, Blockfeed is a business first and foremost, rather than a social crusade to save local journalism. And the team sees big potentialfor itsplatform to generate richlocal data that could be monetized vialocal contextual advertising or byselling as B2B intel to third parties wanting to move in on a particular local community.As a business model ultimately all of our users are coming to Blockfeed for their local news. We are aware of their location or whatever location theyre actually interested in viewing, and were aware of all this local content so if you think about that its actually a great platform for local, contextual advertising, says Perkins.The data itself is actually really valuable. And there are potentially many different commercial clients. These arent just dry data points. These arent just simple crime statistics These are actual news articles and theyre chock full of information. They were written by human beings, they may contain links and all kinds of other information  so its a really rich data-set to be geolocated.We will be the top source for that kind of urban information.So lets say Im areal estate agent, for example. I can actually show you the real cultural history for the past two months of this block with this data. Im not just giving you empty crime statistics. Or lets say Im McDonalds and Im looking for the location of my next chain restaurant or whatever I can actually see, for this given section of the city. What are the history of openings and closings of businesses so I can assess my risk? So I think ultimately that data-set that were building will potentially be very valuable.