MLB Advanced Media started streaming baseball games in 2002  way back before live streaming had become as prevalent as it is today  and thats part of the reason CEO Bob Bowman said at TechCrunch NY that MLBs streaming service is as successful as it is today.We made all our mistakes when no one was watching. We gained some expertise, and our footprint was so big, just hardware, as well as people monitoring 15 live games every day for six months, Bowman said. People started calling us. We started by saying why dont we do it in the offseason. It turns out there isnt an offseason. Were chargingfor it; you have to make sure it works.MLB Advanced Media is a limited partnership of the club owners of Major League Baseball. Since launching, streaming has become 15 percent of MLBs business, and is growing quickly, Bowman said. MLB has added a suite of stats that go with those streams, measuring everything down to the exit velocity of a batters bat.Theres a ready-made audience for content to be delivered to phones, he said. Theres a lot of handoffs; nothings quite as easy. But its much more reliable, it looks great, and we have a generation now thats come to expect it.In some ways,thatmove seems prescient based on how many services are now streaming video. HBO most recently launched its own streaming service, HBO Now, on Apple devices. Netflix, too, is available on most devices. Younger viewers, Bowman said, are not as tolerant of services that arent available on mobile devices.One of the challenges that remains, he said, was dealing with blackouts for games. Its something the MLB is trying to figure out with the commissioner and teams, but everyone has to give an inch, he said.Still, Bowman said paid TV wasnt going away anytime soon.Ithink for my generation, paid TVisnt gonna go away, he said. Were used to it, we grew up with it. It may be a melting iceberg but I think its pretty cold water. But I do think for the next generation, they want it when they want it on the device they want it. Whether thats on the big screen or their personal device, thats how theyre gonna want it.