
Michael Schneider is the founder and CEO of Service.In the 1970s, CFOs sat with CEOs and devised ways for upset consumers tonotbe able to get compensation easily. They put up automated phone systems and arcane and inflexible policies and rejoiced at how little the company had to give up to complaining customers.And this system worked until social media gave every average Joe the same power as societys most prominent citizens to get a companys attention when they werent happy.Watching F8 last month, one couldnt help but wonder if the futureis truly as simple as opening a chat and texting what you need. Order flowers  Get news  Check the weather  Handle customer serviceissues?How many of uswho have called our cable company and been on hold forever wouldnt love to chat with a rep and get our issue handled in a minute (Amy Schumer would agree)? How many of us would love to chat with an airline and resolve an issue in real time? While these things sound great in theory, its not quite so simple.Chat is a better medium than the phonefor most people, especially younger people. But it doesnt solve everything. An inarticulate consumer is going to be inarticulate over chat. A rep thats having a bad day is going to be just as inflexible and unsympathetic in a chat.Changing the medium isnt a silver bullet forcustomerservice.Botscan help withcustomerservice. They can gather information for the eventual interaction with a human rep, understand exactly what happened and what the consumer wants andeven be empowered to solve basic issues, automatically.Botshave been around a long time  phone systems ask you to speak your account number, say what youre calling about or push a digit corresponding to what you want. The difference is that, while those kinds ofbotstypically annoy customers, chatbots have the potential to have the reverse effect.The right balance of bot and human is going to be different for each company, and it depends greatly on the quality of the bot  and, of course, the quality of their human customerservicereps.I believe in an intelligent mix of humans andbotsto get the job done  the job being making a consumer happy when things go awry, while being fair to the business.Over time, AI (bots) will get smarter, and brands will trust it more to solve issues for them. Imagine the cable company allowing you to schedule an appointment in 30 seconds via a chat (versus 5-25 minutes on the phone). Imagine a retailer replacing a defective product in seconds. Or a hotel making up for a bad experience by awarding points.Botscan handle allthese scenarios automatically, freeing up the brands valuable (and expensive) reps to handle the issues that truly require a human touch.FacebooksMessengerplatform is just one of manyfuture platforms where youll be able to handlecustomerservice issues. By blending smart software with a light human touch, consumers will have a better experience when they need customerservice, and companies will avoid nasty tweet storms, negative online reviewsand the kind of brand damage consumers are now capable of inflicting when theyre upset.Thefutureofcustomerserviceis making it easy for consumers to go through the medium they want (likely not the phone), have an experience that respects their time and have issues resolved quickly, ideally without involving a human at all (via intelligent software).In thefuture, customerservice wont be something consumers dread having to call, it will be something that builds powerful relationships with consumers. The best marketing is great customerservice, and chatbots are a great step forward.