Bottlenose, a big data analytics firm which likens itself to a real-time Palantir, referencing its focus on tracking, filtering and analyzing stream data, has raised $13.4 million in Series B funding, an SEC filing shows and the company now confirms. The round was led byKPMG Capital, a new fund created byKPMG International to invest in data and analytics globally. Bottlenose is the first public and significant investment the fund has made, notes company co-founder and CEO Nova Spivack.News of KPMGs involvement in Bottlenose was announced back in December, when it wasrevealed that KPMG Capital would now have asubstantial equity share in the company. However, that news was only a part of the overall funding event, which also see new investor Origin Ventures joiningalongsidereturning investors, including Lerer Ventures, Transmedia Capital, ff Venture Capital, and others.To date, Bottlenose has raised roughly $17 million.Spivack says that while the company has now closed on$13.4 million, the round allows the company to raise more. But we dont necessarily need to or have to, he says. The money is sufficient for what we need to dowe do have some interest, and there are some discussions happening, Spivack says. In addition, Bottlenose plans to raise significantventure debt on top of the $13.4 million, which itself was a combination of mostlyequity and debt. (Bottlenose may offer an update when the round officially closes).The funding will go towards helping the company continue to grow the business, expanding both its product line and team, whichtoday numbers around 40 full-time and will head towards 80, thanks to the new capital.Bottlenose, by way of background, offers large enterprise customers a high-performance, cloud-based solutionthats capable of analyzing massive amounts of real-time data, in order to proactively identify things like emerging risks, threats, crises, opportunities, breaking news, and more.To put its capabilities into perspective, Twitter currently sees around abillion messages a day on its service, says Spivack, while Bottlenose is now analyzing 72 billion data records and messages daily.The company began its life focusing on social stream data  that is, data streaming out from social networks and services which marketers wanted to analyze quickly. But it soon found product-market fit within large global players, expanding first intoresearch and then enterprise data. To date, Bottlenose has worked with 18 global organizations, includingnames likePepsi, Warner Bros., DigitasLBI, Razorfish, FleishmanHillard, and others.It has since expanded far beyond social data, too. It now analyzes 98% of live TV and radio data in real-time, says Spivack  thats 40 hours of video and audio per minute being measured usingspeech-to-text conversions. Its also now adding in enterprise data sources, including things like sales data, log data, transaction data, and even firewall data.In fact, detectingintrusions is a growing opportunity for Bottlenose, given how prevalent data breaches are these days. Explains the CEO, what makes the products capabilities so interesting here is its ability to correlate data from across sources. If hackers are talking about a company, and we see also corresponding, correlated activity on that companysfirewall, thats actually a good indicator that theres actually something happening, says Spivack. Some of Bottlenoses now eight patents coverthese sorts ofcapabilities, headds.Whats different about Bottlenoses system is that its customers dont need to know what theyre looking for in order for the data to be useful. Instead, Bottlenose just analyzes everything that comes in, and is then able to point companies to emerging threats and issues, whether thats a new competitor, or even just a new opportunity.We analyze everything we seeby doing that, we find these unknown things you didnt know to ask for, Spivackexplains. The system is designed to handle any kind of data  structured or unstructuredif its stream data, our system is designed to make sense of that.Unlike companies like Palantir, which tends to work with static data sets, Bottlenose customers tend touse itssystem ina number of areas where data needs to be analyzed in real-time, because time is a keyadvantage. That includes things like financial services, trading, real-time ad buying, or even fending off attacks.(Of note: while Spivack wouldnt confirm Palantirs interest specifically, he would say that there have been offers in the past thathe turneddown in terms of acquisitions.)Today, Bottlenose reaches itscustomers through a cloud-based solution known as Nerve Center, but Spivack says that later this year, theyllbe making some announcements related to becoming more of a full-stack company.There will be a lot of interesting news about the platform later this year, he hints.