Box announced today that it was hiring former EMC executive Jeetu Patel to head its platform business.Patel will have the titlesenior vice president of platform and chief strategy officer. Hisprimaryresponsibility will bebuildingout the Box Developer Editionproduct, which enables developers to take advantage of services built on the Box platform to createapplications without having to use the core product.Forthe firsttime, [customers] can license ourplatform separately to include all of the Box capabilities into your apps, Box CEO Aaron Levie explained. Its our Force.com moment where we are separating outthe platform, and starting to see an all-new business model emerge from this, he said.Force.com isSalesforce.comsPlatform as a Service offering, which has enabled developers to createapplications on top of the Salesforce platform. It has been a catalyst for launchingentire businesses such as FinancialForce.com (which has raised over $186 million) and Apttus (which has raised $78 million). Boxis hoping that Patel can help drive the same type of success.Patelbrings 20 years of enterprise content management industry experienceto the task. Most recently hewas General Manager of the Syncplicity Business Unit at EMC, whichoffered cloud storage and syncing solutions, andis the obvious tie-in with Box. When EMC sold Syncplicity to a private equity firm last month, it wasnt clear where Patel would land. Now we know.Patel seemed excited by the new challenge and particularly buildingBox Developer Edition into a more mature product.The reason its exciting is that it starts as a force multiplier. If enterprise software bothered you before, startups built one applicationto solve the problem. Now we are powering a generation of applications, all powered by Box on the back end, he said.Hell be working with third-party developers and ISVs to build independent applications, enterprise customers to build applications for their internal or external ecosystems and systems integrators working with enterprise customers.In fact, it was Patels experience working in these areas that led Box to hire him. This is a core factor that led us to want to work with him. His experience and domain expertisein this market is incredibly important to accelerate our strategy in this space, Levie explained.Levie has been hinting atexposingBox as a set of services for some time. The company is betting that as it builds out its core product and offers additional services, it will make the platform all themore attractive to third-party developers. The two approaches will feed off one another, giving those customers who use the core product access to new features, while makingthose same elements available to developers to use in applications.It also creates some separation from competitors.If you were to ask, most people would probably say Box is a storage and file sharing service, but its addedfeatures over the years that place it more in the content management realm (putting the Patel hire in clearer context).If you think about what weve been doing, weve building the next generation content management platform. The enterprise file sync and shareis how weve been perceived, but is a feature [of the platform]. We are happy that we are aleader in that space, but when you peel back the onion and see the capabilities of Box and the customers who have had the most transformational experience, itsbecauseof the underlying technology, Levie said.Box is hoping developers will use the services ithas developed such assuch as metadata, security and governance and enterprise key encryption or any other feature in the core product to build entirely new applications. As Patel put it, developers use Stripe when they need payment services, and they would use Box when they need to build an application with content services.The Box Developer Edition will be generally available in the third quarter.This is not the first time Box has looked to EMC for an experienced executive. It hired former EMC CMO Whitney Bouck to head its marketing effortsback in 2011.