Update: I got some of Boxs product lineup mixed up. Ive edited the post not just for clarity, but also for Being Frakking Wrong. Apologies from your humble servant.Boxs platform product, the aptly named Box Platform, is now generally available,as the companypromisedat its recent conference. Box recently hiredJeetu Patel away from EMC to run the new service.If you thought Box already had a platform, hang tight. Box now comes in two flavors. There is Box proper, a SaaS product that Box hosts and that companies can purchase on a per-seat basis.And now there is Box Platform, which takes Box technology and allows developers to deployit as a content management backend inside of their own applications. So just as a company might use Braintree to manage payments inside of their app, Box Platform is a way to handle content and the like.Key to the difference between Box Platform and the companys other offering is that it can disappear into the background. A user of an app that employs Box Platform might not know that theyareusing Box at all.Why slip into the background? We can answer that in reverse by using a Satya Nadella concept: Revenue is a lagging indicator. Thats to say that if you are driving usage, you will see revenue pop out the other end. And if, in this case, Box can bolster usage of its technology by allowing itself to fade into the bushes, who really cares.Box, which has seen its share price decline in recent months, has consistently raised its revenue forecasts for its current fiscal year. Perhaps this products forthcoming availability was component to those estimate revisions.The company certainly intends to charge for the product, which, aside from a free tier for experimentation, starts at $500 per month. If you need more than 100 users, prepare to pay more. And thats before add-ons like increased encryption and the like. Thats not to say that its an expensive product per se, but merely one that Box appears set to monetize from the get-go.It will be interesting to see if the company discloses financial performance of Box Platform at its next earnings call. Strap in.