Morechanges afoot at Google+. TechCrunch has learned, and now confirmed with Google, that David Besbris has left his role as the head of the companys social and identity product. He has been replaced by Bradley Horowitz, a longtime VP of product for Google+.Update: Horowitz has confirmedour reportingin a carefully worded Google+ update that does not mention Hangouts, or even Google+ by name, but instead refers to Photos and Streams. This points to the idea of Google+ being splitinto dedicated services, two of which Horowitz will oversee:Just wanted to confirm that the rumors are true  Im excited to be running Googles Photos and Streams products! Its important to me that these changes are properly understood to be positive improvements to both our products and how they reach users.Besbris only took over Google+ less than a year ago, in April 2014, after Vic Gundotra  who had started and ledGoogle+ since its inception  left the company.And it was only in October 2014 that Besbris, reclining in a pool of plastic bubbles (prettyironicin retrospect), told Re/code that Google was in social and Google+ for the long haul.Well, Google+ may not be completely disappearing, but it does seem to be getting dismantled (as we reported it would).Ahead of an appearance on Mondayat the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Sundar Pichai  Googles SVP of products  last week gave an interview to Forbes in which he hinted that Photos and Hangouts would be moving out of the Google+ product group.I think increasingly youll see us focus on communications, photos and the Google+ Stream as three important areas, rather than being thought of as one area, he told Forbes.Tellingly, atthe time, the Google executive publicly commenting on that statement was not Besbris, but Horowitz.Some great comments from +Sundar Pichaiabout future product direction for Google+, Photos, Hangouts, Horowitz wrote on his G+ page. Weve been working hard on these changes and Im really excited about what these will mean for our users. As +Radioheadsays, Everything in its right place'Its not clear whether Horowitz is a long-term or short-term replacement while Pichai considers what to do next.Meanwhile, there seem to be some wider personnel changes, as well. Weve also heard  but have not been able to confirm with Google  that theres been a lot of attrition at Google+ amidsome low morale. At the time of Gundotras departure, there were between1,000 and 1,200 people working on Google+. Asource estimatesthat around half the team is gone, although there has also been some staffing up in Photos and Hangouts.Noone was asked to leave, no teams were transferred,but few (if anyone) weregiven incentives to stick around, the source says. People expressed concerns to management but while Google was sympathetic, there was attemptto try to convince people to stay.Its not clear what role Besbris will be taking next.Like Horowitz, hehas been with Google since 2008.