If theres one thing as diverse and multi-faceted as Asian culture it would probably be the regionse-commerce landscape.Theres no single dominant player  like Amazon or eBay in the West  and things are very different from country to country. Alibaba and JD dominate China, Rakuten owns Japan, Coupang is Korea. Thingsgetparticularly segmented in emerging markets like Southeast Asia, where Rocket Internet has invested nearly a billion dollars in building services from scratch, or India, where domestic unicorns Flipkart, Snapdeal and Paytm battle with Amazon.Choice and competition isgood for consumers, but it sure makes things tricky for merchants. Assuming that you want to reach shoppers through as many touchpoints as possible (you do), then youre going to be using a handful of e-commerce sites to sell your stuff in Asia.Beyond just spending time on different sites and dashboards, that means youll bemanaging tricky issues  like inventory, demand, outbound packages and more  manually across a range of different (competing) websites. Thats basically a whole separate job in itself.Indeed, thats what the founders of onenew startup, Branch8, believe. With their service, they are aiming to make a difference and make selling across manysites something that any merchant can do with ease.Founded by a team withexperience from across thee-commerce ecosystem  CEO Elton Chan led electronics at Rocket Internets Lazada, his CTO was formerly with Facebook and Microsoft, while his COO and CPO were top retailers onmarketplace services  Branch8 wants to be a one-stop shop for selling onmarketplaces.The idea for the service came to Chan duringhis time with Lazada, whenhe would work closely with selling partners. Looking at their accounts, Isaw the issues they had listing and managing marketplaces and country sites, he said.Branch8, which is based in Hong Kong, is part ofY Combinators currentSummer 2015 class. It opened thedoors to its service on an invite-only basis back in May, but todayit is now publicly available to all merchants. Chan told TechCrunch that, right now, Branch8 has nearly 1,000 sellers (and over 600,000 products) who areprocessing over $1 million in sales per month onits platform.Beyond consolidating the basic processes beyond selling viamultiple services  Amazon, Lazada, Rakuten, eBay and Jumia are among the initial platforms supported Branch8 alsoprovides analytics to track traffic, it automates price checking and product migration, and connects to third-party logistics services. Those value-adds, Chan said, arewhere it believes it can really stand out for merchants.Our differentiator is analytics, he told TechCrunch in an interview. Few tools track traffic via SKU. While our price tracking tool and the convenience of migrating to new platforms, this process is very manual, are specifically designed to meetmerchants pain-points.The service is initiallyfree to use for three months, after which a subscription-based pricing model kicks in. Packages begin at$315 per month, rising to $715 for merchants with larger product ranges and more intensive customer service requirements.YC has been keen to increase the diversity of its batches, but that can be a tricky thing to do when non-U.S.startups (and the core of theirbusinesses) are inparts of the world where the accelerator program has less experience and knowledge. Yet, Chan told us, the program has been hugely influential particularly around product development strategy.Were quite open [to new ideas] and heard a lot of good things about YC, the network and way to develop the product is very powerful. The mentorship has been very valuable for us, itsopened our eyes to certain ways of thinking, he said.