Radically transparent social media scheduling firmBuffer, which does stuff like publish its staff salaries and publicly detail itscompany revenue,has announced its first major acquisition  buying social media customer support tool Respondlyfor  wait for it  an undisclosed amountWhy the lack of transparency on the deal price? Buffer co-founder and COO Leo Widrich sayshewould like to have published that too but Respondly wasnt so keen on being quite so radically transparent. And we dont want to force our views on others, he adds.Fair enough.Buffer has actually bought another startup before butWidrich dubs that a tiny deal  characterizing this asits first properacquisition, given Respondly had raised money;has customers (59), including the likes of Slack, Pocket and Stripe; and is taking revenue.So, first upwhat is Respondly? The startup launched in April 2014, co-foundedby engineersTim Haines and Phil Cockfield who spiedan opportunity to stand out in the social media customer support space by keeping things simple and applyingstrong, minimalist product design to focus andstreamlinecustomer support teams workflow intoa shared inbox.While, up to now, Buffer has focused its energies on the social media publishing side  offering tools to users to schedule their social media marketing missives and analyze performance, with nothing to help companies wanting to respond to incoming customer communications generated by social media.So Respondlys product adds another string to Buffers bow  one whichWidrichs says its customers hadbeen asking for.Time and again people would come to us and say I would love for you to also help me with the other side of social media  the monitoring and the replying, and the community work and the customer service. The reactionary part, instead of the publishing and the analytics and the forward looking part, he says.We didnt want to just get bloated and pack as many features as we could into one place and make it like it can do everything  we always wanted to be more focused than that, in terms of how the product feels and what it doesHowever it was a good point  it was a very important part of peoples social media and so we kept going back and forth, what shall we do  shall we go and build something like that? Is this too early? Are we going to stretch ourselves too thin? All these questions that you might ask yourself.Despite a degree ofcustomer demand, Buffer was not actively looking for companies in the social media response segment to acquire at this point in its history. Nor was it actively planning to build something itself. At best it was mulling overthe opportunity. But, as chance would have it, Respondly came knocking  withHaines making a direct approach as he and his co-founder looked for a new home to parktheir startup.Why were they shopping Respondly now? The way they tell it, its a feature not a standalone business.The next step for Respondlys growth is figuring out how to get it into as many hands as possible, and for us, partnering with a larger company like Buffer has a tremendous upside for quickly expanding Respondlys impact, says Haines, when asked why the team decided to seek an exit at this point,rather than carrying on developing Respondlythemselves.Buffer are experts in the domain, have a perfectly complementary product, and are well known for their transparency and integrity. They also have 45,000+ customers who already see the value of investing in great social media tools, that they can introduce Respondly to.Respondly has customers who love the product, and depend on it every day. The paying customer base is growing, but not fast enough to continue running Respondly as a stand-alone venture backed business, he adds. When we weighed it up, it made rational sense for everyone involved  the customers, the investors, Buffer, and the Respondly team to sell the product to Buffer.From Buffers point of view, while the call from Haines was serendipitous in terms of meshing with what some of its customers wereasking for, the decision to move ahead and make an offer to acquire Respondly boiled down to conducting a cost/benefit analysis ofwhether it was better for Buffer to build the feature itself or buy Respondly outright and obtainan off-the-shelf product plus a swathe ofcustomers in one fell swoop.The assessment process involved modeling the buy or built scenarios using some good old-fashioned spreadsheeting, saysWidrich  a very difficult process that inevitably involved a lot of guesstimates and extrapolation. An exact science this is not (see also: VC).We built this spreadsheet and we modeled these two scenarios  one is build, one is buy. And so the build scenario we would say okay, today is December 15, if we were to start building this today  which we werent even in a position of even starting it at that point but you need to make some assumptions. So say we were to start building this today, we dont have the team right now, so we need to start hiring and build this team  or take it off from other teams and start building this first version.And so it takes us maybe two months to hire a full time team. And, say, maybe five to eight people. Then we have that team, and after two months they start building it  then we say if were fast we can get a first version out say within four months. And so that means six months from now we might have the first version that we can slowly start to introduce to certain customers. Obviously that first version will be very minimal, so it will take up some time to ramp up.So then we went further and we said okay, how do we go from the six months, we start with zero MRR  so zero monthly revenue for that product  and then how fast do we think we can build the revenue out, and build the feature set and also hire more people into that team. And so we extrapolated that out. So we start with zero and we started thinking okay within the first month we can probably get to $5,000 in MRR, and that already feels very significant because we probably need to get 100 paying customers in the first month or something like that. Which is in itself, really tough. And then we model that out further.The goal we set ourselves was how long will it take us roughly to get to $100,000 MRR. And the conclusion that weve come to in the build model is that would be half way through 2018. So after we launch it it would probably take us 18 months or six months from now when we launch it it will take us another 18 months roughly to get to $100k MRR. And the way we came to that was we looked at Buffers own data that we had  how long it took us to get to that number, and factoring in okay weve gotten smarter since then. We know more, we have a customer base we can market to so we can probably do it a lot faster. That brings us to this time period of  I think  April 2018, saysWidrich, talking through Buffers thoughtprocess on the build option.Another factor itassessed here was associated cost. Every person that works on that [respond product] team is cost, especially the first six months when we dont even make any money from that, he notes. Were just basically burning money. Say we have eight people, each cost roughly $120,000/$100,000 a year and so for six months say thats $60k per person times eight. So thats like $480k just for the first six months of development.The investment, I think we came to, is probably close to I think $1.5M to $2M  and that assumes we will eventually get to $100k MRR That may never happen. We may never get traction and we just wasted a bunch of money, so we may never get that money back.On the buy opportunity side, Buffersmodel considered development cost savings and the risk reduction element given Respondly is an existingproduct with some customers  off-setting all that against the cost of the acquisition (whatever that is)  so not only the six month dev time it had estimated it would need to make a similar product itself but also some of the initial marketing and traction costs, given that Respondlys existingcustomer base would reduce thelaunch risk as Buffer wouldnt need to start the business from scratch.We said when can we get $100k MRR with the buy model and so we modeled that out and said okay now is December 15, if we go live with this in January it means six months from now  which we would do in the build model  now we already save six months and we get paying customers and we already have paying customers. We also factored in the risk factor  the risk factor goes down, because the likelihood is if you have some paying customers you will keep getting some paying customers is much higher than if you have nothing and you make a bet that you will get at least one paying customer. So the risk from zero to one is much higher than if you already have some.Respondly being a relatively mature/feature-rich product was a highly attractive factor for Buffer, addsWidrich. It would have taken us a long time to add those features. Theyve been working on this for two years, non stop And to us that was really special because we feel like we could put all the marketing behind it and yes we will keep improving the product of course, but theyd built such an amazing foundation that its almost like a ramp that we could just jump off, he adds.And so in this model we assumed that we launch in January and we can get to $100k MRR by the end of 2016. That was our intuition And we would probably stop losing money half way through 2016  and we would only burn, I think we figured out roughly, $300k to $400k So now were in a position where we feel like wow, this is actually an amazing place to be in where not only could we save a lot of money  and we wanted to go after this opportunity anyway  but at the same time we are also able to take away a lot of the risk. So there was this compounding effect of that Therefore the buy option was a lot more attractive forus because of the less investment required from our side plus the lower risk.Of course all that thinking is dependent on the value of the acquisition  which again we dont know. But clearly the size of Buffers offer for Respondly undercutits internal calculations on how much it would have cost it to build a similarproduct itself. (And the associated risks of launching something new  including competing with Respondly (there were other offers on the table for the startup, although Buffers offer was apparently the highest.))So givenWidrichs explanation we can assume the price tag for acquisition was relatively close to the projected cost estimate for building the product itself  aka between $1.5M to$2M. Its also safe to assume itcertainlydidnt exceed Buffers own valuation  the latter raised a $3.5 million Series A round itself, back in October 2014, at a $60 million valuation (when it was also profitable and reporting monthly revenue of $400,000  although Widrich now says it basically breaks even every month as it reinvests in the product).Bufferslatest MRRis $663k. It had raised $400,000 prior to the Series A. And had just over $2.5M in cash in the bankas of last month (yes it publishes its bank balance too). Widrich confirms the acquisition was an all-cash deal. So again, we can pretty safely assumethe Respondly acquisition price-tag was closer to$2M than $60M given how much cash it has to hand to fund an acquisition. (For its part Respondly had raised $1.78M, according to CrunchBase.)[The price of the deal is] obviously the key piece to all of this, he adds. Its something that has to fit  we cant sort of run ourselves into the ground with an amount that would kill us. For us it became something that an amount that we felt was reasonable and that they were comfortable with.One of the things that were always keen to do  because were so transparent  is to lay out our way of thinking about this and say look we dont want to screw anyone over here, we dont want to try and squeeze out every last dollar from you.The way we approached the interaction with Tim was to be as open and as keen to lay out our way of thinking with him. This is what we feel we can pay, and we show him our bank balance. We do some crazy things that people probably advise people never to do in an acquisition. But we feel like thats the best way for us andalso to have him build trust in us  that were not trying to play games here, but were just approaching this in a very rational way. And that helped us to get him on side as well.None of the Respondly team will be joining Buffer, so this is a pure-play productacquisition not an acqui-hire.Widrich says its assigning nine people to work on the Respond product as it takes it over from Respondly.Its ramped up seriously on the staff front this year, growing from around 25 employees at the start of the year to almost 70 now.So how did Buffer assess the risk of integrating an existing product into its existing business  and doing so without any of Respondly staff on board to smooth the transition?Calculating that unknowninevitably involved a lot moreconjecture.Weve taken a growth rate and weve taken certain numbers we think this new product can grow into and we have then applied a risk factor  sort of like decreased the growth rate based off a certain risk factor we think is existing, says Widrich. To give you one example, one risk is say for example Twitter. Twitters API and their approach to developers. What if we buy Respondly and then next day we get cut off from their API so we cant even provide the product anymore?Thats something we should factor in. And some of those big ticket items are really hard to calculate but the best way weve found to do this is to apply a percentage and say hey actually lets decrease all of this by 25 per cent to account for unforeseen things that may happen that throw us off and mean that we need more time. Thats the best way weve been able to do this.And if there are very specific risk factors that we can already identify  obviously we cant look into the future  for example that were dependent on a platform like Twitter or that.. say something else changes in the market. We can think of Facebook working on their messenger tool, turning that into customer service  and that can be a good thing or that can hurt us. So were trying to list some of those things that apply and say lets be more conservative about our forecast. So that we have some slack in terms of the numbers that we want to hit or we can get to.Respondly will be rebranded as Respond by Buffer, and relaunched in January with a new per seat pricing model for new customers vs Respondlys current tiered pricing.Widrich says existing Respondly customers will likely be grandfathered on their existing pricing  at least for a while  while new customers will be pushed to the new pricing (either $35 per seat or $70 per seat for the pro version). There will also be a freemium option for low volume users.Hes not definitive on whether existing customers should expect to be locked into Respondlys pricing forever  but he does at least say as much.The most common thing to do in SaaS is to grandfather them. To have them pay the existing prices for as long as theyre with us. Since its such a drastic change we might, after four or five months, approach them individually  get on a call and say hey were thinking of rolling you over to this pricing, we think this is more fair, this scales better for you in the long term as you also add more users, heres how its going to look, heres how its going to work, how do you feel about that? Thats the conversation we want to have, and thats the approach we want to have.Below isthe internal memo that Buffer sent to its staff announcing the acquisition.