It was already on public record that Andrey Andreev, the low-profile Russian founder of European dating behemoth Badoo, is an investor in female-led dating app Bumble, the Tinder competitor founded by ex-Tinder founding team memberWhitney Wolfe. However, TechCrunch can now reveal a number of previously unreported details of Wolfe and Andreevs partnership, including that Andreev invested via Badoo Trading Ltd, the U.K.-registered operator of Badoo, and that the multi-billion dollar company is in actual fact the majority owner of Bumble.After Wolfe controversially left Tinder, including filing a lawsuit against the company for sexual harassment and workplace discrimination, she begun thinking about a new startup idea, a social network for young girls, focused on positivity. Thats when Badoos Andreev got in touch.The two met up in around August of 2014 and, after realising they both had a similar vision for where online dating could go next, a partnership was formed. Wolfe then went about assembling a team, including persuading two other ex-Tinder employees, Sarah Mick (previously VP of design at Tinder) and Chris Gulczynski (co-founder/CCO at Tinder), to come on board, initially as consultants. The new venture, Bumble, would launch on December 1st 2014.A recent company filing for Bumble Holding Limited  the U.K.-registered entity behind Bumble  shows the exact equity breakdown of the company. Most strikingly, Badoo has a whopping 79 per cent stake in Bumble, making it by far the majority owner. And, as youd then expect, in second place is Bumble founder Wolfe with an ownership stake of 20 per cent. Fellow ex-Tinder employees, Mick and Gulczynski, make up the remaining 1 per cent.Badoo and Bumble are separate companies. Andrey Andreev, via Badoo, invested in Bumble as a startup, Bumble told me in a statement after I pressed for further details regarding the relationship between the two entities. As is well publicized and documented, Andrey Andreev and Whitney Wolfe decided to partner on a new company in 2014. Badoo invested in this new project  the new project became Bumble.The company also stressed that the investment is strategic from both sides, enabling Bumble to not simply fundraise, but to strategically tap into the wealth of experience held by Badoo as a global market leader.It also allows for Bumble to scale, without needing to seek outside capital, adds Bumble. That is an important part of what makes this a highly unique and opportune deal. For a company like Bumble with such incredible growth, this strategic move has been invaluable when it has come to easily and seamlessly solving common startup issues such as scale and infrastructure.And while the benefits of having a strategic investor with the deep pockets of Badoo shouldnt be underestimated  the dating app space is incredibly competitive right now and isnt easy for new entrants to break into  its worth re-iterating that Wolfe is in every sense the founder and CEO of Bumble. Im told that the startup operates as an autonomous, independent company, and always will do, with its staff, head office, and HQ in Austin, Texas.Its also my understanding that the thinking behind Badoos large stake in Bumble, and in turn, Wolfes smaller stake, is that it will enable the startup to grow indefinitely without the need for numerous further funding rounds, which would see Wolfes stake diluted significantly anyway. As the statement above says, Badoos investment should allow Bumble to scale, without needing to seek outside capital.None of which should take away from Wolfe and her team at Bumbles success to date. The app boasts 3.5 million users since launching just shy of 15 months ago. Its also been steadfast in its female-led approach, an underserved portion of the market. In Bumble, women are required to make the first move, and Im told have done so over 36 million times via the app  a number that suggests Wolfes vision for a new type of dating app is actually working.