Senators Richard Burr and Dianne Feinstein released theofficial versionof their anti-encryption bill today after a draft appearedonline last week. The bill, titled the Compliance with Court Orders Act of 2016, would require tech firms to decrypt customers data at a courts request.The Burr-Feinstein proposal has already faced heavy criticism from the tech and legislative communities and is not expected to get anywhere in the Senate.President Obama has also indicated that he will not support the bill, Reuters reports.I have long believed that data is too insecure, and feel strongly that consumers have a right to seek solutions that protect their information  which involves strong encryption, Sen. Burr said in astatement announcing the bill.But in spite of his stated support of strong encryption, Burrs bill calls for the exact opposite. It requires legislation that requirescommunications services to backdoor their encryptionin order to provide intelligible information or data, or appropriate technical assistance to obtain such information or data.Sen. Feinstein weighed in too, stating, The bill we have drafted would simply provide that, if a court of law issues an order to render technical assistance or provide decrypted data, the company or individual would be required to do so. Today, terrorists and criminals are increasingly using encryption to foil law enforcement efforts, even in the face of a court order. We need strong encryption to protect personal data, but we also need to know when terrorists are plotting to kill Americans.Predictably, the bill has been panned by tech trade organizations and advocacy groups. But Burrs fellow senators are coming out against it, too  Sen. Ron Wyden tweeted that he would do everything in [his] power to block the bill, including filibustering it.I will do everything in my power to block Burr-Feinstein anti-encryption bill. It makes Americans less safe. pic.twitter.com/NyLK3KSPrs Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) April 13, 2016If this dangerous anti-encryption legislation reaches the Senate floor, I will filibuster it. Period. Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) April 13, 2016A similar anti-encryption bill died in Californias General Assembly yesterday. TheAssembly Committee on Privacy and Consumer Protection determined that the proposed legislation, which would have mandated $2,500-per-day penalties for companies that refused to decrypt data, would place too much burden on the states technology companiesand declined to vote on it.