Edward Snowden says we should support Apples newly emphasizedcommitment to privacy rather than a business model driven by personal data collection, whether or not Tim Cook is being genuine. Snowden spoke over video conference during the Challenge.rs conference in Barcelona today.I asked Snowden his thoughts on Cooks recent acceptance speech for an Electronic Privacy Information Center award, saying:CEO Tim Cook recently took a stand on privacy and Apples business, saying some of the most prominent and successful companies have built their businesses by lulling their customers into complacency about their personal information. Theyre gobbling up everything they can learn about you and trying to monetize it. We think thats wrong. And its not the kind of company that Apple wants to be.Do you think Cooks perspective genuine and honest, and how do you think it will play out long-term with regards to it hurting or helping Apples business, or whether Apple will keep this promise to privacy?Snowden responded:I think in the current situation, it doesnt matter if hes being honest or dishonest. What really matters is that hes obviously got a commercial incentive to differentiate himself from competitors like Google. But if he does that, if he directs Apples business model to be different, to say were not in the business of collecting and selling information. Were in the business of creating and selling devices that are superior, then thats a good thing for privacy. Thats a good thing for customers.And we should support vendors who are willing to innovate. Who are willing to take positions like that, and go You know, just because its popular to collect everybodys information and resell it..to advertisers and whatever, its going to serve our reputation, its going to serve our relationship with our customers, and its going to serve society better. If instead we just align ourselves with our customers and what they really want, if we can outcompete people on the value of our products without needing to subsidize that by information that weve basically stolen from our customers, thats absolutely something that should be supported. And regardless of whether its honest or dishonest, for the moment, now, thats something we should support, thats something we should incentivize, and its actually something we should emulate.And if that position comes to be reversed in the future, I think that should be a much bigger hammer that comes against Apple because then thats a betrayal of trust, thats a betrayal of a promise to its customers. But I would like to think that based on the leadership that Tim Cook has shown on this position so far, hes spoken very passionately about private issues, that were going to see that continue and hell keep those promises.Edward Snowden on stage via video conference at Challenge.rs conference in BarcelonaIts reasonable to wonder how much of Cooks chest-beating on privacy is philosophy and how much is marketing.Since the iCloud celebrity photo hack last year, weve written about how Apple needs to be more transparent about security and privacy. Snowden seems to agree it could benefit the company as well as society.Applessteps in that direction through press releases and public appearances by Cook have been positively received.They resonate especially well with the public in contrast to other tech giants like Google and Facebook that are aggressively collecting private personal data, and the widespread security breaches of big brands.Image Credit: Jennifer MorrisYet while people frequently say privacy is important to them, their unwillingness to stray from products that rely on mining their data seems to suggest otherwise. Were just at the start of the age of personalized computing, and those that embrace it may get an advantage in the market.Apple is experimenting with ways to personalize with privacy in mind. Its new Proactive update to Siri scans your email to remind you about events, but only does this on your device rather than copying your data to its servers for processing. To keep up while remaining true to its ideals, Apple will need more creative solutions like this to deliver convenience without being creepy.