Which emojis do New Yorkers use more than other U.S. states? How diverse is Californias emoji usage? Do Alaskans dream of emoji fish?Predictive keyboard maker SwiftKey, whose software now runs on some 250 million devicesworldwide, has crunched the data on its U.S. users emoji usageto answer just such burning queries, looking at the usage of more than a billion emoji via its SwiftKey Cloud back-up and syncing service.So if you were ever curious about the pictorial preoccupations of your fellow Americans  and the horse latitudes of August area great time to ponder such zeitgesity questions of the digitalmilieuwonder no more.What does SwiftKeys emojinalysis tell us? Unsurprisingly, California rates highly for the taxi emoji. Thanks Travis. Meanwhile the wine emoji is most popular in Washington  presumably because of the all those visiting European diplomats Andthe sad emoji gets used most in New Jersey. Awww.And while New Yorkers tap onparty- and female-related emoji more than average, Californians are sendingLGBT and people emoji categories more often than other states.Meanwhile,thestate that both usesviolence- and drugs-related emoji more than average, and insects and flowers less than average is wait for it Ohio.Other tidbits: Vermont really digs emoji poop. And Nevada is preoccupied with eggplant.In addition to creating aninteractive map depicting itsUnited States of Emoji, SwiftKey is updating its iOS predictive keyboard app with some emoji extras  showing U.S. users their emoji state; aka the US state their emoji use most resembles.Plustwo additions for all iOS users: a top emoji feature, which displays which emoji the personuses most often; and what theyre calling a signature emoji (currently in beta): aka the emoji that user uses more than other people.Doing more with emoji is not only zeitgeisty, it should help SwiftKey fend off competition from emoji-centric keyboardrivals  which have proliferated since Apple opened up the system keyboard to third parties, back in iOS 8.