To paraphrase an oft seen Internet trollism, Internet comments are the worst thing since Hitler.By which I mean: they suck. They suck bad. No, they really suck.The problem wehave right now with Internet comments is clear: negativity and nastiness is burying or discouraging everything else.When, as an online writer, youre relieved to find the commentsclocked up byyour post are onlyspammers touting ways to earn $$$ when you work from home and/or posting a link to a video about BOOSTINGyour sales leads by 250% in just 2 weeks!  rather than, say,random vitriol, abject stupidity or violentoutpourings  you know something is wrong, very, very wrong with the standardreader feedback structure of the Internet.For pitys sake tech world, there has to be a better way!And I dont mean turning off comments entirely  although more websites are doingthat, including some media companies (apparently) lacking the resources and/or willpower to effectively policethe effluentthat inexorably flows from the bottom half of the Internet.But switching comments off entirely is tosurrender to the trolls bile-colored flag.And while it might be more pleasing to hear silence than even the most half-heartedtroll dirge, it also meansyoure silencing genuinelyengaged readers  who probablyhad something interesting to say, if only they felt it worth their while to say it. So youregiving up the chanceto grow a community of your own.Andsure, any media company can offload commentsto social networks  outsourcing commentingto Facebook andTwitter, where your content is most probablybeing recirculated anyway. But with more of web users attention being gated onto socialtech platforms and especially as these dominantplatformsformulate ever more controlling media/content distribution strategies thats arguably veryshort-term thinking.On the shiftingsands of online publishing there should reallybe fresh impetusfor media firms facing commoditization on the social web, and attacks on their ad-powered business models, to retain and sustain a strong brand identity of their own. And doing that absolutely requires havingan engaged community. And how do you get more people engagedwith your stuff? You let their voices be heard as a part of the propositionyou offer.And so into this embattled comment arena, stepsCivil:a startup co-founded by former online comment moderator, Aja Bogdanoff, who got tired of trying to firefight the endless stream of comments spewing out of an unregulatedpipe. Her answer?A comment plug-inthat requires users to engage witha framework of civility and quality as the specific entry criteriafor being able to air their views.Sheargues that the current model of digital services using human moderators to assess comment content for acceptability  typically after the fact  isnot a very efficient way to do it. And the result? Well, the result is clear Welcome to Trolltown: Population, the idiotwho shouts loudest.So how do you determine civility and quality? You ask readers to be the judge of that.Ergoyoucrowdsource comment moderation. In Civils case this means reviewthree other comments, get to post your one.The system also asks comment posters to review the quality and civility of their own comment before it gets submitted for review by others (and potential posting)  so effectively reminds them to sanity check their own opinions.Do these extra steps result in fewer overall comments being posted? The team claims its only seeing a marginal impact on that front so far  claiminga six per cent abandonment rate during testing.Usersalso accrue a civility rating, based on their behavior withinthe commenting platform, which isused to control their commentingpermissions in certain flash-point scenarios (see below for Civils Sieve mode feature, for instance).Its really a very simple idea, technically speaking  so simple you have to wonder why ithasnt been done before. But that question just leads to a much more interesting thought: that bad Internet comments are actuallythe byproduct of neglect. Adirectconsequence of thoughtless design and zero/minimal investment.Much like weedsgrowing on an untended plot  if you dont create the conditions where good stuff can grow, really what else would you expect?We get that question a lot, says Bogdanoff, when I ask the obvious question i.e. why this hasnt been done before. A lot of the tech companies right now dont really consider the content their responsibility. They providethe tools to let site owners post comments but then what people actually publish they say well thats up to you to moderate. Then its the site owners responsibility to for them to put expensive moderation teams on it. And obviously they cant keep up.I think theres a lot that tech can do to shape how people interact with each other online, she adds. I have a lot of theories about why other companies havent done it  but I dont know for sure.In Civils case, there is also some algorithmic special sauce going on in the background  to determine which readers are asked to rate which comments. So its not quite as simple as it appears on the surface. We select the comments; so its not a popularity contest, is howBogdanoff explains it.She wont be drawn on how exactly these algorithms work  given that any comment platform needs to guard against the risk of trolls trying to game its mechanisms en masse (e.g. like theco-ordinated comment attacks in and around#Gamergate). But she will say itinvolveslooking at the behavior of the person.Weve put a lot of thought into making it so that its not a popularity contest. So that its not something thats easy to bring a bunch of buddies in and change the vote, she adds. Over time we see the pattern of a persons behavior and the system is able to determine whos acting in a trustworthy manner.In a nutshell, Civils thesis is that consequences and social structures in real world public spaces help keep (most) people doing and sayingcivil things in public most of the time. But online? Well, thats a whole other lawless story.Online we dont have those social structures. We dont have those systems in place that constantly remind people that indulging in their baser instincts will leads to negative consequences So its not so much why are people doing these things  its whats missing that keeps people from doing these things?, argues Bogdanoff.Instead of saying gosh why are people so horrible online? its been more helpful for us to look at it from the perspective of why arent people this horrible this often in face to face situations?'Why ask readersto judgecomments onboth civility and quality? Thats to try to encourage peopleto setasidemore emotivepersonal responses that might mean they like or dislike a particular comment  and rather push themto makea more impartial assessment,based on whether acomment is honestly composed vsintended to troll, or is acceptable vsabusive.What we really need to do is we need to get in there and we need to change how people are submitting their content, submitting their comments. And we need to make sure that were giving them good reasons to behave well. And we also need to make sure that were equipped to know what the content of a comment is, sheadds.Civil Comments requires users register to comment but does not enforce a real names policy  unlike, for example, Facebook Comments. The team argues that allowing users to comment using pseudonyms is an important protection for people participating in a public debate.Real name policies often do more harm to the folks who are acting in good faith than they do in preventing bad behavior/bad actors, saysCivils other co-founder and designer, Christa Mrgan. A real name can really be used against you. I think its a terrible thing to require people to put themselves out there in that way just in order to participate.. I think thats a very high price to ask.So at the business end of thiscrowdsourced comment moderationpipe, what does the site user see? All comments but with quality/civility floating on top? Or only the comments with a minimum bar of quality/civility?Thats something its still tweaking. Right now, the default is three ratings per comment, with a 2/3 approval system, but were actually experimenting with different variations on that, for lower-volume sites. We can also make this configurable according to what the publisher wants, saysMrgan.The team, which started working on the business in January this year, has raised some $340,000in angel investment thus far. Their first product (Civil Comments) is still in publictesting, on mock sites theyve created themselves. Theyre not yet installed on any third partysites  hopefully soon were in talks,they say on the customerfront.The initial business model is SaaS  theyre selling b2b, but plan to open up a freemium product for individual bloggers to use in future. And they have a pipeline of other ideas for other products that extend beyond Civil Comments, albeit theyre not discussing these plans publicly at this stage.When you start looking at designing platforms this way wevea lot of other things that wed like to be able to tackle once this isestablished, saysMrgan.Is there perhaps also a licensing business here? It strikes me there areideas here thatcould be appliedto socialplatforms, such as Twitter, which has had a sustainedproblem with co-ordinated abuse attacks(albeit its doing more behind the scenesto try to prevent the spread ofabusive tweets).Maybe, is all theyll say, with a laugh, when I suggest this.Theyre upbeat about their timing, despite moves by websites to turn offcomments and a general sense of fatigue amongweb users about the entirecommenting process owing tothe effort vs harassment ratio.I think a lot of these sites understand, on some level, that these are their most engaged users  this is one of their most valuable assets are their communities, right, the communities formed around their content, saysBogdanoff.With the platforms that currently exist for a lot of these companies the numbers just dont work out  because it costs so much money to moderate comments at high volume. With something like Civil Comments that really helps reset that balance and puts more control into the hands of their best community members, I think were going to see more sites willing to jump back into this. Because it really does benefit them.Its like having a mini social network right there on your site, adds Mrgan.I posit that its perhaps no accident that a startup witha mission to fix online commenting is led by two female founders given how much hatred women frequently have to endure inonline comments.The pair are diplomatic on this point.Its definitely a problem. Its a problem for everybody really. We all deserve to have a decent culture online, is what they say.How confident are they that what they are building can survive a co-ordinated abusive comment onslaught such as the one triggered by Gamergate?I dont know if we want to go on record that were confident we cant be gamed I think that we have something that goes a long way towards addressing co-ordinated attacks. I dont think anything is ever going to be perfect  again we use the real world as our benchmark, and in the real world nothing is 100 per cent safe from co-ordinated attack, right? But we have built in systems that we think are going to make a difference, saysBogdanoff.One of these systems is afeature called siege mode where an individual article can be putintoa partial comment lock down. Its still able to accept comments  you can still go and comment on this article if you have a civility rating that is high enough, if your trust level is high enough, explainsMrgan.If you dont have that civility rating  if youre a brand new commenter. And it will fall into this mode automatically, based on suspicious activity. Or the publisher themselves can put an article into siege mode. And so if you go there as a new commenter, or your civility rating just isnt high enough youll get a little message saying: Im sorry this article is receiving a high amount of suspicious activity. The comment section is restricted to people with a civility rating of 80 per cent or higher. But you can improve your civility rating by going and leaving civil comments elsewhere on the site.It takes work and effort to raise your civility rating, she adds.Acomment platform designed to maketrolls sweat? Now youre talking