Canonical has finally got skin in the mobile game, putting its first Ubuntu phone on sale in Europe last month.Its been showing off that mid-tier device, made by BQ, at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona this week, along with a more premium smartphone made by Meizu, whichwill be released later this year  targeting the Chinese market.Check out the photo gallery below for close ups of the Ubuntu mobile OS interface, as seen on the mid-tier BQ. And, further down the post, for photos ofthe higher endMeizu handset.Canonicals gesture-based UI is built around shuffling a series of content slices built atop HTML5, called Scopes, which foreground customizable cross-sections of data  saving users from having to dive into different apps to get certain types of info themselves.The first view you see after you unlock the phone (with a side swipe) is a Scope card showing the date, todays weather and any upcoming events in your calendar.Swiping across brings in additional themed Scopes, such as one called Nearby which serves up location specific content such asnearby restaurants, pulled from Time Out(one of the handful of third party app makerssupporting the platform at launch).Here userscan also specify the sort of content they are in the mood for by selecting from a list of potted descriptions  e.g. Im bored, or Im stressed.Select Im stressed and the phone serves up nearby shopping locations, spas, and games and music that might help relax you. Its a bit trite but you can see what Canonical is trying to do  i.e.generateutility with limited source material at its disposal.The key point here is the nascent Ubuntu mobile platform doesnt have that many apps  the company tells TechCrunch theres about 1,000 so far  so it makes sense to build a UI that doesnt flag up that lack. Rather the platform works to repurpose and stitch together the content the platformdoes have and can scrape in order to create the perceptionof a more fully featured offering. So there are also music and newsfocused Scopes, to dice up and serve related tidbits ofdigitalcontent.Canonical says its own developer community is also getting involved with porting apps over. For instance Evernote is on board, thanks to a community effort. Essentially developers gave up their time for free to build the app on Evernotes behalf. Canonical says itasked its community forfive people to work on the app and 100 people volunteered to answer thecall.Canonicals technical architectOndrej Kubik says its hoping to repeat this trick with Dropbox. But obviously this is never going to be about catching up with Android and iOS sheer quantity of apps:of circa one million+. Sothe Ubuntu DIY community effort will beabout plugging the most noticeable mobile app gaps.While Canonicaldoes not have the resources of Microsoft to pay developers to port apps (as Redmondhas with Windows Phone), it does have the good will of its open source supporters and peopleare willing to donate time and effort to helping itsplatform grow, however small scale that growth is.Returning to the Ubuntu interface, there are plentiful options available to users to customize what they see appearing in Scopes. News, messaging, and app and social sources can be configured to appear or not bychecking or unchecking individual items from a long list. This sort ofgranular customization lets users personalizecontent within the Scopes framework, albeit constrainedby the limited app support for the OS at this point (some content, such as news, is also being pulled in from the web).As well as having what is necessarily a different focal point to the app centric approach of Android and iOS, the Ubuntu platform incorporates a lot of gestures. The launcher sidebar, which offers quick access to your apps viaa narrowiconstack, ispulled inwith a short flick. Elsewhere a horizontal swipe can take you back to a prior content page, or cycle through Scopes. A swipe up from the bottom edge when youre using an app brings up contextual options in toolbar form.Its not just single swipes either. The interface can involve more involved gestures such as holding down and rocking back and forth tochoose and select from options that arerevealed as you move. These more complex gestures are aimed at saving UI navigation time  so, for instance, you dont have to keep going back to other screens or tapping and drilling down through various menus to toggle settings or access apps. But theres clearly scopefor confusion vs the clarity of the more established directional navigation of Android and iOS.It may be tedious to have to tap through multiple sub-menus or keep going back to the homescreen to locate something, as on Android and iOS, but such a structure istrivially mind-mapped. Not soUbuntusinterface. Kubikconcedes there is a challenging learning curve here.As it stands, Ubuntu mobilesgesture story comes across as confusing, and when the core aim of having a buttonless interface is apparently to save people time, that seems contradictory. A more realisticnarrative is this is a device aimed atUbuntus core user-basewho wont be put off by a little layered complexity. And who want to extend their support for Ubuntu open sourcefrom desktop to mobile.The devices on show at MWC are not in fact entirely buttonless. They doboth have home buttons (touch-keys)  to tap to shortcutback to the homescreen  although neither of those keys wasworking on the devices we saw (owing to a technical issue, according to Kubik).The placement of the home keys potentially conflicts with the up-swipe gesture that the interface also uses,but Kubik notesthe sensorsin the touch-keysaresensitive enough to distinguish between button tap and up-swipe. Whether users will be so easily able to discern all the nuanced navigation of Canonicals mobile platform remains to be seen.Its taken Ubuntu a long time to get a mobile effort into the market. And the result is undoubtedlydifferent. However its not clear whether the Scopes approach is especially appealing, given how app-centric mainstream mobile usage remains. Slowing smartphone growth in mature markets is arguably a symptom of high levels of satisfaction with existing devices and platforms, rather than the opposite. If you want to point togenuine dissatisfaction in the smartphone space right nowyoud talk aboutbattery life, notinterface fatigue.An apparentappetite for interface difference in the mobile space has also been invoked by others before Canonical, from Microsoft to Palm to Blackberry, to justify their own mobile UI spin. None of whom have thrived by treading an alternative path. Add to that, Ubuntusgesture-heavy interface can feel more constraining than liberating given it involves anaxis ofgestures eachtiedto specific functionality. So its actually a whole new set of buttons usersneed to learn, except these keys are also invisible. The resultcan feelunwelcoming, and even willfully difficult.The ongoing momentum poweringAndroid and iOS would suggest the vast majority of mobile users are not in fact bored with app-centric interfaces or withclearly signposted back buttons. So Canonical iterating its UIto simplify and condense navigation in much the same way that Jolla has with the 2.0 upgrade to its Sailfish platform could be one way for ittowiden Ubuntu mobiles appeal.Another potential route for growth could besupport from regions like China keen to dilute the dominanceof U.S.-made or controlled mobile platforms  exacerbated by concerns about government intelligence agencies surveillance intrusions into U.S.-basedcommercial software platforms. Last month, for instance,the Russian government revealedplans to pay local app makers to migrate apps to open source alternatives to Android, such as Jollas Sailfish and the Samsung-led Tizen project. Ubuntus open source, European headquarted mobile efforts could be another contender there.