
Promise Phelon is CEO of TapInfluence.Ive watched from the sidelines for years as the debate has played out about race andgenderinSilicon Valley,and tech at large. Recently, I readan articleshaming Facebook, Google and others about their diversity numbers, and felt compelled to weigh in; if it were early in my career and I saw those numbers, it would make me run the other way. And fast.My goal here is very simple  to offer another perspective  one that might encourage a different cohort to fearlessly embrace Silicon Valley (and tech, for that matter) for the incredible opportunity it is, AND to point out that it might actually be an ideal place for them to crush it.Im a black female, non-technical, venture-backed CEO and serial entrepreneur. Ive been playing in the 408,415and650universe for nearly 15 years: Ive been part of companies where people of color represented less than 2 percent of the population, raised venture and private capital from people who didnt look like me and, like most tech entrepreneurs, Ive failed and succeeded on this journey.I didnt go to Stanford, and theres no trust fund in my name. And my mother, who went on to have a great career, was a single parent who got her undergraduate and masters degrees the same years as me. She raised me and my two brothers in the face of adversity. Im certainly not a poster child of privilege.But this story isnt about me. Its about anyone who doesnt fit the 25-year-old white-boy Ivy League dropout archetype. I have news for you. Not only can you weave your way through the tech industry, but you are better equipped to win.Silicon Valley is the holy land of the entrepreneur  where you get to build something from nothing, create millions, or billions in value and manifest your dreams of changing the world.If youve read Ben Horowitzs amazing article The Struggle or his book The Hard Thing About Hard Things, you know that regardless of the shiny profiles in Inc. Magazine, being an entrepreneur is a constant exercise in survival and sustaining enthusiasm through great tumult and massive, continuous challenges.If you are willing to stick out the 10,000 hours it takes to be accepted into the circle of trust of investors, senior team members and the influencers of Silicon Valley, you can change your life and change the world. Your desire to build and create value for customers, employees, shareholders and for yourself has to be what wakes you up in the morning and, quite frankly, keeps you up at night.The ability to thrive despite innumerable and seemingly insurmountable obstacles is the reason most entrepreneurs I know stay in the game. Its not a place for the faint of heart.Your set of experiences can be viewed as disadvantages or entrepreneurial decelerators  things that slow you down or make you less attractive to investors. I submit that decelerators in this game can easily be turned into accelerators. Which one is true for you is your choice, not Silicon Valleys.The most important characteristics you need as an entrepreneur  regardless of race or class are resilience, grit and the ability to persevere under intense pressure and in uncomfortable situations.You need to be your own force. Whether that shows up as being high energy through (constant) fundraising, surviving competitive threats or bad hiring decisions, dealing with the ever-present threat of failure, running out of money, pivoting your business model or the exhaustion that comes with the job, know that all serious entrepreneurs have been there.The more grit, the easier it is to power through because, as crazy as it may sound, there will be people watching and waiting for you to fail and you cant let them rattle you.A close friend recentlyshared that the summer after third grade he read just about every library book in his town, and spent a month at away camp. He asked me what I did that summer. All I could recall was that my mother and stepfather had just broken up. The day that school got out, my mother said, grab a box, were moving. That summer was stressful, and yet it was not the last time.You need to find your source of power, and trust that you can get yourself through pretty much anything. Those experiences were painful, but they prepared me for when, as a solo founder of a tech company, I had to pitch to more than 400 investors to raise the money my company needed to thrive. Of those meetings, 99 percent ended in rejection it wasnt easy.Or when I was running a company Id started and we were happily growing at 300 percent per year when our largest customer changed their payment terms from net 90 to net 200 and, simultaneously, we lost our second-largest customer.Those two events nearly bankrupted the company. This shit happens to every entrepreneur, and the longer it takes to emotionally recover from those events, the shorter the window of opportunity. If you let it, grit is a gift that circumstances and life give you. Pay attention and cash in on it.Were all reading the studies that state that Silicon Valley isnt a good place for people of color, women or anyone who doesnt fit the prevailing archetype. And its true  there is bias. There are people who will never, ever invest in you because of your race or gender; they may not give you the time of day or will waste your time as they try to get over their biases.But, if you want the experience, the struggle, the pain, the rewards of building companies, creating world-changing and disruptive technology and doing it in Silicon Valley know that it is possible  and believe that its a great place where you can put to work gifts you didnt realize you had.Coming from a privileged background with access to money or fitting a certain mold are not the accelerators that will sustain a real advantage for an entire career.Its grit, determination, passion and the ability to power through  shaped by your individual experiences  that truly matter when youre playing the long game.