Earlier this week, as Re/Codes Jason Del Rey was trying to procure a chickenparmesan via text, we were trying to procure a tiger via text. You want a tiger delivered? Just text the details and Magics got you covered, read the lede of the VentureBeat articleabout nascent on-demand startup Magic.As Ive killed many hours watching tiger cubs frolic in the pool or bounce around on the couch on YouTube, Ive entertained, even Googled, tiger ownership.You cannot just text for one. Especially in Californiawhere they are banned.So, knowing the law and calling Magics bluff, our very own Ryan Lawler texted Magic for a tiger to see what Magic would do. He was met with a 15K-long wait list. We expensed the $50 to jump the long line and asked Magic if itcould send a tiger to our office.We were told we could rent a tiger for a photo shoot and that a Magic source claims to rent out a tiger for $13,400. Hmmm  does Bloomingdales make you do a photo shoot if you want to buy some clothes? Does the Magic effort to deliver you sushi involve renting the sushi? The latest update to our efforts on that thread is above. Were still sitting tight.Perhaps Tiger Balm was easier than an actual tiger? At 3:21 p.m. on Wednesday then, I asked Magic for some Tiger Balm, and at 5:10 p.m., an hour and 50 minutes later, it was delivered to my home in Palo Alto. It would have taken me all of 20 minutes to walk to CVS to buy the balm myself.I asked the guy who delivered my balm if he was from Postmates, and he said yes. He paid $10.30 for the balm per the receipt, and Magic charged me $10 only after I reminded my operator that I had not paid. I guess Magic just ate the $7 Postmates delivery fee.According to my Magic operator, between 9 and 13 percent of all Magic orders are delivered by Postmates (Magic founder and CEO Mike Chen tells me the company has not yet calculated that statistic). So Snapguide founderDaniel Raffel,who compared the delivery times of Postmates and Magic, is sort of defeating the purpose. For example, Raffels Magic lunch order was also delivered via Postmates, but Magic also uses other on-demand players likeGrubHub and Eat24.The model of taking a loss on orders doesnt scale. Chen, who studied philosophy and computer science at Oberlin College, estimates that the company breaks even on50 percent of orders, loses money on 25 percent and profits on25 percent  which he says is breaking even overall. Operators are supposed to factor in the time they spend interacting with customers and vendors into the Magic charge. Ill have better numbers for you in a week, he tells me.Chen also reveals the company has had dozens of requests for tigers since the services launch; that the tiger thing has become a fascination.When doing press, everyone for some reason asked, What is the craziest or weirdest request youve gotten?' Chen says. So we mentioned the guy who wanted a tiger. But a tiger is very very difficult to deliver. Theres noway to have him own a tiger, because its illegal. Does he want a photo, or to interact like a tiger trainer? I told everyone that we did not deliver the tiger, but no one wrote that.Magic did not deliver the tiger. And now they have a staff member committed to tiger requests, among other things.This frustrates Chen.I dont like the tiger thing, because it makes it look like its a novelty service. The worst thing is the name, Magic. I was like, Ill call it this right now. I dont even think the domain,getmagicnow.com,is good. Between the tiger and the name, people are talking about it like Is this even real?I regret saying anything about the tiger, Chen laments. Its making people who need to use [Magic] not show up, and other people sign up for it thinking something else.Chen says that since he sent the service to five or so friends last Thursday, the company has processed 25,000 to 30,000 messages, and thousands of people have signed up for its $50 VIP service to skip the now-30,000-long wait list. Hes considering raising the VIP price to $100.Magic, housed in Made in Spaces office at NASA, has gone from 5-30 people.VCs are knocking on his door.Wednesday was Chens 30th birthday, and he spent it at the office dealing with the services scaling problems. Magic was started on his personal backup server and in many cases, does not use the APIs of the services it mediates.Does he think Magic will be around in a year? I really believe so. But will there be this much hype around it? I dont think so.When I liken the company to SendYourEnemiesGlitter, he responds, People didnt need or want the glitter. Glitter is not something you actually need or want. We serve real needs that people have, from groceries to appointments.Despite working on two other startups, Chen plans on committing most of his time to Magic in order to build out what the project should have been in the first place.But will they ever deliver a tiger?Now that the tiger is a thing, maybe somebody will be in an area that allows a tiger, or want to [legitimately] be a tiger trainer? Maybe Im just fantasizing  But, nowere not going to send a tiger to someone to be a pet in California. Thats illegal, Chen admits.For what its worth, when we called L.A.-based Hollywood Animals they offered to rent a tiger to usfor a photo shoot for $8,000. If we were todo it for a party, as Googles infamous Orkut Bykkkten is rumored to have done, it would be the same price, but wewould need 40 hours of training if we wanted to play with said tiger.Thats $5,000 less than what Magic said a source said the tiger would be. Maybe thats exactly the type of order where Chen hopes to make a profit from  outlandish requests that people are too rich or too lazy, or both, to research on their own. (When pressed, Chen claims that$13,400 was the representative quoting a price given to the previous tiger requester.)When asked if Hollywood Animals had received a lot of strange calls from San Francisco lately, the woman on the phone said yes, but not necessarily for tigers.You are beating us out for weird, she said.