One day, things in the tech startup world are ticking along nicely.The next, investor Bill Gurley is calling private valuations fake, billion-dollar companies are losing their sheen, and venture capitalists are allegedly gettingcursed out for passing onstartups.For those us based in the Bay Area, its hard to know whatin the world isgoing on. You can probably imagine how confused many Europeans must be byour machinations.Its precisely why were very happy to announce that three top West Coast VCs  David Hornik, a longtime general partner at August Capital; Thomas Korte, the cofounder of Angelpad;and SoftTech VC venture partnerAndy McLoughlin  will be joining TechCrunch at ourupcoming Disrupt London conference.Is Theranos being treated fairly? Well discuss it. Should Americans be buying IPO shares on the day of their debut? Well cover that, too. How much longer will the tech IPO window be shut, and what options do some late-stage startup teamshave left? Those are also on our list of questions, all of which are designed to make better sense of todays market.Certainly, we couldnt ask for better company to talk about the current environment.David Hornik, a Harvard lecturer, the founder and executive producer of the exclusive conference The Lobby,and a former litigator,has backed dozens of companies since joining August Capital in 2000. Hornik knows bubbles.Thomas Korte, who spent eight years at Google before creating AngelPad with wife Carine Magescas, also has plenty of insights to share, having created one of the most highly effective accelerator programs in the U.S. (Graduates include Postmates, most recently valued at $500 million,and MoPub, acquired by Twitter in 2013 for a tidy sum.)Meanwhile, Andy McLoughlin, who joined SoftTech VC earlier this year but is widely known as thecofounder of the venture-backed, team-collaboration software company Huddle, can share his perspective as aninvestor in todays tumultuousmarket and asa founder. (Did we mention hell be collectingan award from Queen Elizabeth the same week?)Were exceedingly happy to welcome each to Disrupt London, held at the Copper Box Arena in Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park December 7th and 8th.We hope to see you there, too.