Back in October, we reported that Checkr  a San Francisco startup that runs employee background checks and vets potential hires by way of an API  was raising north of $30 million as it expanded its business beyond the 300,000 checks per month it already does for some 3,000 tech companies includingUber and Instacart. Today, Checkr is formally announcing that round: it has raised a Series B of $40 million with a valuation that TechCrunch understands is between$250 million and $300 million.As we reported before, theround is being led by the Y Combinator Continuity Fund, an investment vehicle that has raised $700 million, mainly to backYC startups as they continue to scale. Other investors participating includeInstitutional Venture Partners and Accel, as well as David Spector andElad Gil, two early investors in the company.Checkr has raised some $50 millionsince being founded in 2014.Daniel Yanisse, Checkrs French CEO and co-founder, tells us that Checkr  which is already profitable from existing operations  will be using the money to continue building out its products, forging new partnerships, and going after new markets outside of the tech world. That requires not just a bigger sales team, but also technology to make itschecking software more intelligent and integrate better with the legacy systems that many of these older companies use to manage their HR.Targeting enterprises and more traditional businesses take a lot of effort, he told TechCrunch in an interview. Its not always straightforward to break out of Silicon Valley.Checkr has already started on that route, with new clients coming from the world of call centers and large staffing companies, he said.Checkr, which today operates in the U.S. and Canada only, competes against more established screening companies like SterlingBackCheck, HireRight, and First Advantage, as well as smaller startups like Goodhire(or potentially Onfido in the UK, if the two ever enter each others markets).As with these, Checkrsfocus is on background checks that typically cover driving and criminal records and basic identity confirmation.There are a couple of keysto why Checkr is doing well and attracting funding.The first is the product itself. The rise of on-demand startups relying on large, quickly-scaling workforces, as well as other startups that are simply growing very fast, has led to a demand for services that can provide basic screening forpotential employees. (This was, in fact, a problem thatYanisse and co-founderJonathan Perichon saw first-hand working at a previous startup, same-day delivery service deliv.)Checkr essentially offers a quicker, cheaper and more simplified way to vet a potential worker, covering datalike social security number validation, address history, national and county criminal records and driving history.A business can run checks through Checkrs online form; or, by way of an API, it can integrate a Checkrcheck into its hiring systems and other onboarding software such as Workable and Zenefits.Right now, there is a lot oftechnology that goes into Checkrs checks, but even so Yanisse tells me that there is still a big dose of old-school human labor that goes into tracking down and supplying this information, so some of the funding will be used to work on making that process more efficient.The second reason Checkr is doing well is because, well, its making money  which is not always the case in Startup Land. Usage ispriced per person, per report in tiersof $25, $35 and a tailored pricebased on specific requirements that may include deeper checks on motor vehicles, international searches and drug screening.The fact that there is no freemium to this model means that Checkr essentially starts to get paid the moment its services are enlisted. The funding today is for growth, not operations: Yanisse tells me that Checkr is already profitable.Of course, nothing is perfect in the world of human resources.Fast-scaling startups like Uber and Zenefits  both Checkr customers have been in the spotlight for some of their own staffing challenges (layoffs, dodgy work culture, and claims of violent driversamong them).Today, Checkrs service does not really touch these areas, and its clear to admit that.Sometimeslooking at the past can help but its not always the case, Yanisse noted when I asked him about some of these problems. Sometimes peopleare first offenders. Its not a perfect solution; its a risk mitigation tool. Wetry to aim for the highest accuracy and compliance.This potentially poses an opportunity for how Checkr could improve its services, but also to consider exactly what we want to see in these kinds of checks, such as privacy protections. This is something that Yanisse is also very firm about. Our missionis to help improve safety and get jobs and equity on the marketplace, he said. The company, he added, is unlikely to start nabbing more data from, say, social media searches to enhance that. That can be dangerous. Wewant to make sure we are offering ethical searches that help consumers.Checkr was thefirst funding that was madeout of the continuity fund, but its not the first that got officially announced. That honor went to DoorDash, which yesterday announced a $127 million raise. Coincidentally, DoorDash was Checkrs first customer.Ali Rowghani, the ex-Twitter exec who now runs the Continuity Fund, said that Checkr was well-respected in the YC network, and its interest is not just because of Checkrs own potential but the role its playing in the wider ecosystem for many other YC companies.He also added that there are more investments to come. Were just getting started, he said.