Native apps may be the current vision for what mobile servicesand gamesshould be, but a number of companies are pioneering HTML5-based web apps as a more roundedalternative. One such outfit, China-based game firm Wozlla, has landed a $2 million investment from PE firmGreenwoods AssetManagementto openits development technology to third-party developers worldwide.Co-founded by former Opera engineerZi Bin Cheah and other gaming industry figuresin2013, Wozlla has developed an IDE (integrated development environment) that allows game and app developers to create powerful, HTML5-based apps in an easier way than ever before. Plenty such HTML5 services exist already, butCheah said thatWozllas IDE is the most sophisticatedto date and it is touting games that it developed itself to make that point.Wozlla used its IDE, which is not yet publicly available, to create three titles for Chinese users. The titles are available via QQ Zone  Tencents web-basedgaming service with over 650 million users  while there are also native app versionsthat sharethe same HTML5 codebase. Its latest game , theres no English version  is featured within QQ andCheah said it has been a hit with users.There are some skeptics to HTML5, but its hot right now in China, he told TechCrunch in a phone interview. Theres alot of excitement here and we feel that what we are creating proves HTML5 is as good as native. The benefits of web tech, performance (such as frame rates per second), and development speed are all equivalent to native, if not faster.Beyond performance, HTML5 apps are favorable because they are more easily discovered and shared  i.e. not locked inside an app store  and translate well to messaging apps, which are hugely popular in Asia. Chinas top chat app, WeChat, has over 500 million active users across the world, mostly in China.The key problem is one of reputation,Cheah argued, since HTML games have traditionally been very basic, they are often merely scaled down versions of fuller native apps.Wozllas own games are designed to show off what is possible, and stoke interest in the IDE in advance of its release. China, where Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu are pushing HTML aggressively and users are comfortable with web apps, is an ideal place for the startup to begin, but it is targeting international gamers and developers.Wevebuilt very sophisticatedMMO games using HTML5. The industryhasnt seen anything this heavy or full-scale on mobile to date  it can even run on low-end phones like [Xiaomis $150] Redmi  the performance is really up there, Malaysian Cheah, who is Chinas World Wide Web Consortium chair,added.Wozlla is planning to make its IDE totally free to developers, and instead make money from its games.The company, which is anchored in Beijing with a development office in Mexico City, is planning to raise additional funding again soon, according to Cheah. That raise would go towards helping develop its technology, games and raising its headcount beyond the 30 staff it currently employees.