News flash from the world of the always-raising, ride-on-demandcompanies in China  one of them is raising. Again.Didi Kuaidi, the company that has leftUber eatingits dustin China, is currently in the midst of securing $1 billion in additional fundraising, according to the Wall Street Journal andBloomberg. Weve corroborated those reports with a source close to the deal, who told TechCrunch  like both publications that round is not yet closed, is apparently over-subscribed, and will value the company at over $20 billion.Didi Kuaidi is no stranger to investor cash. Last year, it raised $3 billion(at a $16.5 billion valuation) to push on withits battle againstUber. That 2015 round started out at $2 billion before additional interest pushed it up, and we understand that the same could happen with theround that is currently on the burner.Didi Kuaidi, which was formed a year agowhen Chinas top two on-demand services merged, is ahead of Uber based on total coverage of China among other metrics. The companys array of transportation options  which includes registered taxis, Uber-style peer-to-peer rides, shuttle buses, and chauffeur services  are available across more than 360 cities and towns in China. Uber, by contrast, was in 22 cities at the end of2015, althoughit recently kicked off a series of aggressive expansionsaimed at increasingit to 100 locations by the end of this year.Further, Didi Kuaidi is also ahead on rides completedper day. A company spokesperson told TechCrunch that across all of its services it is now handling 10 million bookingsper day, of which around half are (Uber-style) private car rides. Uber, for the sake of comparison, wasat 1million car rides per day in China as of last summer.Uber China, which is a separate division to Uber Inc (global), has also been actively raising. It closedan undisclosed amount  beyond its initial goal of $1.2 billion  at a $7 billion valuationin January.Didi Kuaidis spokespersonsaid that, of this month, it still had $3billionleft in the bank from previous rounds, so why does it need to raise even more money?Ubers argument is simple. It believes its rivalis burning so much money that it needs to keep topping its balance up. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick said as much last week in an interview with Betakitin which he branded Didi Kuaidi a fierce competitor thats unprofitable and, through a subsidies battle, is chiefly responsible for Uber investing $1 billion per year in China.The company wants to invest in its technology  so improving wait times, synchronizing its fleet, and more  while there are also platform-based synergies that it can tap into across its range of services. Acquisitions, perhaps fueled by its alliance with fellow Uber rivals Lyft, Ola and Grab, arent being ruled out but are not a priority, we understand.Im going to go out on a limb here and say that this probably isnt the last billion-dollar funding round from a ride-on-demandcompany in China this year. Theres plenty more to come from this battle.