Omnipresence seems to be the theme for Facebooks F8 conference this year. Today, registration opened allowing developers to apply for $495 tickets, though its free to livestream. One of the biggest changes about this F8 is that were going to include all the properties: Facebook, Oculus, Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp, Facebooks Director Of Platform Deb Liu tells me about the conference set for March 25-26 at San Franciscos Fort Mason Center.Facebooks developer products including Parse, Login, App Links, App Ads, Audience Network, LiveRail and Video will all see updates.Previous F8 conferences have stuck to Facebooks own developer and consumer products, but with two days this year, its expanding to show off its acquisitions and secondary apps.What we want to do is have developers think about us as all the tools we can offer, not just login and sharing that weve offered for many years,Liu explains.F8s first day will kick off with the traditional keynote by CEO Mark Zuckerberg, while the second day will feature Oculus. Theres also a big panel planned about the future of communication, starring Instagram co-founder and CTO Mike Krieger, WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton, and head of Messenger David Marcus.Facebook will also offer panels diving into how News Feed works, how the company builds apps through its Creative Labs initiative, and design tips. Oculus will give demos of its latest Crescent Bay virtual reality headset, and Internet.org will let devs test their apps in simulated developing world network conditions.You can check out Zucks keynote from last year below for a taste of how F8 works:Rather than just sell tickets first-come, first-serve, Facebook will keep registration open for a while, then review attendance applications to select who will get the spots. This makes sure Facebooks partners can get in, and everyone there is serious about learning. Liu says the rationale is to make sure the audience is diverse and reflects our global ecosystem.When pressed about what she meant by diverse, she said the company will look at factors including geographic location, type of business, as well as things like gender, race, and sexual orientation. To make sure it gets a well-mixed crowd, Facebook is working with organizations including Girls in Tech, Girls Who Code, the Anita Borg Institute, BUILDUP, Code For Progress, Hackbright, Transcode and Yes We Code.In past years, Facebook has laid out the foundational structure of what I call its PlAdform, which it describes as Build-Grow-Monetize. Now its time to tie the pieces together.Essentially, Facebook provides development tools like Parse, Login, and sharing to help people build apps. It then offers its ad products like App Install Ads and LiveRail as a way for developers to buy growth. Then Facebook can help developers monetize by hosting theirAudience Network ads and splitting the revenue with the social network. Its a smart strategy that gets developers to pay Facebook until they can make money together.This year, Facebook seems intent to extend that strategy across more properties. Well likely see ways to build deeper ties between developers apps and Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. Id also expect Parse to beef up its analytics to become a more full-fledged competitor to services like Mixpanel, possibly including ad analytics.Facebook wouldnt specify how long it will keep registration open, so devs should not delay if they want to be there at *the most social place on earth*.