CircleUp, an AngelList-style crowdfunding platform thatconsumer retail businesses like food companies use to raise moneyfrom outside investors, is announcing some funding of its own today. The company has raised a Series C round of $30 million  growth money itintends to use to build outits platform and product teams.Specifically, the company is working on new techto make finding, approving and helping businesses on its platform more foolproof.In thepast year, we have built machine learning algorithmsto evaluate companies, Ryan Caldbeck, CEO and co-founder of CircleUp, said in an interview. Thecompany is now crunching numbers from150 data sources to build better profiles of their fundraising companies, and it will be adding more. This is a key innovation, and no other company in this space is doing it.In fact, for what is essentially a business built a crowdfunding business model, CircleUp hasalmost gravity-defying anti-scale: only around 120 businesses have raised funds on the platform since 2011. But the amounts raised speak about the actual size of CircleUps ambition: each business averages at over $1 million raised, with $135 million in total raised on the platform. (And there is ever more being ploughed into funding: CircleUp itself earlier this year announced its own $22 million fund to coinvest.) CircleUp takes a 5% commission on funds raised on its platform.Caldbeck said using the algorithm is not asmuch about increasing the number of businesses that can list  although that will likely be a product of more efficiency  as it is about being able to extract better data to help make more informed decisions about investing.COO and co-founder Rory Eakin addedthat it is likely to be used in other ways, too. The data can be incredibly powerful to the businesses raising money, he said. Gathering data like thisto understand optimal valuation and other pricing can be expensive but essential for them, and nowwe can provide it, as part of our mission to help entrepreneursraise capital.The $30 million announced today takes CircleUps total funding to $53 million. The startupis not revealing its valuation except to acknowledgeit is still not in the realm of unicorns.The latestround was led byCollaborative Fund  a VC that has a strong track record of backingmarketplace and/or crowdfunding startupslike Kickstarter, AngelList, Lyft, TaskRabbit, andmany others.Capital One co-founder Nigel Morrisand theformer CEOs and presidents of Goldman Sachs, Thomson Reuters and the Stanford Endowment also participated alongside previous investors Union Square Ventures, Canaan Partners, Maveron and Rose Park Advisors. (Google Ventures, I was told, was not a part ofthis round.)Withthis fundraise, CircleUpis effectively making hay while the sun shines, Caldbeck told TechCrunch.We already had more than a years worth of cash in the bank, he said.But as an industry, we are now a year away from it being very difficult for later-stage tech companies to raise capital. We are in a period where the most sophisticated investors are realising that some startups are getting funding when they shouldnt.Even now the extra scrutiny can be felt. Investors really dug in a lot with our numbers, Caldbeck added. They liked what they saw so they invested.He calls CircleUp lucky for finding the process of fundraising relatively quick and easy  in contrast to the kinds of businesses CircleUp aims to help, and the gap the company hopes to fill.There are 1.4 million consumer retail companies in our size range in the U.S.alone, he points out, and consumer retail accounts for 20% of the U.S.economy.But these kinds of businessesonly account for 5% of VC funding. In that world, it doesnt really matter whether or not a famous angel is investing, he said. Instead, there is a strong reliance on data, much of which has up to today been largely non-existent, or hard, expensive and time-consuming to obtain. In theoffline world, it can typically take companies eight to 12 monthsto raise capital. Peoplein the tech world do not appreciatethis. These offline businesseshave not had a Silicon Valley developing data algorithms for them up to now.