A company that has developed a new way to secure access to online accounts, Cloudwear, is launching today onstage at TechCrunch Disrupt NY. Backed by a team whose experience includes building cloud-based applications for Harvard, MIT and the U.S. Department of Defense, Cloudwears system enables companies to better determine a users location, then lock or grant access based on that understanding.The system can be used alongside traditional two-factor authentication methodologies, or it can be used to secure accounts where two-factor authentication is not offered or switched on. The benefit, in the latter case, is that many users today dont want to deal with the hassles involved inusing the more secure two-factor technology. This often involves a code of some sort being sent to a usersmobile phone thatthey enter on a website after first typing their username or password combination. But while more secure, it slows down the login process.However,without that added layer of security, many user accounts today are left vulnerable to hacks. Thats the problem Cloudwear aims to solve.The startupwas founded around a year-and-a-half ago, and today is a small team of fewerthan 10inSanta Monica. The founders areEvan Tann, whose background includes projects in AI and robotics, as well as several software projects for large companies likeTelefnica, Samsung, GE, and others, andfor MIT and Harvard; and WendellBrown,co-founder of LiveOps and eVoice.The team says that 98 percent of all hacks today originate from outside the United States, according to Cloudwears analysis of some 10,000 hack events. If companies were able to accurately detect the originof a users login attempt, they would have a way to quickly flag thosethat appeared to be fraudulent. After all, someone who always logs in from their work or home IP address in the U.S. isnt likely to all of a sudden be accessing their accountfrom somewhere in China.While some online systems, like Gmail for instance, can alert userswhena suspicious login attempt is being detected on a remote computer, most sophisticated hackers know how to hide their real location using a VPN.Explains Tann, the idea for the system came about when they were working to determine how best to protectdata and figure outwhere requests were coming from for another project they were focusedon at the time.We started looking throughthe market and couldnt find any way to do it. If you just got a VPN, we couldnt see where in the world you were coming from, he says. It was very difficult, and it was a problem we couldnt figure out how to solve.So Cloudwear has developed technology that will help to locate the user in question, but not by the IP of the machine theyre using to log in to an online service, but rather by the location of the usersmobile phone. Viaa mobile SDK that can be embedded into a companys ownapp (or in an app that Cloudwear provides), the company is able to silently ping the users phone and request its current location.In other words, the process ofdetermining the phones current location is practically invisible to the end user.Afterward, the company using Cloudwear can determine how it wants to proceed if alog-in attempt looks suspicious. Even if the hacker hides their real, overseas location, its not likely that their spoofed IP address matches up with the actual locationof the users smartphone. The company could then request the user complete some additional steps to verifytheir identity, for example, or the company could block the login attempt entirely.Because of the way this system works, its not only applicable to consumer-facing online services, but also to internal corporate systems. Cloudwear says that its trial customers include businessesthat host extremely valuable and private data, like those in the healthcare, insurance, finance and tech industries.Also interesting is that it allows businesses to restrict logins to specific geographic areas  for example, in the demo shown today at Disrupt NY, the company showed how user logins at SpaceX (from where some of its team hails), could be locked down by whitelisting areas of access on a map.The company is currently testing its product, which also integrates with Azure Active Directory, with a handfulof big tech and insurance companies, and is now fielding requests via its website from other interested parties. Pricing for the service is still yet to be determined, though its initial customers are paying, the company confirms.While no system is entirely hacker-proof (and of course there will be times whendetermining a phones location is not an effective means of securinga log-in attempt) the system could at least be used as an additional layer on top of two-factor security, even if acompany didnt want to forgo using that more traditional means ofsecuring access to online accounts.Cloudwear is backed by less than half a million in angel funding and is raising a seed round now.