Just this morning,CloudFlareannounced a $110 million round led by Fidelity Investments, andon stage today at TechCrunch Disrupt,Michelle Zatlyn, CloudFlares head of customer experience, told TechCrunchs Frederic Lardinois the company definitely wont be IPOing this yearbut she hinted that its out there on the horizon.When a big round is led by a public market investor like Fidelity, its like firing off a flare that the IPO moment is coming, but like most companies, CloudFlarewouldnt commit to an exact trigger moment.CEO Matthew Prince would only say thatit was something they are working towards. We think we are on the track to beindependentstand-alone public company, he said.Interestingly, CloudFlare launched five years ago as a Disrupt Battlefield participant. It came close to winning, but didnt quite make it. Just today, backstage at Disrupt, I overheard TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington and Prince tell that Battlefield story. Arrington at the time, compared the winner to a shiny Ferrari and CloudFlare as boring muffler stuff.Today, in honor of that moment, Prince presented Arrington with a golden muffler on stage  and Prince and Zatlyn talked about companys more recent happenings.The investmentwent live this morning becausePrince said the company wanted to announce it in association with the Disrupt appearance, as an homage of sorts to that moment five years ago. Prince said, that raising money wasnt necessarily something startups should be proud of likening to a family getting a mortgage. Its something you need to do to, he said.That said, the company still needs revenue to bridge the gap between private funding and going public, whenever that should happen. We are building something big and transforming into something that works. And that does take capital, Zatlyn said. In fact, they are doubling in size every year.The company also recently made a significant deal in China with Baidu, which was also one of the investors in todays funding announcement. The Chinese deal has been in the works for almost as long as the company has been around, Prince explained.The company was able to deal with Chinese firewall issues by leaving all of the activity on Baidus servers and having no direct operations inside the country. As Prince pointed out, Chinese companies dont necessarily want to pass through US-based servers and US companies sometimes feel the same way about China.By partnering with Baidu, CloudFlare was able to satisfy both parties.As for the enterprise (which is near and dear to my heart), CloudFlare gets 50 percent of its business from larger customers. Prince said many of those are driven by people inside the company who started by using the free product, then introducing it inside their organizations.