When Sam Harrell arrived at the TechCrunch Disrupt Hackathon this weekend in New York City, he had an idea for creating something to do with Internet of Things an ambitious project to complete in fewer than 24 hours.He succeeded in creatingCloudSense, an IoTsolution that combined hardware, thecloud using a service provided by sponsor Atlantic.net, and an iPhone and Apple Watchapp.Harrell, who got his day job at NBC Universal after attending a hackathon, said he typically works onmobile solutions, but he came to this weekends hackathon with the idea of learning more about how the Internet of Things works.He hada sense of doing something to do withthe smart home, but wasnt sure what tools would be available that he could string together in the limitedtimeframe.I wanted to get something that could bolt onto existing appliances and home infrastructure, he said. The problem I see is we cant afford to rebuild everything [in the house] to connect to the Internet.Harrell, working by himself, managed to makean impressive amount of progress, getting the group of sensors communicating with the board, thenthe board communicating with the web server, and finallythe apps communicating with the web server. He also had to write the iPhone app, and then a simple Apple Watch app. He actually had just gotten hison Friday and hadnt had much time to work with it.It was fun because it was my first foray in Internet of Things hardware and the Apple Watch, he said.Heusedlight sensors, a speaker, temperature sensors and an accelerometer. You can buy kits thatinclude all of these sensors, but some of the sponsors supplied parts he needed. He got his Intel Edison board from another hackathon.The solutioncan let you know things like if you left yourgarage door open, if your appliance is on or off and how much water youreusing with monitoring capability on the iPhone and Apple Watch.The commercial version would be a starter pack of 10 or more small [sensors]the size of a half dollar that you would stick around your house to appliances, electrical equipment, doors or anything you want to monitor. And then you could monitor and track these devices from your phone and watch from anywhere in the world, he explained.He spent the entire time working on the project by himself, which left little time to prepare for the presentation. He admitted coding up until the very last minute and his board setup actually caughton fire just as he was going on stage to present. He was able to complete the demo, but with just a minute to present, it was hard to communicatethe full breath of his solution.He said he wanted to make the Apple Watch app fancier with color-coded alerts, but the coding wasnt taking. He ended up keeping itsimple and leaving the alerts inblack and white, but the fact he was able to include an Apple Watch solution at all in the allotted timeframe was impressive.Ilook at this as the start of working onthe Internet of things. I learned a lot about hardwareandwearables, he said.