Clover Health, an insurance startupbased out of San Francisco, is hoping that with its data-driven approach it can rebuild healthcarefor senior citizens from the ground up.It wantsthat by tracking all the inputs of a persons medical history from insurance claims and determining who the highest-risk patients are. Clover Health then works with those patients to help them become healthier and improve overall clinical outcomes. To pull that off, the company has raised $100 million inan equity round led by First Round Capital and debt.At the core were using data and software to build clinical profiles of people, identify gaps in care, and fill those gaps in care, Kris Gale, Clover Healths CTO, said. We have a small team that will do targeted interventions to drive improved health outcomes of people. Every in-patient hospital admission we can prevent by filling these gaps in care, this ends up being apositive for us.Clover Healths goal is to essentially go after the bigger, traditional Medicare health insurance companies that Gale argues dont use data to aim for better patient outcomes.To do that, it collects information like lab test results, radiology results and such to get an overall profile of a persons health  something only an insurance provider can do because its taking in all the claims, Clover Health CEO Vivek Garipalli said. It then uses software models to automatically identify issues like patients not regularly taking a prescription  and intervening with its staff of nurse practitioners and social workers.You imagine a Medicarepatient goes to a primary doctors office, goes to a cardiologist, goes to a hospital, there is no quarterback for thatdata, Garipallisaid. No one has the time or the data to guide that patient and coordinate all those interactions and make sure each provider gets the right info at the right time.This is a tough unstructured data problem with all these reports coming to the company. Itrequires creating tools that are able to mesh all those different forms of data into a unified system that can then analyze whether or not a patient is at higher risk.And the company has to figure out why that patient isat risk so it nows how to intervene. Thats why the companys strength is its technology, Garipalli said  and of course it was probably part of the big selling point for investors.Clover also has a better sense of its customersdue to the relationships it has with them through the staff members that work to improve the patient populations overall health on a more frequent basis. For older individuals, addressing health issues is almost a daily occurrence, whereas for a younger population its less important.Prior to raising this round the company was funded by its founders. Before Clover Health, Gale was an engineer at Yammer for more than six years, while Garipalli was an entrepreneur who started a number of different companies and started his career in finance.The government pays out a patientshealth insurance premiums to Clover Health through Medicare with Clover Health receiving lower premiums for healthy people, and higher for sicker people. So the company has an incentive to ensure that it can reduce the overall cost of care for all of its customers, both higher risk or otherwise.One of Clover Healths goals, for example, is to reduce the rate at which its customers end up in the hospital  and every unintentional hospitalization it prevents with more active, preventative care ends up a net positive to the companys business.At the moment, the company is particularly concerned with a few chronic diseases like type 2 diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseaseand congestive heart failure. Poorly managed type 2diabetes care, for example, can lead to expensive treatments that can many times be prevented, Galesaid. Clover Health, with its staff of nurse practitioners and social workers, can intervene at the right moment to try and prevent the condition from worsening.If we know something is on a 30-day refill and we havent seen a claim in 35 days, we know they arent taking it regularly, Galesaid. We can reach out  for example, maybe do they not understand how theyre supposed to be taking this  and intervene. This is info thats available to us because were the payer. The doctor that prescribed gave them a piece of paper thats now on them. The doctor doesnt know if theyre getting that filled unless theyre asking them regularly. Thats part of the data advantage.Clover Healths primary competition are the traditional Medicareinsurance companies, such as United Healthcare. But those companies arent collecting the data from their patients in the same way Clover Health does, First Round Capitals Josh Kopelman said.Still, those companies own much of the market, and they could always get their act together and throw larger resources towardcrunching data in a similar way (or buy their way into doing so). But it still comes down to execution  whichGaripalli is betting Clover Health will be able to nail.There are other startups, too, that are also trying to re-invent the health insurance industry like Oscar Health. But the two companies are targeting a very different demographic, and Clover Healths selling point is the technology that powers it.Its extremely defensible from start, it takes years to be Medicare certified and you have to do state by state or sometimes county by county, Kopelman said. Now when you look at the existing players, they operate with avery different dynamic, have very different relationships with providers, and their core approach is not through technology. Its like asking the question, what if GM wanted to build a search engine?'