Do you sometimes get the feeling that youre having a looooooong text conversation to accomplish some fairly simple planning? Ive certainly had tedious back-and-forths where Im trying to figure out when to meet with someone, and then where, and so on.Thats the problem that a startup called Cola is looking to solve. I first wrote about the company in November, when it announced its private beta. Today, its publicly launching its iOS app.Cola is a messaging app, but with Cola Bubbles that add more interactivity and functionality. So instead of texting someone Hey, when do you want to meet? you can just send them a Bubble with three times when youre available, they can choose the option or options that work for them, then you can both add it to your calendar. Or if youre running late, instead of typing out a message describing where you are and when youll arrive, you can just opt to share your location with someone for 15, 30 or 60 minutes.Other Bubbles include polling and shared to-do lists. None of these things might sound all that unique on their own, but the point is make this all accessible from a text message conversation, rather than requiring you to open a bunch of different apps. (And yes, you can send Bubbles to people who dont have the Cola app.)Cola Introduction Video from Cola on Vimeo.Cola CEO David Temkin said that in some ways, he sees text messaging as the next web browser. (Temkin previously worked at AOL, which owns TechCrunch  in fact, he worked on TechCrunchs mobile app.) That may sound a little far-fetched, but he argued that many of the features that you now find in mobile apps could move into messaging, in the same way that a lot of the functionality of desktop applications moved onto the web.To that end, he said these initial features are just the start. The aim is to turn Cola into a platform for outside developers  first by working directly with those developers, and eventually by releasing a public SDK.Messaging apps are never done, he added. They are the core function of these devices. They will never stop evolving.Cola is available for free, with plans to charge for premium features.