As text messaging takes over more of my communication, I find myself on lots of long and complicated chats where Im trying to plan and coordinate with multiple people. Now a startup called Cola aims to replace all that back-and-forth with a set of interactive Cola Bubbles.For example, lets say you wanted to messagesomeone and schedule a time to meet up. Instead of sending a bunch of Are you free Friday? No, but what about Thursday?-type messages, you can bring up your calendar from directly within the Cola messaging app, select three open time windows, then send a Bubble presenting those three times and allowing the recipient to choose the one that works best for them.Cola has also built Bubbles for sharing your location/estimated time of arrival, for polling everyone in the thread and for creating shared to-do lists. Yes, you can accomplish most of that with straightforward text messages, but again, it usually takes a bit of back-and-forth.Were winning when we save you the need to send 10 different text messages, said CEO David Temkin.Temkin was previously the general manager of AOL Mobile and Mail (TechCrunch is owned by AOL, and Temkin worked on the TechCrunch app). He founded the company with four other executives  Macromedia founder Marc Canter, former Adobe engineer Mike McEvoy, former iPhone engineer Jeremy Wyld and Postini founder Brian Maggi.Cola is also announcing that it has raised $1.3 million in funding from AngelList founder Naval Ravikants syndicate, tech executive Brad Garlinghouse, Tribeca Angels and others.Temkin was also the founder of Laszlo Systems, a company that built online applications. He argued that in the same way that the browser became the platform for the web, text messaging will increasingly become the platform for activityon the smartphone.We live in a world where the things we call phones are not phones  they are for texting, that is the main use of these devices that we call smartphones, he said. As a result, the Cola team views texting as your basic line of sight, while your peripheral vision is all these other apps.Thats why Cola is adding more functionality to text messaging, and why the bigger vision is to build an operating system that allows other developers whocan create Cola apps (or, in the companys parlance, Bubbles).As an example, Temkin suggested someone could create a Bubble for instantly sharing your flight information, so the person picking you up at the airport doesnt have to look it up. There are less obvious Bubbles in the works, including a game, he said.Messaging is an enormous category, hesaid. So while other companies try to make their messaging apps more fun, Temkin sees a green field insaving you time and makingyou more productive.The startup is currently accepting sign-ups for its private beta. The app is built for iOS, but you can send messages and links to Bubbles to anyone, even if they dont have an app, including users with Android phones.