Technologys neverending story has always, apparently, beenthe quest for The Next Big Thing. Whether that thing issomething entirely new and transformative unimaginable except within the fantastical confines of the sci-fi genre, say. Or justa far faster/more powerful iteration of the rough-round-the-edges gizmo sitting on your desk today  one whichdelivers a bona fide step change in performance truly worthy of the monikernext generation.But terms like next generationare threadbare with overuse. Its become a meaningless marketing label, along with bedfellows such asseamless, revolutionary and  all too often disruptive. The truth about computing technology is its in a far quieter and more iterative phase of evolution, because, well, the core animal has becomeso sleek and capable. Theres no great engineering gap in need of fixing. With the possible exception of battery life.There has always been an inherent restlessness to tech. And that built-in itch to turn the page appearsimpossible for the industry to shake  unsurprisingly so, given business models were bound so tightly to upgrade cycles for so many years.But what if the modern smartphone is, well, as good as it getsfor now? The pinnacle  at least for the foreseeable future  of consumer electronics computing achievements. For the next five, even 10 years or more. Until something far weirder comes along (hello ingestables?).What if the connected screen in your pocket is the computing platform withthegreatest reach andstaying power? Easily out performing the most powerful VR rig; more utilitarianthan a drawer-load of wearables will everbe; and trivially expandableto meet the userspersonal needs and tastes  by linking to whatever custom array of add-ons theychoose, whether thatsfancy connected hardware (drones, Geiger counters, smart jewelry ) or tapping into thevast wealth of extrasdeliveredvia software bolt-ons (apps, notifications, chatbots ), to truly personalize thatboring old mobile experience.Frankly I have never understood argumentsclaiming the mobile industry lacks innovation. Thats squarely missing the point. If you think phones are boring, well, chances are youre not thinking creatively enough about what you can do with the device in your pocket.Sure there will be improvements. Camera enhancements to deliver crisper photos, given the perennial photogenic obsession of the social web. Tweaks to UXto follow fashions and refresh designs. The forlorn hope of better battery life Hopefully there will also be improvements to mobile device security and privacy to lock more user data away from prying eyes,via the rollout of robustend-to-end encryption (albeitprogress theremight depend on theprevailing political winds ).Enhancements are welcome, of course. And some might be worthy of the transformative moniker. But most will simplycontinue to groom what is already a fantastically powerful and capable computing experience thanks to highly accessible interfaces, portability and near ubiquitous connectivity, multifaceted extensibility and, crucially, mainstream acceptance thanks to relative unobtrusiveness/minimal social awkwardness in the hardwares form factor.Voice-controlledplatforms such as Amazons Alexa seem to have consumer potential,too, but of course such systems can (and are) already embedded on mobile.The smartphone is not one device;its achameleon. Steve Jobs knew this explicitly when he pulled back the curtain on the modern smartphone era, all the way back in 2007  teasing the audience that Apple was launching a new iPod, a phone, an Internet communicator. These are not three separate devices. This is one device, he said, with aconjurors glee.Nearly a decade later that multifaceted one device continues to captivate.Techsproblem is not that it needs to find the next computing platform. Or that mobile platforms are tired and stale (see, for example, how little joy that argument has brought Microsoft and BlackBerry trying to carve an alternativeniche in the mobile OSspace). Techsproblem is thatindustry mindsets are still stuck withan out-dated upgrade-or-die mentality. Meanwhilemobiletechnology has becomeabsolutely mainstream. Its not siloed away in its ownTomorrows World segment of specialistmedia, to be screened after hours to an audience of geeks and nerds;its all over the main news bulletin. And that genie isnt about to go back in the bottle. The smartphone is here to stay. Its what people are doingwith their devicesthat matters.Theres a need for the industry toreconfigure and reset expectations to understand that the future is not about peoplestrapping a high tech eggbox to theirface and sweating alone in a darkened room. Its not even about engineers figuring outsophisticated ways to laserproject virtual objects onto retinas. (Even ifwhatever sight-disrupting goggles Magic Leap isbuilding manage to end up looking less socially awkward than a VR headset, exactly what pressing consumer problem will besolved by injectingvirtual content into the real world  i.e. thatcant already be solved with a smartphone?)catching a train in 2016 pic.twitter.com/L9f7n9kOno Internet of Shit (@internetofshit) April 5, 2016The future? Its undoubtedly going to continue to be shaped by the little sensor-packed screen that can.Its pretty telling that for all its extensive capabilities, the most popular and successful usefor the chameleonic smartphone continues to be communications. Indeed, messaging apps have becomehugely powerfulplatforms in their own right. People do lots of things with and ontheir phones. But overwhelminglythey use these devices to stay in touch witheach other  whether thats via Facebook, WhatsApp, Snapchat, iMessage, Instagram, email and so on. Communication remainsthe overriding imperative.So the point is its not reallyabout thetechnology. Technology isjust atool. The smartphones particular genius is that it gives us social animalsan entire communications toolboxto play with. And that has proved to betruly compelling and tenacious computing.