Social network Twitter has long been under fire for some of its internal issues when it comes to productsand how engineers work to develop and improve them. Now its made an acquisition that could help it improve things on that front. TechCrunch has confirmed that Twitter has acquired and will close TenXer, a platform for developers and engineers to work together better. We have confirmed the acquisition directly with tenXer CEO and co-founder Jeff Ma. And from another very good source we have also confirmed that the price was for under $50 million (we are working on getting a more accurate number).We will be shutting down tenXer and continuing our work within Twitter, Ma told me over the phone. We are excited to apply what weve learned in the last three years to a world-class engineering organization. After that he clammed up andreferred me to Twitter.Twitter has yet to respond to our requests for comment, which we have been sending to multiple people there for the last eight hours. (Update: Twitter has now pointed me to a Tweet of Mas also confirming the acquisition.)The deal was first reported by VentureBeat, based on a memo that co-founder and CEO Jeffrey Ma had sent out to customers, noting the acquisition and closure;along with a change on the bio of a former employee, who left before the acquisition took place. We actually received the same memo  which were copying below  but worried that it was an April Fools joke and have been holding out for more details. (Hey, it happens.)In TenXers own words, tenXer helps engineering leads be better managers. Using the data engineers produce every day (via GitHub, Pivotal, JIRA, etc.), we deliver the key views, stats and insights managers need to be effective and to help their teams be more productive.This isactually a pivot of sorts: the company in the past had also worked on pulling in different sources of data to help startups with decision-making but seemingly with a wider remit beyond developers and engineers. It also, interestingly, had some contact with Twitter in the past, serving as the star of a case study touting the benefits of advertising on the platform.From what we understand, the whole team will be joining Twitter to work on that same challenge. It sounds like it will be specifically for Twitter itself, although there is always the possibility that there will be a service developed for external developers, to complement the investments Twitter is making to provide more tools for that community, for example the launch of the Fabric developer platform. (Update: From what we understand, its main and only focus will be as an internal tool, not for external teams.)There is another interesting twist to all of this: Ma has a pretty interesting background in predictive analytics, which he applies these days mainly to sportsbut also further back to gambling.Twitter, of course, has been moving deeper into developing its own analytics services, and so I wouldnt be at all surprised if Mas skills were put to use here, too.(Hes also sold a previous startupto Yahoo in the past, Citizen Sports, which was folded into its Sports portal to power fantasy sports leagues and other services.)Its unclear how many customers TenXer had, but I would guess perhaps not too many, considering how little noise there was on Twitter or anywhere else yesterday when the note to customers was sent out. (Here isthe only mention of it that I could find this morning, for example, from someone as skeptical as I am I guess.)The company had raised about $5 million with investors including True Ventures, Google Ventures and Khosla.Well update as we learn more.The note reads as follows: