Editors note:Levi King is the CEO and co-founder of Crediteraand was previously president and co-founder of Lendio.Its interesting as hell that, as theworldcontinues to spew vitriol at the creepy collection and abuse ofdataby governments and big businesses, bigdataanddatasciencecompanies are still kicking ass. Fortunately for these businesses, right now governments and Facebook are thebad guys, providing super useful and convenient cover. That will change.Consumer and small business populations continue to become more privacy-focused, thanks to noise and frustration by whistleblowers and offenders. Snowden, Facebook, government overreach and abuse, and security breaches at Home Depot, Target, and others are causing us to think twice about ourdata whether thedatais known or unknown (or understood).The emergence of location-baseddatagathered by our mobile phone providers, socialdata, behavioraldata, Internet of things-generateddata combined with the use and abuse thereof  represents just the small beginnings of many nasty, uncomfortable problems that will fester over time. Awaris coming. The good news?Consumerswill win.We can partially predict the future by looking at the past. Over timeconsumersgot fed up with anotherdatavertical, one that operated in the dark, whereconsumerswere the victims of abuse and mistakes by credit bureaus and creditors. Eventually the consumer outcry led to the passing of the Fair Credit Reporting Act(FCRA) andthe Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, as well as thecreation of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau and other related legislation/agencies.Consumerdatabeing sold in the dark to third-party marketers led to legislation surrounding phone solicitation, lemon laws, and other consumer-centric protective legislation.Its only a matter of time until consumer agitation leads to new legislation or revision of existing legislation like the FCRA to extend consumer protection beyond creditdataand into any type ofdataused in risk underwriting, marketing segmentation or consumer modeling. I also believe its only a matter of time until Congress wakes up and starts extending these types of consumer protections to small businesses. Iconstantly witness the frequent creditdatamistakes that plague small businesses, causing them lost opportunities, higher costs, and difficulties in qualifying for favorable financing.Fortunately for bigdatacompanies, the federal government has been so toxic lately that little-to-nothing has been accomplished in this new category of consumer and small business protection.Existing companies would be smart to get ahead of this coming protective legislation apocalypse by adopting transparency now. Every business or governmental agency is viewed byconsumersand small business as an advocate or adversary  there is no middle ground. Those that are early adopters of transparency will be considered advocates and will gain strong loyalty and trust from their constituents. The converse is also true, that those avoiding transparency will be labeled as adversaries, a label nearly impossible to shed.Other companies will be founded upon the principles of transparency, and they will be richly rewarded.It seems like almost every consumer-to-business relationship starts in an adversarial fashion nowadays. Want a PayPal account? Prove to us you arent a scammer. Were always watching you. Want a loan from Wells Fargo or Lending Club? Were going to look at tons of personal info, plus dig up tons of dirt on you. But guess what? Were not going to share any of our findings with you.Once the relationship is established in adversarial fashion its nearly impossible for the business to ever be viewed as an advocate. Does my bank really value me? If they wont tell me whats in the black box of underwriting, what they look at, how they crunch the numbers, and how they arrived at a decision, then how can I believe theyre my advocate?Worst off will be the newdatasciencecompanies, operating entirely in the dark, unregulated, accountable to no one, selling raw and modeled dataon millions of individuals and small businesses. Imagine how invasive that will be perceived as the public comes to understand it all. They know where I spend my time, with whom I associate and what my secrets are. Then they model me, and then sell me over and over? The bastards. Thats the stuff that will getconsumerswriting to Congress.Transparency is the path to consumer loyalty and trust. Look at companies like Credit Karma, as leaders in customer transparency and trust. Be ahead of the curve, build an outstanding business, and dominate by playing offense instead of defense in the coming privacy wars.