Fieldwire, a San Francisco-based mobile and web platformdesigned to make collaboration on construction projects more efficient, has raised$6.6 million in fresh fundingled by Formation 8. Other participants in the round included Trinity Ventures and earlier backers BloombergBeta and AngelPad, theinvestment fund and accelerator where the company first gained investors attentionin the fall of 2013.The round includes $1.1 million in previously disclosedseed funding.Because Fieldwireis part of an increasingly crowded, ifnascent, group of startupsthatare zeroing in on thesame market, we decided to talk last week with cofounder Yves Frinault to learn more. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: One of your better-known competitors is PlanGrid. How doyourcompanies differ?YF: At our core, were atask management platform, working on tasks and collaboration, including with the foreman, the subcontractors, and labor; PlanGrid is more focused on digitizing and storingblueprints and construction documents.Were more likeAsana for construction; theyre more like Box. Its tasks versus files.TC: How big is Fieldwire at this point?YF: Wewerefive people. Weve doubled in the last four months to meet demand, but we could have been a lot more; we believe in dense, focused teams. As for [our clients], there are currently 35,000 projects on the platform [owned by] 1,000 companies.TC: So these are big clients.YF: When you operate a typical SaaS company, you usually start in mid-market and go up market. In construction, its different. The top line, half-a-billion-dollar companies are the ones driving the projects, so we found ourselves working with those guys  the large general contractors and specialty contractors  right away.TC: What do you charge them?YF: Fieldwire is free for small teamsofup to 15 people, who can use it for unlimited tasks and projects. When you go over that tier, which is our core focus, then we charge $20 to $30 per user per month.TC: How big a market would you say youre chasing?YF: The opportunity, they say, is prettymuch anywhere. Theres about $8.5 trillion spent on construction globally every year, and nine of 10 projects are late or over budget.Weretargeting the entirety of that market, andbecause we have bottoms-up distributed model, we can sell as easily in Australiaand Korea as the U.S. We already have projects in 100 countries.TC: How does adoption usually flow?YF: A foreman likes what were doing and they set up their project themselves and it impacts 30 to 50 people who want to deploy the software on many more projects.Weve spent some money on marketing and search ads, but we dont have a marketing unit. We dont go to conferences or conventions or have a sales team. Were 100 percent engineers, with 20 percent coding less to do other things.TC: Do you see other distributed industries eventually usingFieldwire?YF: We think construction will be themost impacted by mobile. Of the other large old-school industries, farming has already gone through a three to five x in terms of increased labor productivity. So has manufacturing. But in construction, that productivity hasnt been unlocked yet.Construction hasnt changed a lotuntil recently.Now, its changing at a hyper rapid pace, so along the way, well run into some dead ends. But were trying to stay close to see how people work; its a constant process to ensure were doing the right thing for them.TC: Whats the biggest problem youre solving?YF: The main problem in construction, the measure of productivity, is called direct wrench time; its the time spent doing actual work, tools in hand, like a carpenter installing wood. But ifyou take the average worker on a site, 30 percent is wrench time, and the other 30 to 40 percent of their time is spent preparing for a task because they dont have the right material or instruction and theyreidling for those things to come together.Productivityisnt an individual problem. The problem is managing the process.(Update: We originally reported that, altogether, Fieldwire has raised $7.7 million, which is incorrect; we didnt realize the company had folded earlier seed fundinginto this larger round.)