A group of conservative technologists wantseliminating regulatory policies affecting small businessesto be a key issue in 2016.Lincoln Labs, a conservative technology group pushing for small government, on Monday released a report outliningpolicies that would limit regulation, intellectual property laws and lobbying practices that the group thinks impede startups. The authors hope by publishing the report ahead of the Republican debate on Wednesday, they can ensure tech issueslike patent reform make it to CNNs stage.The discussion on how to grow the economy is always a discussion about tax policy,Derek Khanna, Lincoln Labs policy lead, said in an interview with TechCrunch. But tax policy is really divisive among Democrats and Republicans.Khanna believes economic reform could be achieved through focusing on issues that do not fall on partisan lines. However abstracttopics like patent reform are not frequently talked about in sound bite-driven campaign cycles. Khanna hopes to change that by injecting humor into the conversation. The report includes an image of the patent on Method of Concealing Partial Baldness. Though the combover may be a tongue and cheek dig at Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump,Khanna says the fact that such a patent actually exists.The report also outlines Right to Work 2.0, a plan to open economic sectors to competition. The plan would provide an avenue to do away with what Lincoln Labs believes are unneccessary regulatory laws through court challenges.As Wednesday approaches, its likely some issues pertinent to Silicon Valley could make it into the debate. Though patent reform may not be at the top of the list, cybersecuritywill likely be a key issue. In anticipation Bush on Monday unveiled a cybersecurity planthat hit hard at many of the Obama administrations failings in cybersecurity. The White Househas recently been strongly pushing for a cybersecurity bill, butBush alleges President Obamahas not done enough to force Senate Democrats wary of the bills privacy short comings to fall in line.Bushsplanalso called for the removal of regulatory barriers that limit the tech industry.In addition to cybersecurity and regulation, former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina has edged up in the polls to gain a seat in Wednesdays debate. She and Trump have been exchanging blowsfor the past week, and with his recent criticism of her tenure at HP, her business record is sure to come up in the debate.Khanna says so far no major candidate from either party has emerged as a champion of tech issues.He hopes that will change, and he and his team have been tweeting their report at the candidates ahead of the CNN debate.These issues are really important, andthey dont receive the attention they deserve, Khanna said.