When Microsoft settled its patent lawsuits with Google yesterday, it ended a long battle with the search giant, but it wasntanisolated action. It was part of a continuing pattern of serving its customers instead of its corporate ego. Whether its evolvingagreements with Apple, Salesforce or Box or putting an end to senselesslawsuits, Microsoft is attempting to presentan entirely new public face and fresh way of doing business.In a Bloomberg report yesterday, the two companies ended their fight with a statement of cooperation:Google and Microsoft have agreed to collaborate on certain patent matters and anticipate working together in other areas in the future to benefit our customers, the technology giants said in a joint statement.Notice the focus oncustomers. Thats not a coincidence.When I talk to analysts and other industry watchers, Ive heard a consistent story. CIOs want their tools to work together. They want their vendors to work together, and vendors who are at war with one another cant possibly be collaborating. Its just too hard.Microsoft appears to be listening. It doesnt hurt that like many largecompanies, Microsoft sees a shifting marketplace. Surely CEO Satya Nadella realizes the status quo, which was Microsoft being mostly uncooperativeand filing a bunch of lawsuits, was no longer going to work.Last week at Salesforce.coms Dreamforce customer conference, Nadella appeared on stage. Think about that for a moment. It wasnt that long ago that Microsoft was suing Salesforce for patent infringement  another patent lawsuit, how about that?Clearly there was a time when lawyers had way too much power inside of Microsoft and suing everyone in sight was the way to go, but thats changing. People talk about the new era under Nadella, andits hard not to notice a concrete change that is much more than window dressing or a good PR effort.That has meant a massive cultural shift inside the company, one which seems to have stunned some long-time industry watchers, who have beenused to a Microsoft that was traditionally difficult to work with. Thats no longer the case under Nadella, and the change is palpable to anyone paying attention.Nadella appearing at Dreamforce was part of that. Microsoft and Salesforceproducts work together and there is an increasing spirit of cooperation and camaraderie that Benioff expressed in his introduction.Satya and I have become good friends. We are delighted he accepted our invitation to come to the conference. He is an incredible person, an incredible visionaryand an incredible leader of an incredible company, Benioff told the packed auditorium.That he gave such an effusive introduction was, well, incredible, but Nadella spoke more broadly when asked by Wired journalist Jessi Hempel about the challenge of partnering across the industry.If you look at our industry, how is our industry going to succeed? Its only going to succeedif we can add value to our customers. Our customers are going to make choices that make the most sense for them, and its not going to be homogeneous choices. They are going to use all these different applications and multiple platforms. It is incumbent upon us, especially those of us who are platform vendors to partner broadly to solve real pain points our customers have, Nadella said.He added that he doesnt see this as a zero sum competitive game. Of course Microsoft will compete hardwithin markets, but he sees such a huge opportunity around digital transformation, andthese partnerships canonly help amplify that.The other day at BoxWorks, the Box customer conference, more conviviality was on display on stage. As with Salesforce, Box and Microsoft have not always had an easy relationship. Box made its early reputation with huge billboards on Route 101 in California making fun of Microsoft SharePoint, one of its earliest competitive targets.Courtesy of BoxBut times change and companies change and Box is making a slew of important friends including Apple, IBM and Microsoft. In fact, Box showed off how well integrated its servicesare with Microsofts cloud-based Office 365. CEO Aaron Levie pointed out that customerswho use Box are demanding this integration and the two companies are giving it to them.Apple too is finding ways to make friends with Microsoft. For years, the companies have been bitter rivals, but Tim Cook, speaking at BoxWorks on Tuesday attempted to burythe hatchet.Apple and Microsoft can partner on more things than we can compete on, and that is what the customer wantsOffice on the Mac is a force, Cook told the audience. Partnering with Microsoft is great for our customers and thats why we do it.There it is again: Its what our customers want. Microsoft certainly recognizesthat. Their new frenemiesdo too. Customers are insisting ona high level of integration and everyone is listening and trying to work together.A couple of years ago, this kind of esprit de corps among these disparate companies would have been unthinkable. Today its the standard way of doing business andMicrosoftis transforming before our eyes to be apart of it.