There are a growing number of startups taking advantage of Androids flexibility to deliver content directly to the smartphones lock screen, enabling things like alerts, ads, and even messaging  without requiring users to first unlock their phone and launch an app. A new startupcalled Corgi, available now on Google Plays store, is one of these new efforts, as it deliversnews directly to your phones lock screen.The application works in conjunction with the popular news reader Feedly, which today has somewhere between a million and 5million installs on Android, according to Google Plays data. The idea is that Feedly subscribers can use the Corgi app to tap into their current subscriptions, and have that content synced to their deviceslock screen  essentially turning the lock screen itself into a newsreader.Once installed, Corgi allows you to swipe up to read the article it presents, or you can swipe to the left to browse toother articles. Meanwhile, to simply unlock the phone, you just swipe right. And asyoure reading, if a given articleis truncated by the publisher, you can launch a browser in the app to read the entire story.Youre also able to use Corgi to share stories on social networks like Facebook, Twitter and Google+ as well assave the story for later reading through services like Pocket or Evernote.The app, which sports Googles brightly colored Material Design user experience, is the work of a distributed team of developers and designers Stan Dmitriev, Andrey Sharipovand Sergey Varichev, currently based in Finland, Thailand and Russia. Theyve actually been working on the product for 10months but previously launched a version of the app that didnt quite resonate with users. The feedback they received at the time was that users didnt quite understand how it was meant to work.The team then went back to the drawing board and redesigned everything, resulting in the app thats live today. The new app is only a couple of weeks old, but has already been featured on new product aggregator Product Hunt where its hit todays front page.Dmitriev says the attention is unexpected, and admits the app still has a few kinks to work out. The service works well on most Android KitKat and Lollipop-powered smartphones, he notes, including the Google Nexus and Motorola-branded devices. However, other users have reported bugs which he attributes to driver issues. The team expects to roll out fixes for these in a release arriving next week.Also arriving in the forthcoming version is a feature that will be handy for those Feedly users with a larger number of subscriptions. The app will soon include the option to let you pick and choose which of your feeds actually show up on the lock screen. That way, you can use Corgi to track just your most important news sources instead of everything you may followin your Feedly reader.The startuphas a small amount of angel funding through a single investor, butis looking to raise a couple hundred thousand more in order to develop its technology and its business further.Dmitriev explains that they would like to one day license their framework to others who want to build out custom lock screens of their own, similar to Microsofts Android lock screen, for example.Corgi for Feedly is a free download on Google Play.