You sit down at your local coffee shop and fire up the WiFi. Everything seems to work just fine.The network name is the same; all of your pages load just fine  theres no real indication that anything whatsoever is amiss. You browse around a bit, without giving the router a second thought.Alas, you never actually connected to the coffee shops WiFi at all.Youve instead connected to a router built to look and work just like the one you wanted with one big difference: this router is silently gobbling up all of the private data youre piping through it  the credit card numbers, the social security numbers, the trade secrets  and sending it off to be perused and mined by who-on-earth knows.This may sound like Mission Impossible Itll never happen to me! type stuff, but its a growing problem. In the last few years, specialized hardware built to clone and conquer in-place, legitimate WiFi routers has plummeted down to the $50-$100 range.And the problem hardly ends with WiFi. A number of easily obtainable boxes exist to clone and overpower in-place cellular towers. While your phone is connected to one of these towers, any texts or calls you make are handed right over to your attacker.Spookier yet, some of these fake towers can command your phone to change its internal data routing (APN) settings, ensuring that it continues piping your private data to the attacker even once youve left the area.Its a complicated problem  but its one that CoroNet, a company competing in the TechCrunch Disrupt NY Startup Battlefield, aims to fix.How?CoroNet Connect analyzes 300+ characteristics about the WiFi/Cellular networks around you and attempts to flag and block the bad ones.While the company is keeping many of the characteristics they look for under wraps to keep their algorithms tricky, they did list a few of the more basic/obvious examples:Theyve got it up and working on most of the major platforms, with support for iOS (without jailbreak), Android, and Windows. OS X support, meanwhile, is said to be in the works.With that in mind, how do you get it? Well, you dont  not unless youve got a fleet of devices under your administration, at least. CoroNet is currently focusing strictly on enterprise, with hopes of helping Fortune 500 companies secure their employee devices.CoroNet is being built by a team of 13, founded by four gents out of Israel: Dror Liwer, Doron Milchtaich, Carmel Domshlak, and Guy Moskowitz.Judge Q&A:As the attack vectors change, how do you update the detection?Theres no silver bullet. Our technology is looking for anomalies, whether theyre new anomalies or known, and we have labs that are constantly searching for new attack vectors.Do you send data back to a central hub for machine learning of new threats?Yes.In terms of customer acquisition: is that to acquire enterprise customers, or consumer customers?Were focusing on enterprise right now; we do not intend to sell direct to consumer.Whats the battery impact?About 1% per day. What happens when a bad network is flagged? Is it blocked, and can the user unblock it?There are two modes, depending on the users role/position in the system. In the executive role, you can unblock connections as desired.