Co-founder and general partner Ali Hamed describes his firm CoVenture as a new type of venture firm, a service-focused firm  and hes announcing that its raised $3 million in funding.For the most part, the money wont go directly into startups, but rather to funding CoVentures operations. Hamed told me the firm employs 55 developers and designers in Lahore, Pakistan, and it offers their services to startups in exchange for equity. In New York City, the biggest dearth of anything is engineers  its the number one limiting resource, Hamed said.But shouldnt startups be building this stuff themselves? Hamed argued that this can actually be the wrong approach, particularly if youre a founder without any technical skills. Sure, you could try to find a technical co-founder, but that might mean hiring the first remotely qualified person you find and giving them a crazy amount of equity, even if theyre not really ideal for the job.Wouldnt it be better to wait until youve got a real product and some users, and then raise some money, and then hire a technical team? At least, thats what Hamed is proposing.He also noted that CoVenture backs tech-enabled companies rather than tech companies. In other words, the firm isnt looking for startups with a big technical breakthrough, but rather experts in other fields who want to use technology to solve problems in those fields.The CEO still needs to be head of product, Hamed added. Its our job to teach them how to be head of product.The firm is also announcing that it has expanded its team with two new partners, Thatcher Bell and Mike Beller. Bell is an Investor-in-Residence at Cornell Tech, the universitys new graduate program in New York City, and he was previously a partner at Gotham Ventures. Beller is a member of the Advisory Council for Entrepreneurship at Cornell, and he founded Diamond Technology Partners, a consulting firm that went public before being acquired by PwC.Those Cornell connections probably arent a coincidence. Hamed was a student there  specifically a former athlete who redirected his energies into entrepreneurship after an injury. He told me that he and Bell lead the investing side of the business, while Beller and their fourth general partner, Jamil Goheer, lead product.The new funding comes from a whopping 57 investors, including Bob Adelson of Osage Partners, Gerson Lehrman Group, and Great Oaks Venture Capital. That might seem like, well, a lot, but Hamed said it helps him get dealflow from 57 people who are active in the startup scene.And while most of the money will go to operations, CoVenture can also invest a little of it to give companies a bridge while they raise other funding.CoVenture says it has invested in 15 companies so far, including Enriched Schools (temporary staffing for schools), Bib + Tuck (secondhand fashion), and FireStop (dispatching software for fire stations). It plans to invest in another 22 companies over the next two years.