Ever wanted to grab your smartphone to snap a quick photo, but didnt want to be obvious about it? COVR Photo has you covered with a freshly launched iPhone 6 case that includes a tiny periscope.It enables you to use your phone and camera as usual most of the time, but if you want to slip into sneaky, spying sleuth mode,slide the mirror assembly across the lens and youll be able to pretend to text while snapping your photos.With COVR Photo, you can look like youre merrily texting away, when youre really taking photos.Developed by seasoned photo journalistThomas Hurst, the COVR Photo device is marketed as the perfect tool for street photography. Which sort of makes sense, but I cant help but think that even with the rapidly increasing quality of smartphones,the iPhone isnt really the right tool for the job.Be vewwy, vewwy quiet Im hunting candid photographs.As a street photographer myself, Im a little bit torn about this innovation, too. Yes, candid shots are oftenbetter than semi-posed photos on the street, and there is definitely something to be said for capturing moments unobserved. As DIYPhotography points out, you can already achieve a similar effect with cameras that have an articulating screen, enabling you to shoot from the hip with a quick glance down to help you frame your images.There is a point, however, where your photography slides from sneaky to downright creepy, and as a candid photographer, youre always toeing the line between capturing a genuine moment and being just a tiny bit creepy. To wit:In some countries, including Japanand South Korea, sneaky photos became enough of a problem that they passed a law that a phone camera has to make a sound (even if its switched to silent mode) so its clear to the people around you.That slight ethical niggle aside, the COVR Photo case looks like a solid design, and the prism element doesnt really do the photo quality much harm. The design has been around since it launched as a Kickstarter campaign for iPhone 5a little while ago  and the original design shouldstill work fine on the recently launched iPhone SE model.Its a shame the prism doesnt fold up into the phone case.There are two small problems with the COVR Photo accessory. One downside with the prism is that when you use it, the image on your phone will be flipped upside-down (that is how mirrors work, after all). There is a companion app that helps you flip your preview image right-way up again, but it does mean that if you prefer to shoot with the stock app or another photography app, youre out of luck.The bigger problem, in my mind, is that the prism juts out from the case. It would have been nicer if it flippedout of the way; itlooks like that should have been possible, but then again, Im not a product designer. With the little triangular sticky-outy-bit (forgive me for the technical jargon here), your phone effectively doesnt go in your jeans pockets anymore, which would be a deal breaker for me; its a shame they didnt revisit that design decision when re-designing the device for iPhone 6.