When a New York Times piece came out in August that described Amazons workplace culture as bruising, Amazon cofounder and CEO Jeff Bezos acted quickly to dampen the storys blow. He wrote a memo to employees saying the account doesnt describe the Amazon I know and pointed out a separate piece by an Amazon engineer who described the Times article as utter reader bait.It was a smart approach, suggests Marina Ein, whose Washington, D.C.-based crisis communications firm has represented Michael Milken and Dominique Strauss-Kahn, among others. I thought the company was acting on very good advice, she says.More confounding to Ein is a new post authored by former journalist and current Amazon spokesman Jay Carney, in which Carney not only systematically attacks the now two-month-old Times piece for being imbalanced but works to undermine several former employeesquoted in the story.One is former site merchandiser Bo Olson, who spent roughly20 months at Amazonand had told the Times for its story,You walk out of a conference room and youll see a grown man covering his face. . .Nearly every person I worked with, I saw cry at their desk.Wrote Carney of Olson today: Hisbrief tenure at Amazon ended after an investigation revealed he had attempted to defraud vendors and conceal it by falsifying business records.When confronted with the evidence, headmitted it and resigned immediately.I think its crazy, says Ein of Carneys unexpected missive. When you have a damaging story with collateral implications for the future, you tamp it down. You dont reawaken it and draw more attention to it than it might have received in the first place. (According to the Times, its Amazon piece has received more than five million page views already, making it among the outlets most-read stories of the year.)OutingOlson makes it worse, says Ein. Not only does it sound vindictive, but I dont think theres any time that its wise for a company to get into the personal and confidential details of an employees hiring or firing.Inhis post, Carney explains that Amazon felt compelled to take action when the New York Times wouldnt listen to its arguments. We presented the Times with our findings several weeks ago, hoping they might take action to correct the record. They havent, which is why we decided to write about it ourselves.Unlike Ein, crisis manager Jeff Eller approvesof Amazons no-holds-barredstrategy, noting that it has worked effectively in the past, including in a similar tussle between the New York Times and Wal-mart last year. One day after the Times published an opinion piecethat characterizedWal-mart as a net drain on taxpayers, Wal-mart battled back, cheekily annotating the piece with notes that include, We are the largest taxpayer in America. Can we see your math?Says Eller, who representedFirestone in its tire recall in 2000andGeneral Motors in its ignition switch recall last year, Theres this inherent perception that the Times is too big to tackle. ButI dont think so. They put their pants on just like everybody does.Still, fighting back aggressively is one thing. Fighting back longafter people have stopped talking about a story is another. Certainly, thetiming of Amazons newest responseto the Times is, well,strange.Indeed,a third, topcrisis manager who asked not to be named has another theory about Amazons latest lob, which isthat another shoe may be abouttodrop.It could be that Amazon is pissed off, as seems to be the case, says this veteran of public relations.Amazon could also be trying to issue a warning; itcould be that theres a class-action suit in the works. (Indeed, employment attorneys have previously suggestedthat acreative attorney could probably make hay with theanecdotes published in the Times.)A third possibility, suggests this person, is that something else is coming that we have no line of sight into yet, like a news magazine like 60 Minutes or 20/20 thats preparing a segment.Certainly, it wouldnt be unprecedented, given the many Times stories to be picked up by other outlets, including nightly news magazines. Amazon is understandably a popular topic for their viewers, too.Alas, only time will tell if the story of Amazons workplace culturefades away again or theres more to come.Asked about Carneys post today, a spokesman for 60 Minutes said simply in an email, We dont discuss what we may or may not be working on.Amazon declined to comment further.