
Arthur Chu is a lifelong geek who catapulted into notoriety in 2014 for "hacking" the game show Jeopardy! and has been commenting about nerd culture in the digital age ever since.Ive seen a lot of people on social media talking about Saturdays New York Times article by Jodi Kantor and David Streitfeld about Amazons toxic workplace culture. Lots of people saying they find the level of stress and pain workers were put through unconscionable80-hour work weeks, midnight emails, people threatened with termination because they let health problems or childcare affect their productivity. People breaking down crying at their desks. Purposeful Darwinism.Ive seen people proclaim that this is the last straw, that theyre canceling their Prime membership, that theyre boycotting Amazon purchases, that theyre moved to speak up because Amazon has gone too far.Really?I honestly dont see it. Yes, it sounds like a terrible place to work and I wouldnt want to work there. But the stories are not that unusual for the tech world. Indeed, Nick Ciubotariu, the Amazon employee who took to LinkedIn Pulse to defend his employer, has posted a harrowing story of a coding death march at a different employer that indeed does make Amazon sound comparatively humane.Again, dont get me wrong, I think these practices are unconscionable and need to cease wherever they occur. I also think its obvious that these practices will lead to discrimination: Any set of standards that includes intangibles like assertiveness will harm women, who are treated far more negatively for assertive behavior than men. Any workplace culture that demands you sacrifice your life at home for your life at work will punish women, who are generally expected by their partners and by society to shoulder the burden of housework and childcare.And I think its obvious that in any sufficiently large company there will be people like Ciubotariu who are generally happy with their lot and who will seek to use their anecdotal evidence to disprove everyone elses experienceand that, for obvious reasons, theyre far more willing to put their names behind their stories than the complainers.But these are still, as we say, First World problems. White-collar Amazon employees have choices about where to work. The Times article acknowledges that the initial welcome video straight-up says You either fit here or you dont, and that in Seattle the company has a widespread reputation for its toughness.For now, you have a choice whether to work for Amazon. For now, you have options. Amazon is the vanguard of a very scary movement in the tech sector but were not all there yet (though some techbros on Twitter seem happy at the thought of Amazon culture catching on).It still does suck for people who get lured into a toxic environment thinking they can hack it, thinking theyll be rewarded or even become better, stronger people for taking that kind of abuse, and finding out too late what kind of cost it extracts from them.But what about everyone else?Why do we care suddenly about working conditions when it turns out that white-collar employees are the ones getting shafted? The workers at Amazon fulfillment centers have much less choice and much less power than the marketers and engineers in the Times piece.As spartan as Amazons offices might beNo in-office food service! No on-site masseuse!I doubt any of them were ever in danger of dying from heatstroke because no one thought to provide them with air conditioningwith the added black-comedy detail of the company having an ambulance waiting outside for those workers who inevitably do collapse.They may feel like theyre in an Orwellian panopticon with superiors and peers constantly passing around emails judging each others performancebut I dont think theyre being tagged with GPS trackers like animals and having all of their movements constantly monitored for inefficiency. However grueling their workday is, theyre not getting blisters from walking 15 miles a day.And however high the attrition rate for white-collar Amazon employees is, their experience cant possibly be as sadistically Kafkaesque as hiring temps for six months of seasonal work, then slapping them with an eighteen-month nationwide non-compete.Were acting shocked and horrified that Amazon applies what it calls purposeful Darwinism to people with MBAs and PhDs, but the career of its warehouse employees has been less Darwinian than Hobbesiannasty, brutish and short. Less survival of the fittest than nobody survives, in with the next batch.And what about how Amazons purposeful Darwinism has affected the rest of the world with which it interacts? Amazon started as a place to buy books, not because CEO Jeff Bezos has any particular affection for books but because they were easy to pack and hard to damage. How has Amazon becoming the worlds bookstore affected authors, editors and publishers, the people who make these books we love?More cutthroat competition. More hardball tactics. Margins squeezed as thin as they can possibly get, huge lists of books and authors vanishing from the Amazon catalog if publishers wont get with the program. Using Wal-Mart-style price-dumping to ensure they end up the only game in town, openly attempting to put the publishing industry out of business and replace it with their cut-rate ebook version of it.And what of Amazons expansion away from the book market? How has Amazon becoming the worlds Everything Store affected all the producers of things that arent books?The same, basically. If youve ever wondered how the economy can be doing so well on paper and yet so many people are still struggling, its because all the retail jobs are going away thanks to disintermediation, i.e. cutting out the middleman.The middleman, unfortunately, ends up being most of us. It starts with the independent bookshops and Mom n Pop corner stores, it goes on to hit Barnes and Noble and the local supermarket. Before long the only jobs left will be the jobs at Amazon itself, which will themselves soon be replaced by robots and delivery drones.On top of that, the fact that Amazon got its market share initially by avoiding sales tax and taking money away from building and maintaining schools, hospitals and highways is just icing on the cake. That and the fact that Amazon charges such low prices by funneling our money toward surreal hellholes in other countries stuffed with children making less than a dollar an hour doing work that makes an Amazon fulfillment center seem like a vacation.But lets be fair to Jeff Bezos here. Its not his fault. This is the world you and I voted for. Every time we clicked Place your order, we were casting our ballots for a world of purposeful Darwinism, for accelerating demands for greater and greater efficiency that weed out more and more of the world until only the most ruthless remain.Jeff Bezos even told us this. He told us that he was doing it for us. All the paeans to Amazons efficiency talk about their customer-obsessed culture, how everything comes back to bowing and scraping to please the customer. Whenever theyve done something egregious like pull down all of a publishers books from their catalog, theyve sent out passive-aggressive emails assuring us theyre doing it for the sake of the customer.Well, to quote the head of the National Recovery Administration, General Hugh Iron Pants Johnson, Who is the consumer? Show me a consumer. Youre only a consumer after youve made money working as a producer that you then spend on stuff. Making jobs increasingly scarce and increasingly horrible for those who can get them in the name of helping the customer just end up hurting the customer, because in the long run customers and workers are the same people.(Not all customers, of course. In the end the only customers left standing will be the ones with enough money to start with that they can keep on making money to buy stuff without having to worksay, by owning Amazon stock. Capitalism regresses toward feudalism. To learn more, go actually read that Piketty book everyone bought and pretended to read a year ago.)Thats in the long run, of course. In the short run its only the people in China who are getting screwed, or the people in America who lack college degrees and have to take hourly blue-collar work and therefore dont count as much as you or me. Maybe its people who work retail who get screwed, or those weirdoes who own little corner stores, or, of course, those spoiled and entitled writers whose work doesnt really count as work and who therefore shouldnt complain.But the march of capitalism is inexorable. Purposeful Darwinism spreads its way upward. Sooner or later it was going to be the software engineers, the marketing gurus, the supply chain analysts getting screwed. The finely-tuned machine of progress needs fewer and fewer of us to do its work every day, and it can therefore work us harder and harder, with increasingly relentless brutality.Purposeful Darwinism gets us all in the end. And we were welcoming it with open arms because of how addictive it was to be able to buy more and more stuff at lower and lower pricesuntil the beast came to our own doorstep, until it was too late.