Even if you create and use secure passwords with your various online sites, there are still a number of ways they can leak out. One area thats often overlooked, according to password manager anddigital wallet provider Dashlane, is email. That is, people often share their login credentials and plain-text passwords along with other sensitive data via email messages. That meansif hackers get into your inbox, they can quickly gain the keys to a wide range of your accounts. And if you tend to re-use passwords, thedamage could be even worse.Thats why Dashlane this week rolled out a new tool called Inbox Scan which will automatically search your email inbox for vulnerable information, including passwords youve shared.The service, available online at dashlane.com/scan, is an easy-to-use tool that scans your Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, or Aol email for sensitive information. To use the tool, you authenticate with your email provider in order to give Dashlane temporary (and read-only) access to your inbox for the purpose of the scan. None of your personal data is stored when the scan is complete, however.The scans assessment will then provide you with an inbox health report which includes details on how many passwords were present, as well as additional details, like the number of accounts created, those affected by breaches, notifications of weak or re-used passwords, and more. In order to identifythese latter items, the Inbox Scan system looks for those automated emails that arrive after you sign up for new services.Your accounts are displayed to you visually as a collection of bubbles, where the larger the bubble, the more important the account. Meanwhile, red bubbles mean Inbox Scan found a plain-text password associated withthat account.As someone who has probably signed up for every online service since the Web 2.0 days and has been using Gmail since day one, my Inbox Scan report was somewhat intimidating. It would have been helpful if the tool could have eliminated those accounts for dead startups whose domains no longer resolve, for example, but I realize this is not a mainstream users problem.Since Dashlane doesnt store any of its conclusions, if you want to begin to fix the problem, you have to download the full report (a PDF) in order to parse through the data in more detail. Of course, you can also just use Dashlanes app itself to fix your insecure, breached, or re-used passwords, too.According to Dashlanes CEO Emmanuel Schalit,one of his companys studies found that only 1% of Americans believed email as the item they were most afraid of hackers stealing. But in reality, he explains, its the favorite target for hackers because of the volume of personal information we keep in our accounts. The idea with Inbox Scan, then, is to help close up this hole. While its not going to protect your inbox from actually being hacked, of course, it could limit the damage a hacker could do if they were able to get in.The program worked well for me on Gmail, but crashed on my Hotmail, so your mileage may vary, as they say.Still, given that Inbox Scan is an entirely free tool and is offering some fairly critical information you can and should take action upon, its hard not to recommendat least trying it out. The scan itself only takes a few minutes, depending on the size of your inbox, so its something you could doat any time.