Data, data everywhere and companies sucking it upat breakneck speed, sometimes without rhyme or reason, just feeding the big data collection machine.A few years ago in an interview with Forbes, Tim OReilly famously said, The Guy With The Most Data Wins. It seems his statement was prescient, or perhaps organizations took ita bit too seriouslyand have beencollecting as much data as they can ever since.Yet all of this data gatheringcomes with a host of ethical, moral andlegal issues around ownership and proper collection and usage. Just because wehave developed the technology to accumulate all of this information, doesntmean we areprepared to deal with the problems it poses, suggests Susan Etlinger from Altimeter Group, who helped author a recent report called The Trust Imperative, A Framework for Ethical Data Use.A lot of major technology shifts tend to get out ahead of our ability to understand and apply them. Sometimes thats alright and we catch up and sometimes its problematic, she said.Over the last several months there has been a growing body ofevidence from organizations like Pew, Annenberg School for Communication and the Altimeter Groupthat people are actually much more interested and concerned about consent, collection and analysis related toall of this data, then we have been led to believe.That suggests that businesses need to take data privacymuch more seriously, andbeginputting customers at the center of every data decision they make.There is a prevailing belief that weare OK with companies using our data because we get these services for free in exchange, but recent data suggests that may not be the case and companies may be taking a risk by playing fast and loose with our data.A report by the Annenberg School for Communication (.pdf) published last month found that this notion that consumers are willing to make a trade-off of data for discounts or services is in fact overstated.By misrepresenting the American people and championing the trade-off argument, marketers give policymakers false justifications for allowing the collection and use of all kinds of consumer data often in ways that the public find objectionable, the report stated.In fact, the study, which asked 1506 adults over 18 about their online privacy concerns found, 91% disagree (77% of them strongly) that If companies give me a discount, it is a fair exchange for them to collect information about me without my knowing.'The Altimeter Groups report found a direct correlation between trust and business gains. Considerthat80 percent of respondents said that in the last 12 months, they boughtproducts from trusted companies, 68 percent recommended the companyto a friend and 54 percent paidmore for a trusted companys products.That kind of data suggeststhat CEOs need to start directing their companies to rethink their assumptions about data privacy and the impact it could be having ontheir relationships with customers and even their bottom line.If the current system is broken, how can we make it easier to help consumers understand and control the data they are sharing freely now? We have certain industries such as healthcare, which cant use our data freely because of HIPAA regulationsstrictly controlling its use.If companies are careful with medical information, whycant we do better in controlling all types of data? Etlinger says companies need to establish clear guidelines around how they use data and always keep the customer first when making these decisions. In fact her report offers clear advice on how to build a customer-centered data policy.Etlinger suggests that maybe its time we put as much creativity into context-based privacy notifications aswe put into sales and ads. We are very good at sales in context. Why [cant we do better with]privacy to make the customer experience more trustworthy, she wondered.Steve Wilson, an analyst at Constellation Researchwas even more blunt in a presentation last month, We are putting the smartest people in the world not to cure cancer, but to find better ways to serve ads, he said.It can be done, Etlinger says. She points to Pinterest as an example, which introduced a new buy button and sent users an email recently with a two paragraph explanation in clear language about what it meant. It was respectful of users and clearly written. She wonders why more companies arent doing this.If business doesnt start to build more sensible privacy policies and take the lead on this, Etlinger and Tim Walters, who studies privacy issues for Digital Clarity Group,believe the government will, and that lawmakerstend to use blunt force when theyget involved.If market participants wont help themselves (or stop harming others), the government will step in. The government is inevitably ignorant of the technical issues and far out of date in their understanding of the real benefits and threats. They therefore create crude, broadbrush solutions that typically make life worse for both sides of the debate, Walters said.Walters believescompanies have to lead on this issue, be direct and help their customers understand what they are doing in terms of privacy. Data collection in itself isnt inherently evil, but companies have to be more forthright about what they are doing because customers are watching.Many people are tuned in, and if a company takes a stand  like [Apple CEO Tim] Cook, or in whatever way makes sense given the business model  many will at least pay attention. This does not mean swearing off data collection altogether. It makes more sense to announce some kind of opt-in program, with clear incentives and benefits for the consumer, he said.Etlinger believesthis is a pure business issue and there is increasing evidence that this is a trust issue for consumers. I think that one reason I wrote that report was because its in business best interest to be privacy safe. We are at the very beginning of this data universe we live in, she said.There is no silver-bullet solution to these issues, orone-size-fits-all privacy policy. Thereneeds to be more organizational experimentation and accountability, and it needs tobe something that spans the entire organization.Companies who arent thinking about this are putting the businessat great risk, Etlinger said.