On Friday, CEO Ted Bailey of Dataminr swung by our temporary studio set-up in Davos, where Bailey appeared to having ahighlyproductivetrip. As he told us then, hed already met Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, enjoyed a one-on-one dinner with Ciscos legendary former CEO John Chambers, and was on his way to meet for the first time with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella.While we had him, we askedBailey for a little more detail about how his real-time information discovery platform works;whether he worries about Twitter, on which Dataminr is heavily reliant; and if he at allregrets letting Fidelity Management lead a$130 million investment in his company last March. (Last November, at the same time that it slashed the value of numerous other investments, Fidelity marked down the companys value by 35 percent.)You can see the entire interview below, or you can just read the lightly edited highlights here:TC: Your business looks at social media to create a kind of sentiment analysis. Is that correct?TB:We do look at social media, but we differentiate ourselves by being real time, so we identify early information when people tweet and other sources before the news wires. Weve pioneered real-time information discovery, meaning discovering information before its a trend.TC: What are you looking for?TB:It runs the gamut. Our customers run from investment professionals, [including] hedge funds and investment banks, to 250 news organizations, to public safety professionals, like major cities, fire departments, offices of emergency management . . .What Dataminr tries to do is enable our customers to know about things sooner. Lastyear for example, there was a big gas explosion in New York City, and when that happened, people around it acting as a real-time sensor for what was going ontook photos and tweeted pictures, and there was a signal we found in that. And we sent an alert to the [NYFD], and they said, Oh, wow, theres a huge fire; were going to send out the fire trucks. After that, they received the first 911 call.TC: Isthere more you can tell us about what youre watching for? Does it include emotional sentiment? Are you mostly looking for numbers?TB:Its a different science than emotional analysis. We use many unique machine-learning models, and if you think about social media, its an archive of everything thats ever happened and how the world reacted to it. Did [people]care? Who cared?You look across that archive, see those events and which ones got various responses, then we actually have an algorithm that looks for the same pattern as the beginning of things that were significant. So its a different approach . . . a very unique proposition.TC: It sounds like youre very reliant on Twitter.TB: Twitter has been incredibly pervasive on the real-time front. There are many companies, many social platforms, that have a lot of interesting information in themTC: But no one is racing to Facebook to say theres a fire in Brooklyn.TB:When it comes to real time, Twitter is dominant, and for me, I really view Twitter as one of the most revolutionary companies of the century. In the context of Davos and thinking about [its theme this year of] the fourthindustrial fourth revolution and [which] companies are bringing about systemic worldwide shifts, Twitter has changed the worldwide information flow in real time.TC: Twitterisphenomenal, but its also beleaguered, with people using it less and less. How does that impact your business. Is that a concern?TB:For us, Im very bullish on Twitter. I believe in that fundamental value. I think one of the things thats lost in the mix of PR is that Twitter is still growing.TC:Slowly, though.TB:True, but we had enough information [to cull from Twitter as of] two years ago. Im not saying I dont want it to grow; I want nothing more than for it to continue to flourish. But its just getting bigger and better. So for us, its been adequate for a while to serve a real-time sensor network.I also think its [woes] are overblown.TC: Youve raised quite a bit of money, most notably $130 million about a year ago, led by Fidelity, which seems like good news bad news. You get this blue-chip investor, [but]people realize, many months later, that it has to [report] the value of itsilliquid investments [including marking]down your company 35 percent.TB: Then they marked it up.TC:How much?TB:A few percent, but the point is it will go up; it will go down.TC:Still, it must complicate your life, including [managing] employees who must feel more nervous. Did you have any idea when you signed the term sheet that [what happened in November] was a possibility? TB: Quite honestly, I didnt know when I signed the term sheet, but if I had to do it again, Id pick Fidelity again. I think the investor who led our investment has been tremendously [valuable], and [Fidelity is]a very long-sighted investor.Ironically, because they have to disclose short-term valuation, it leads people to believe they might be a short-term-oriented investor, but theyre extremely long term. They want to support you not only until the IPO but after the IPO.For us, what Ive focused on more than anything is not to be distracted by the marketplace. Its cyclical, [and] like any publicly traded company, it will be a journey over the years. The interesting thing is theres no marketplace for the valuation. Were not raising. No one is selling. We have a tremendous amount of money. We dont need to raise any more capital for years. So in some regards, it doesnt impact anything, other than the fact that theres a valuation thats publicly displayed.TC: I guess thats what youre telling your employees, as well?TB: They arent concerned. It takes some messaging. This is a market where no one is going to sell and no one is going to buy. [We tell them] Lets build a business and it will be five times [its value today]. We can increase sales, we can drive innovation, we can drive revenue. Those are the things that are in our control.And there are models that, we have no idea what they are based on, that value stocks based on public market comps that, we dont know who they are.TC:I think the SEC is interested in that, too, actually.TB:Its important for companies not to be distracted by it. Theres no impact to it other than that somebody knows.