Editors note:Levi King is the CEO and co-founder of Crediteraand was previously president and co-founder of Lendio.First we went online to learn. Then we naturally started buying stuff. Smart retailers learned to target us based on our behavior. We searched and they reacted through pay-per-clickand display. Then folks like Amazon used purchase history data to get smart aboutpredictingwhat else wed buy (based primarily on others purchase data, not our own).Amazon associated their suggestions with other people also bought. Thats less creepy than, We know everything about you, and dammit, we know what youre buying next.Amazon and eBay had to become unicorns before they had enough customer data to pull off predictive targeting. Now, companies like Facebook, LinkedIn, Credit Karma and Square are getting in the data game, too, using a core offer, where meaningful, kick-ass data is inherent to create sticky user bases.But do customers trust them to use that data to the customers benefit? Creepy factor eliminated? It depends. Customers expect Credit Karma to serve up better offersbecause that was the founding expectation of the relationship. But with Facebook, that was not and is not the case. Facebook has a great model for built-in data, but will always struggle with customer trust.The key differentiation of these data-first models is transparency and founding customer expectation. Consider these examples:The incumbents have to be extremely careful not to be creepy. For example, companies like Intuit and First Data have realized they are sitting on a trove of valuable data, inherent to their core business, but how do they use that data to create offers without making you feel like theyre invading your privacy?Ive used QuickBooks in multiple businesses since 2000 and I sure as hell havent ever considered myself to have a relationship with Intuit. It would be bothersome if I found out they were using my data for anything because I imagine them to be a software provider, with the data being solely mine, not theirs. The same is true with my merchant processor. I imagine them to be a tiny bit friendlier than a credit bureau, which feels like a natural adversary, not advocate, and certainly not a company with my best interests in mind.Ultimately, I see five unicorn categories involving heavy data:Many data science companies (No. 2) will become unicorns, but theyll always be creepy as hell to individuals and small businesses. Who wants some faceless company modeling them and selling it to the highest bidder? That didnt bother us with reactive targeting like ads showing up after Google searches because it seemed helpful and not creepy (albeit annoying sometimes). Plus we could see it. Most new data science companies operate outside the view of the subject.What about modernized credit repositories? Intuits Mint.com and Credit Karma could be the first examples if they make a successful transition from No. 3 to No. 5. I believe many of the data-first companies will become permission-based repositories of data.Credit Karma took a big step toward becoming a repository versus just a data-first service company when it added financial account data. Now a consumer could trust them with their credit data and personal checking account data. Thats a lot of trust being extended to Credit Karma, and earning that trust wasnt easy.The future of commerce marketing is permission-based and transparent. They will become the master brokers of B2C and B2B commerce. And these new super unicorns will have one thing in common  they will emerge from fintech.Just as companies like Amazon have been successful in diverting people from going to Google to search, data repository businesses will eventually divert people from going to Amazon or Google. They are the furthest up the activity stream, where the earliest intention or reaction data is born, and its not creepy if its an expectation of the relationship (and transparent).In 10 years consumers and small businesses will place and control all their data in a repository with the expectation that the repository will make recommendations in the best interest of the customer, with full transparency, and the predictive/reactive nature of the data will yield the most accurate results, hence the best customer experience. The repository will hold credit + banking + transactional + social data (at least).The incumbent unicorns will continue to bolt on small to medium-sized opportunities built on the natural data generated by their core businesses (e.g. Amazon Financing, QuickBooks Financing). Their limitation will be the lack of global data view of the customer, as well as customer trust. PayPal financing risk underwriting is based on inherent PayPal data, but there isnt a good value proposition to get the user to connect the rest of their data (creepy factor), so the narrow data view leads to a narrow, limited product offering.Lots of medium-sized opportunities will come through successful partnerships with the data-first service providers  like financing companies partnering with Credit Karma. Who would you rather be? Credit Karma with a recurring relationship of trust built on data and transparency, or the transactional service provider begging to get bolted onto Credit Karmas 33 million-plus customer base? Who calls the shots in that scenario?In a future post, Ill address what permission-based data models do to ancillary product/services customer acquisition costs, removal of acquisition friction, and no more relationship underwriting turn downs. The efficiency savings will be to the benefit of the user and kill middlemen.