Dating service Zoosk has laid off 15 percent of its employees this week, sources told TechCrunch, and the company now confirms. According to a spokesperson, the move was made as part of a larger effort to lower expenses in many areas. News of thelayoffsfollows theexit ofZoosks founders from their leadership roles last month, and confirmation that the company was indefinitely delayingits IPO plans.Theheadcountmentioned on ZoosksSEC filing referenced 168 employees, but figures cited in 2014 saw that number had grown to 174. (Zoosk has yet to provide us with itscurrent headcount, though weve asked.)In April 2014, Zoosk filed plans with the SEC for its $100 million initial public offering. The company, backed byCanaan Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners and ATA Ventures, at the time was seeinga net loss of $2.6 million in 2013 on revenues of $178 million. In addition, the filing revealed that the company was spending a lot on marketing and saw Tinder as a real threat to its business.Data provided to us from analytics platform 7Park showed just how credible the Tinder threat was (and still is):Zoosk claims to have 29 million members, and competes with sites like eHarmony and Match.com. It has a significant presence on mobile, but Tinder has been running away with much of the market there, as you can see. Most of Zoosksrevenue comes from subscription fees, which made up 86 percent of its business in 2014. Zoosk has raised $60 million since its 2007 founding.This pastfall, Bloomberg reportedthat Zoosk had decided tohold back on its IPO plans, deciding instead to watch market conditions and possibly delay itsIPO until 2015.And just last month, more hintsof troubles at the company emerged when Zoosks co-foundersShayan Zadeh and Alex Mehr pulled back from their day-to-day involvement, becoming members of the board instead. CFO Kelly Steckelberg then took over as Zoosk CEO, as the company continued to reassess its IPO plans.At the time, Steckelberg confirmed that conditions were still not right for the company to proceed with its offering.Since the time we filed, the market condition around comparables that would be used to help value our company, like Angies List and Care.com, have not performed well, she told TechCrunch. While the overall market might seem receptive to a public offering, subscription businesses have suffered.The companys full statement regarding this weeks layoffs is below:In an effort to speed Zoosks path to becoming a self-sustaining, profitable company, weve lowered our expenses in many areas. We also had to make the difficult decision to reduce our headcount by 15%. We respect and support our Zoosk colleagues who were affected by this reduction.