Silicon Valley and the wider world of technology are mourning the very sudden death of Dave Goldberg, a long time entrepreneur and investor,CEO of SurveyMonkey, husband of Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, father and friend to many. The news was made public earlier today in a Facebook post from his brother Robert.Its with incredible shock and sadness that Im letting our friends and family know that my amazing brother, Dave Goldberg, beloved husband of Sheryl Sandberg, father of two wonderful children, and son of Paula Goldberg, passed away suddenly last night, he wrote. In this time of sorrow, we mourn his passing and remember what an amazing husband, father, brother, son and friend he was.His brother addedthat in lieu of donations, Sheryl and the couples childrenrequest that those who wouldlike to share memories or pictures of Dave, to do so on Daves Facebook page. Itsfilling up quickly with very touchingthoughts and pictures, a testament to the person Davewas.Dave had a large presence in the tech industry, in part because he wore so many hats  and wore them well.As a founder himself,he had a very early and significantrole to play in the digital music industry, by way of Launch Media, a music content service that was eventually acquired by Yahoo.Then, as the executive leading Yahoos music business, he built what was (at the time) the worlds most used online music platform.He was an active investor in other startups and by many accounts was sought out for his wiseadvice by many.AtSurveyMonkey, Goldberg was leading the company into new territory, not just geographically but also strategically.On the heels of a $250 million round of funding, he wasworking on products that would take SurveyMonkeybeyondthe basic idea of collecting data through online surveys, andinto a particularly interesting and timely area of enterprise bigdata. New productslike Benchmarks help companies better analyze the material they picked up in their surveys, for example, by extracting actionable sentiments from that raw information.I met Daveonly recently, in 2013, when he passed through Londonin the lead-up toSurveyMonkey openingan office in the city. Certainly I didnt know himas well as some of the others who have written about his passing (in addition to the post from his brother, there are two great posts at Fortune and Re/code).I thought Dave was instantly personable, someone whoput you at ease when he talked withyou. Ifelt like you could ask about many things  SurveyMonkey, the future of big data, his opinion about another company, or London real estate prices. Whatever it was, the answers were worth hearing and interesting.Death is never easy, and boy is it sad when it comes too soon. (Is there a right time? I dont know.) Very deepest condolences from us at TechCrunch to Dave Goldbergs family.