When Kleiner Perkins head legal counsel Lynne Hermle pulled up a seating chart from the firms December 2011 offsite on the courts projector during her cross examination of Ellen Pao yesterday, the courtroom remained respectfully silent.But there was a collective groan in the online backchannel of reporters who have been covering the Pao Vs. Kleiner Perkins trial in San Franciscos Superior Court for the past two and a half weeks.The seating chart has become a bit of an inside joke among the courtroom press corps, as a symbol of how the details of even the most salacious lawsuit can become almost absurdly mundane after theyve been discussed for what seems like the umpteenth time.The Kleiner Perkins 2011 offsite seating chart is back everyone. IT IS BACK. Nellie Bowles (@NellieBowles) March 11, 2015oh hai, 2011 off-site seating chart.
#ellenpao v #kleinerperkins Davey Alba (@daveyalba) March 11, 2015Oh my god they just put up the seating chart slide again somebody help Nellie Bowles (@NellieBowles) March 6, 2015Lawyers in the Kleiner harassment trial keep showing seating charts from an offsite meeting. Which made me think who has seating charts? Bryan Beal (@bryanrbeal) March 12, 2015The unique trouble with this case is it seems like the more that such details are pored over, the more obscure the truth seems to be.Ellen Paos legal complaint is punctuated with eyebrow-raising anecdotes that illustrate her claims of gender discrimination and retaliation: Wine-fueled conversations about porn stars and the Playboy Mansion on a private jet, exclusive male-only dinners at Vice President Al Gores luxury condo, come-ons from an older married senior partner, an offsite in which female partners were seated in the back row while their male peers sat up front.These stories packed a punch when they were first revealed in the cases first legal documents three years ago. They attracted intense interest once again when the trial got underway nearly three weeks ago.But over the course of the past few weeks, the jury has heard varied accounts of each of these stories with each new witness who takes the stand. And in turn, the initial black and white nature of many of these anecdotes has blended into a more muddy shade of gray. A few examples:Hearing the narrative of the case described by Pao in her own words earlier this week was riveting and convincing. But after several days of Paos cross-examination by Hermle, an easy and clear conclusion has still not emerged just yet. Maybe it never will. After all, if it were easy to come to an agreement on what happened here, this case might have been settled long ago.In the end, the jury will have to sift through the nuances and decide whats right, and theyve got a remarkably difficult road ahead  a road that will surely include a few more looks at that damn seating chart.