After being incubated in a government lab for seven years, Descartes Labs  a deep-learning imageanalysis startup has raised $3.3 million of its own funding and spunoff as a private company.Descartes Labs is focused on taking satellite imagery, turning it into something coherent and analyzing it for useful data. Descartes Labs formally spun out of Los Alamos National Lab in August last year, but now that the company has attracted investor interest, it has a chance to more quicklyspinup its operations.That includes hiring people  who are based in San Francisco and Los Alamos as well as computational power.This isnt typical image recognition. Were doing physics on this, not looking for dogs and Coke cans, Descartes Labs CEO Mark Johnsonsaid. It turns out remote sensing and astrophysicshave a lot in common. If I take a lot of pictures in the sky, the sensors need calibrated, and I need to stitch those pictures together, and I need to do massive analysis. Well, if you turnthat telescope around toward the Earth, you get a similar set of problems.The company is starting with tracking agriculture around the globe. In the U.S., agricultural data is well documented, but internationally it turns out there is very little well-reported information  though, to be sure, the data is there in the satellite imagery. In that sense, it goes from being a bureaucraticproblemto a big-data problem that Descartes Labs can attack with machine learning.The public data that comes down from those satellites also isnt just in the visible spectrum  its in other bands like infrared, which is particularly useful when tracking crops.For a problem as hefty as what Descartes Labs is trying to solve, you might expect the company to have to pay a lot for powerful computers that can handle those calculations. But the difference in 2015 is the insanely powerful computational processing that previously was only available for massive government projects is available through services like Amazon AWS and Google Cloud Compute Engine. And startups like Descartes Labs can buy it in lieu of building or buying massive supercomputers  on the cheap.Part of that is due to the efficiency of the machine learning code, and thats thanks to the expertise of his team  which also includes Mike Warren, a scientist at Los Alamos that ran a trillion-particle simulation of the universe. The rest of the team is staffed with scientists and cosmologists working on the hard science behind image recognition and machine learning.Its a good start for building a business in the near future as well. Businesses interested in that agricultural data  commodities traders, for example  have a limited amount of data that they can extrapolate into estimates of worldwide agricultural activity. Getting a better handle on that certainly is more valuable than making ballpark estimates on what sorts of food is being grown, imported and exported.The implications of the technology certainly go beyond that, but the company is starting off there because there isnt really anything available on that scale. Johnson said the $3.3 million is just enough to get a product out the door and have a few failures along the way and course correct, asmoststartups inevitably do.When you invest in a very early stage, part of the opportunity and challenge is trying to figure out the addressable market, said Venky Harinarayan, an investor in the company and a founder of Kosmix  which was acquired and turned into Walmart Labs. We dont want large markets, we want markets growing quickly. If theyre large its hard for us to attack. Large markets require a lot of capital and a lot of investment  things startups dont have. Markets growing quickly are easier for a startupto go after.Descartes Labswas incubated in Los Alamos National Lab for seven years before spinning out. But spinning a company out of a government-funded laboratory isnt necessarily an easy feat. Theres plenty of negotiations that can drag on, and sometimes, the people running those startups are used to being well-fundedand dont know how to run a startup,Eric Chin at Crosslink Capital  an investor in Descartes Labs  said.Descartes Labsis led by Johnson, formerly the CEO of Zite  which sold to CNN, and then subsequently to Flipboard  and a longtime product head. In fact, many of the investors in the company seemed to have known Johnson for abouta decade, following his career from the very beginning as a product manager.I met him early in his career when we meetpeoplewith the raw material [to become great],someone with the DNAor makings of asuper star, we track them, we log them, we follow them, Chin said. He is and was on our [radar]. Id message him every couple months, hows it going at CNN? hows it going at Zite? Hes a good listener, he takes criticism well, but he also has conviction and he has confidence.Beyond agriculture, the imagery available  now and as it continues to pour in  has much broader implications than crops. With both of Johnsons homes  New Mexico most recently, and California before that  stricken by drought, he was quick to rattle off a number of applications that could help those states manage a crisis like the drought and beyond that.Weve begun to look at snowpack in California, water features  just looking at how things change over time, we discover amazing stuff, he said. As we poke around to more and more crops and more and more areas, were gonna discover surprising things. Its not about how much corn is being grown, its whether thats sustainable in the long term. A lot of wheat is in the OgallalaAquifer, which took hundredsof years to fill, and if we arent careful will be drained in the near future. Inthe short term, its about whats being grown today, but in the long term, its about how we are affectingtheplanet and how we can make sure we can still feed ourselves in 10, 20, 100years, so we arentdoomed.