Call it the Pandora effect? The problems of the streaming music model? The crush of competition from Apple Music? Whatever the root cause,Deezerhas had to face the music on its plans for an IPO: Paris-based music streaming companyhas announced that it willpostponing its public listing indefinitely due to market conditions.Deezer had planned to raise $343 million (300 million) in a public offering onthe French stock exchange at the end of this month to expand itscustomer base through marketing, promotions of its free service, and strategic partnerships. Now the short statement issued by the companysays it plans to review its fundraising options.The company also noted that its not against the wall financially: Deezer is well funded and well positioned as it continues to pursue its growth strategy, the company added in itsstatement.Deezer had originally planned to create8,241,758 new shares at a valuebetween36.40 and 49.24 per share. Itsvaluation after the new capital raise would have beenbetween884 million and1.088 billion($1 billion to $1.24 billion).Pandorasloss of nearly $86 million in Q3 could not have helped Deezers case much with investors. The U.S. companys shortfall was viewedas a consequence of the difficultyofcompeting against a new wave of music services, from privately-held, large companies like Spotify, as well as new efforts from Apple in the form of Apple Musics radio offering and Googles YouTube-based product. The chairman also told the WSJ that Netflixs disappointing Q3 performance also did not helpmatters.But there may be enough issues at Deezer itself to give pause. Some highlight the essentially challengingeconomicsof streaming products: the bigger you grow the worse your margins because of licensing payouts to large labels.Deezer itselfmade142 million ($163 million) in revenue in2014, with a loss of27 million ($31 million) in the same period.Deezer, founded in 2007 in Paris, says it has 6.3 million customers across 180 countries, but only 1.5 million are paying customers withthe remaining 4.8 million bundle subscribers who pay a blended fee to partners such ascarriers, giving Deezer a much smaller cut in return.Deezer has so far not been subject to the same kind of public scrutiny as Pandora, and perhaps the company now sees that it would have been hard-pressed if it were.Deezerto date has raised nearly $150 million in private backing  a fraction of the $1 billion+ raised by its rival Spotify. Deezers investors include Warner Music owner Access Industries.