In the brave new enterprise world, organizations will be awash in big data, and its against this backdrop that Dell bought EMC this week for the astonishing sum of $67 billion.All of this data needs to be stored somewhere and thats where EMC comes in. Dell already has been sellingstorageof course. In fact, itbought EqualLogic in 2007 for $1.4 billion, which seemed like a tidy sum at the time.This deal is about getting much bigger, but at a cost  $40 billion in debt financing,according to the Wall Street Journal. Dell said it would finance the deal in part usingEMCs cash on-hand, and boldly predicted itcould pay off the restin 18 to 24 months after closing the deal, presumably believing thatsales from the combined entities could bringit back to financial equilibrium quickly. Thats optimistic to say the leastWith EMC, Dell could be going after all of the storage marbles, but it could take more than those combined sales to make this deal work. It could also involve getting rid of some of the pieces fromEMC that arent necessarily part of the core missionIf thats the case, it would seem that Dell has to make some decisions here. If this were a cut and dried acquisition, you could point to Dells core business and say anything that doesnt serve that core should be shed. The problem is figuring out the core business in this instance. Dell has its fingers in a lot of pies and some broad ambition in the enterprise.In theory, you could sayit keeps EMC storage, cloud and big data  and gets rid of everythingelse.Yet Michael Dell in a letter to EMC customersabout the deal wasnt giving anything away:I am excited to work with the EMC, VMware, Pivotal, VCE, Virtustream and RSA teams, and I am personally committed to the success of our new company, our partners and above all, to you, our customers.Its a nice sentiment, but it becomes a bit like a team trying to find ways to shed salary to get under the salary cap. Sometimes you have to let go of players you like to make the economics work.Using that as a metric, it makes it easier to start by selling off shares ofVMware and its $30 billion in market cap to help pay for this deal. Its entirely probablethat Dell would stillmaintain some stake in the virtualization giant, but its a good way to move that needle anderase a substantial pieceof the cost of this acquisition.It would very likely dump Documentum, Captiva and the rest of the content management division.It could say buh-bye to Virtustream, the cloud management company EMC bought just last May for $1.2 billion.It gets somewhattricky around security and archiving as these things are tangentially related to storage, but if its about paying for the deal, it could ditch RSA, the security company EMCbought in 2006 for $1.2 billion  and perhaps its data protection and archiving pieces too.One open question is what itwill it do with Pivotal Labs.EMC spun out Pivotal a couple of years ago with GE and VMware when it recognized it was getting big and slow and needed an independent piece to help drive some innovative thinking. Now that Pivotal is part of Dell, it could sell off the EMC share of it or keep it for its big data and cloud pieces  and a combined Dell/EMC could use some of that agility right about now.Fortunes Dan Primack looked at this from a bit of a different angle, speculating that Dell may shed its PC division and sell it to HP to raise some cash.Its truly a case of a billion here, a billion there and pretty soon youre talking real money. As it sells these pieces off, assuming thats the plan, it would presumably startto recoup some of its investment. At the same time of course, its not just sitting there  its making money.Its hard to know just how much value these pieces might have in the open market, especially when everyone knows its an extremelymotivated seller, but the fact is that Dell has to focus on something here, and it seems that storage is as good a place to make a stand as anywhere.The trouble with this approach, if this is Dells thinking, is the changing nature of the storage market. There are a number of players out there including Amazon Web Services, Pure Storage (which went public last week), DataGravity (which is run by Paula Long,who helped found EqualLogic) Nutanix and others nipping at the heels of traditional vendors like EMC, looking at creative ways to attack the growing storage problem.If its about data, EMC certainly is a formidable player, but is it the right player to propelDell in the enterprise datacenter market? Dell made an enormous bet that EMCis the right choice.Time will tell if it wasright. In the meantime, it hasto be planninga huge garage sale to help pay for thattrophy house it just bought.