A Santa Clara, California-based company called Diamond Foundry is this morningtaking the wraps off what its been creating over the last three years: the ability to produce diamonds. In Santa Clara.As the company explains it, it discovered a plasma that allows atoms to attach themselves to a thin slice of diamond thats been extracted the old-fashioned way, by being plucked from the earth. One by one, it says,atoms stack atop the diamonds crystal structure, growing layer by layer into a pure, cultured jewelry-grade diamond.We couldnt catch CEO Martin Roscheisen on the phone yesterday to ask what, precisely, jewelry-grade diamonds means. Were guessing if theywere colorless and had what gemologists refer to as excellent clarity, Diamond Foundry would say so in its marketing materials. (It does not.)Either way, thegemsseem to be good enough for a list of prominent investors whove plugged some of their capital into the company. Diamond Foundrysbackers includeentrepreneurs Mark and Alison Pincus; serial entrepreneur Ev Williams; early Facebook COO Owen Van Natta;and actor Leonardo DiCaprio, who famously played a mercenary gem smuggler in the 2006 film Blood Diamond and now says in a statement that hes proud toinvest in theendeavor.DiCaprio sayshes drawn toDiamond Foundrys aim of reducing the human and environmental toll of the diamond industry by sustainably culturing diamonds without the destructive use of mining.Indeed,thetraditional diamond mining industry has long been plagued byreports ofhuman rights abuses, includingthe forced labor of children in diamond fields. And there are environmental consequences thatresult from the removal and logging of tons of earth in pursuit of diamonds.But investorsmay also like that Roscheisen is aseasoned CEO, having led the solar power tech company Nanosolar for roughly eight years previously. (It was wound down in 2013, after raising roughly $450 million in capital over its 11-year life.)Diamond Foundryalso touts a couple of other interesting twists. Itsusing solar power credit to reduce its carbon footprint to zero, for one thing. Its alsolaunching an online marketplace that features nearly 200, mostly independent, jewelry designers, who receive 100 percent of the money customers pay for the jewelry (minus the value of the diamonds).Its the only source of the companys revenue right now.Diamond Foundryhas some competition in the nascent synthetic diamond space, including its in own backyard. A 10-year-old, San Francisco-based company called Brilliant Earthnowsells both responsibly sourced diamonds, as well as lab-grown diamonds. Elsewhere,a Florida-based company called Pure Grown Diamonds has alsobegun selling what it says are high-quality, lab-created diamonds, as hasPortland, Oregon-based Mia Donna.Brilliant Earth andMia Donna use high-pressure high-temperature techniquesthat have been around for a while.Meanwhile, Pure Grown Diamonds process sounds much like that of Diamond Foundry. You can see its CEO, Lisa Bissell, describing it here.Pure Grown Diamond is selling its diamonds for roughly 30 percent what traditionally mined diamonds cost customers. Diamond Foundry says it plans to chargethe same if not more than market rate.