In late 2014, I finally took the plunge and cut the cord with cable TV, reducing my monthly bill from a bigTV, phone and internet bundle to onewhich now only includes broadband. My TV subscription, meanwhile, includes just a handful of services: Netflix, Hulu Plus and Amazon Prime Instant Video.That latter item is actually included with the annual subscription to Amazon Prime, so it doesnt feel like its an entirely new expense,to be honest. Id pay for it anyway because I love Primes free, two-day shipping. Streaming video is just icing on the cake.Ive been documenting my cord-cuttingjourney here on TechCrunch, so those of you contemplating make a similar move can learn from my experiences (and my mistakes!), while I can also learn from my fellow cord cutters about how theyve been handling their own transitions.Note: This is part 5 of an ongoing series of articles about cord-cutting in 2015. You can readPart 1,Part 2,Part 3and Part 4here.In part two of this series, I took a look at one of the options for cord cutters  an over-the-air DVR called Tablowhich competes with offerings from TiVo, Simple.TV, and others, and utilizes your own USB hard drive to store your shows, giving you more flexibility in storage capacity.These sorts of DVRs are handy for those making the switch from cable or satellite TV subscriptions to antennas, as they allow you to access and record streams from those free, over-the-air broadcasts. While I liked Tablos diminutive size and I appreciated the ability to add on more storage as need be, having to buy a standalone USB hard drive to even get started was a bit of a downsidein my book. I would have liked the option to buy the device with some amount of storage included right out of the box (especially given the price point of ~$200), andthen increase the storage if needed.In addition, while the mobile interface for interacting with Tablo was easy enough to use, I found that it lagged in performing certain tasks, like downloading updates to the guide, for example.But worst of all was when Tablos Roku app ending up failingon Oscar night  one of the few times ayearI actually want to watch live TV. One of the problems cord cutters face, as you know, is not having the ability to watch special events live unless they invest in an antenna. And therewasnt a way to stream the Oscars live on demand (though Hulu later rounded up some clips).When I initially accessed the Live TV section in TablosRoku app, I was happy to find I could tune to the channel and watch the action as it occurred.But then thestream oddly cut out on me, and no matter what I did, I couldnt get the live program to return. Instead, it kept replaying the red carpet moment I had just seen and I hadnt even asked Tablos software to record the program! It was very buggy.In any event, the problem was not with my antenna or my signal, as you may be thinking. I pulled the antenna cordout of Tablo, plugged it directly into my TV, and was then able to watch the live event yet again. Go figure.The experience, however, left me feeling a little uncomfortable with Tablos stability, so instead I turned to a company who has a longer history in the DVR space: TiVo.A number of readers have emailed to recommend TiVo DVRs.Ive now tried theTiVo Roamio OTA DVR, the companys option for cord cutters specifically. For $49.99, this device offers you 500 GB of storage space (up to 75 hours of HD programming) for recording TV from your antenna. This is basically the same thing as the TiVo Roamio, but it lacks a cable cardslot. Instead, the under 4-pound box offersEthernet and Wi-Fi connectivity, plus USB, coax, optical and analog audio out.The TiVo was easy to hook up  perhaps even more so than the Tablo, because you dont have to mess around with an additional hard drive. Instead, you just plug in your antenna and connect TiVoto your TV via anHDMI cable. The remaining setup, which includesletting TiVo scan yourchannels, is notcomplicated either, as the devicestepsyou through the process with anonscreen guide.Once complete, youre taken to the TiVo Central screen which you can also access at any time by pressing the TiVo button on your remote.For those of you familiar with TiVos interface, youll note that the OTA DVR offers a nearly identical feature set when it comes to the way you search and navigate through its content selections.The box is capable ofrecording up to four shows simultaneously, which is actually better than the Verizon DVR I recently ditched. Which networks you can access will depend on your location and the signal strength of your antenna, among other things, but most users can at least access the major networkslike ABC, CBS, NBS, and PBS over-the-air using an antenna.There are a few features that make the TiVo DVR useful when it comes to content discovery. These are worth noting because, as a cord cutter, you sometimes lose touch with whats on TV, asyou tend to spend more time streaming from services like Netflix rather thanchannel surfing and serendipitously happening upon new shows.With TiVos Collections feature under the Browse TV & Movies heading, the DVR offers a number of editorial selections which are based on current events or categories. That way, you wont miss out on things like the Academy Awards or the ever-popular Shark Week, for example. However, in this same area, theresa New & Notable subsection, too,which also seems to feature current programming collections. For instance, this week, theres a Spring Break section with a plethora of high school movies, like Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Revenge of the Nerds.I feel like these two sections could just be combined for a more simplified experience. And theBox Sets section should just be relocated under the Movies area, as well.These are minor quibbles, really, but its this sort of interface clutter that makes me feel that the TiVo Roamio OTA DVR is a closer relative to the cable company DVR than it is to a more modern set-top box like the (DVR-less, but still quite awesome) Roku.I mean, just look at the remotes for these things! Roku has under a dozenbuttons. TiVos has nearly 40. Talk about clutter!(And can I also complain about the fact that TiVos database of TV codes didnt include the one that could control my Samsung TV? Or thatthe remote cant just learn the code either, as some others can?)Another tool for finding things to watch on the TiVo OTA DVR is theWhat to Watch Now dashboard will show you recommendations of programs airing now or soon to air. This section breaks down its recommendations by Popular TV, Movies, Sports, and Kids. I found this was an easier way to quickly tune to a given channel rather than scrolling through a big TV guide, like I used to on Verizons DVR.TiVos OTA DVR also smartly combines the world of over-the-air programming and online services like Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Hulu Plus and more, in a couple of key places. When searching for a program, for example, the guide will display both over-the-air and streaming services in its search results.And with TiVos OnePass recording option, which organizes your shows by season, if a given show cant be recorded via your antenna, it will display the streaming services you can use to view the program instead.You can also tap into additional content with TiVos Explore feature, which is somewhat like Amazons X-Ray for Movies & TV, as it lets you learn more about your favorite show or actor. You can even do a search for that show on YouTube.And to complement its service, TiVo OTA DVR owners can manage their recordings from an accompanying mobile app, or use their mobile device as the remote. If you choose to pay for TiVo Stream, the app will also allow you to watch your shows on mobile when youre outside the home. (I have not tested this myself, I should note.)Overall, the TiVo Roamio OTA DVR is a decent enough option for cord cutters who rely heavily on their antennas, and only somewhat on streaming services, in order to access TV programming and movies. If youre worrying about losing the luxury of being able to record favorite shows when you ditch your pay TV subscription, losing access to live sports, or if you just cant stomach paying for Hulu Plus and then having to watch its ads, TiVo can fill that void.However, theres one thing about the TiVo Roamio OTA DVR that makes the device a deal breaker for me, and thats its monthly subscription fee. TiVo charges $14.99 per month (with a minimum one-year commitment required) for access to its feature set, including its two-week programming guide, universal search, app lineup, mobile access, recommendations, and more. The service fee also covers TVs across the home with the optional purchase of moreTiVo Minis. And the fee is not an optional upgrade.Granted, this is generally less than what most people pay for their cable or satellite TV subscriptions, but it seems to run in counter tolarger cord cutting trend. For many, cord cutting is about choosing not to pay for something you can get for free: television.And do you know what you can buy instead with an extra $14.99/month? HBO NOW, the networks new over-the-top option for cord cutters, arriving first on Apple devices. Or you could almost buy both a Netflix ($8.99/mo) and Hulu Plus ($7.99/mo) subscription combined!TiVo tells us that while the TiVo Roamio DVR doesnt include the option to buy a lifetime subscription, the company is soon going to offer Annual Pricing for OTA. At $149 per year, that will work out to $12.50 per month. Thats better, but committed TiVo owners would generally argue that if youre going to invest in this kind of device, the lifetime subscription is how to extract the best value.As industry analyst Horace Dediusmartly pointed out this week, cable TVs value to consumers has declined over the years. We were once promised better picture quality, more channels, and fewer or no commercials. But today, we have access to digital over-the-air signals and our cable channels are overrun with ads. And while there are hundreds of channels to choose from, its more than anyone can absorb, he says, and the channels increasingly became less differentiated from each other over time.As were freeing up those additional dollars by cutting ties with cable, were able to afford to pay for more over-the-top services that provide better experiences  including, in many cases, a return to commercial-free programming, likeon Amazon and Netflix.But the question is, where do we want to spend that money we saved by cutting the cord with cable? There are a growing number of streaming services available to choose from today, including not only the big three, but also things likeCBSs All Access package, a new kids service called Noggin from Nickelodeon, HBOs over-the-top option HBO NOW, Sling TV, and just this week, PlayStations Vue.TiVo is essentially competing for those same saved cable TV dollars, but in thecase of its OTA DVR, is only offering the software interface for searching, accessing andrecording over-the-air (you know, free) streams. Its not the content business itself.I could personally see paying for TiVos subscription if it cost maybe about a third of what it is today  that is, if I watched a lot of broadcast TV, live sports, or just couldnt stand Hulus commercials. However, over half of what I watch are older shows, or those with many seasons already under their belt, which Im just now getting around to viewing. After all, televisions renaissance, which came about due to anothertechnology disruption, means theres plenty to watchwithout being overly dependent on live programming.You may have a different set of needs, of course, and youll have to weigh TiVos advantages and disadvantages for yourself.Butfor $7.99 per month for Hulu Plus, I can access most of the current network programming Id otherwise miss  I dont need TiVos OTA DVR for that. Meanwhile, on the occasion I want to watch a live show, an antenna plugged into the TV is all Ineed.Email me your cord-cutting story, or your Netflix recommendations: sarahp@techcrunch.com