Dick Costolo stepped down as Twitters CEO last week, and since then theories about who will lead Twitter next have flown throughout the Internet.Costolo, on stage at the Bloomberg Tech conference, still didnt have a good answer about who would be running Twitter next  and emphasized that there is an active search for a new CEO.He announced he would be stepping down as CEO ofTwitter last week as the company began a new CEO search, with co-founder Jack Dorsey becoming the interim CEO. Costolo will remain on the board of directors.In a question about skepticism about the search  about whether its a real search or not  Dick responded by sayingthe board waslegitimately doing a search, theres a specific search committee on the board, also involvingtwo of our biggest shareholders.Still, there have been murmurs that some are expecting Jack Dorsey, the co-founder and interim CEO, could take the role full-time. He basically built the product, drove the redesigns, and while he is the CEO at Square hes actively involved in Twitters activities as a board member. When asked about whether Dorsey could be the next CEO, Costolo  on point while on stage as usual  did not have a direct yes or no to the question.Jack is obviously the inventor and co-founder, just as important and more importantly he has this fluency in the way he thinks about the product and its potential thats almost remarkable, he said. We have dinner every Tuesdaynight where we think about the product.Jack has said this himself, this is about stepping into this role and letting the board do its work, and provide the space and time to do its work. He has this clarity of thinking about the product that doesnt bring with it this conceptual baggage.So, not really a yes or a no, but thats quite an endorsement for Dorseys abilities as a product visionary for Twitter.Costolo said he started the process around the end of last year. It was at the June shareholder meeting decided how to go about executing the CEO search, which the board decided to go about publicly.Two other names that have been thrown out as potential candidates are CFO Anthony Noto and head of revenue Adam Bain. Costolo, too, had pleasant things to say about them, and Noto in particular said he did not bring in to be an accountant. Bain, meanwhile, was described as one of the most energetic people he had met  for example, he stayed up all night planning a meeting while Costolo rested at an event in Chicago.Ive got that leadership across the board, he said. One of the reasons that now would be ok to do this is were so confident in the team. Kevin [Weil] is at product, there are 6 or so people who have been at Twitter longer than me, hes one. Alex Roetter is leading up engineering.The CEO has to have the leeway to do what they need to do. That strategy is in place, the team is in place, and until further notice were gonna continue down that path.Over and over, he brought up Periscope as one of Twitters big success stories. Twitter acquired Periscope in March this yearand it has quickly become one of its fastest-growing assets.The thing thats important as CEO, is to put the right system together, he said.You develop a cohesive hole and you work backwards.Theres this comic book notion of what [a good CEO is] like, he said. The reality is you have to be yourself, there are many ways to be successful. great leaders are both resilient and courageous, particularly in the face of external, why are you doing this, why are you doing that, and theyre self-aware.Costolo, like many CEOs on the way out, said he would be taking some time off  though, standup comedy is probably not in the future: I dont think it would be a smart move to return to standup comedy.I can be heckled in real-time in the world.