More interesting developments for Digg, the Internet curation site founded way back in 2004 that was acquired and relaunched by Betaworks in 2012. The site has announced a Series A of $4 million, and it has named its COO Gary Liu as newCEO, effective immediately.This is essentiallyDiggs second Series A  the company in its previously independent state had raised over $45 million, including a $2.8 million Series A. This is also the latest chapter for a company that wasdismantled in 2012, with the brand, domain, code, traffic and datagoing to Betaworks, staff going to the Washington Post, and patents going to LinkedIn.Andrew McLaughlin, the Betaworks partnerwho had been acting as CEO since the relaunch in 2012,will now be executive chairman.This latestfunding comes from DG Incubation, the investment subsidiary of Digital Garage, which also investsin Betaworksand will be used topower Diggs accelerating growth in users and revenue, the expansion of community and network features, and new products for international markets.Digital Garage has been a prolific investor in startups, backing dozens since 2008, including biggies like Twitter and smaller bets like Wikia and backend services like Chartbeat.The aim of the funding  and it seems for Digg  is to dig into mobile content curation specifically. Digital Garage is excited to be investing in Digg. We believe that the market for effective curation, especially on mobile, is vast and growing, saidKaoru Hayashi, Group CEO at Digital Garage, in a statement. The Digg team has proven its ability to execute on that vision, and we look forward to helping them advance it even further.For Betaworks, this underscores how the self-styled startup studio thinks there is a lot of potential and life left in the Digg brand. The Digg team has done what many thought to be impossible; they have restored an iconic Internet brand with a strong voice, high quality products on web and mobile, and a loyal and growing user base, Betaworks John Borthwick in a statement. We are serious about Diggs full global potential, and because of Digital Garages formidable expertise, there was no better investment partner for the next stage of growth. Inaddition to producing original content, it also curates the wider web through Digg Reader and Digg Deeper.Digital Garage, in addition to startup incubation, also works on marketing and promotion, and in that sense backing a big brand has potential strategic angles to it. We are thrilled to be working with Digital Garage to continue building the best content discovery and conversation products on the Internet, Liu said in a statement. Were experiencing unprecedented growth in the volume and quality of online publishing, while also watching both creators and consumers struggle to cut through the increasing noise.Weve reached out to Digg and Borthwickfor more information and will update as we learn more.