While health-conscious nerds might like to play around with quantifying their activity and lifestyle for kicks, people with diabetes have no choice but to tracktheir blood sugar if they want to stay well. Its a key part of managing thischronic disease, which requires regular insulin shots to replace what the body cant produce.Vienna, Austria-based mySugr was founded back in 2012 (although the teamalso won a TC pitch off back in 2011)with a mission to make managing diabetessuck less, as co-founder Fredrik Debong puts it  one of two of the four co-founders himself livingwithtype 1 diabetes. Its doing this viabuilding digital products thattake the strain out of aggregating diabetes-related health data and simplify management ofthe chronic condition.Thus far, mySugr has amassed more than230,000 registered users of its diabetes management apps and web-based educational tools, which use gamification elements and daily goals, to help usersstay engaged and motivatedwith the grindof diabetes therapy compliance.Theyve also built an Optical Character Recognition app that allows userspull data fromexisting (non-connected) blood monitors into their smartphones where they can do more useful stuff with it.MySugr has gained FDA medical device certification for its diabetes logbook app  a process Debong says took some one and a half years, including the research involved  noting it was one of the first ten or 15 apps to ever be registered with the FDA. They have also secured medical insurance cover for the business. Now looking at the current development of the FDA and how they are approaching medical device apps and mobile apps it turns out we were right, so were happy to have that behind us already, he adds.The main demographic for its products at this point is35 to 50 year old diabetes sufferers, with the U.S. its single largest market. The products arealso available in Europe, Canada, Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong. MySugrsbusiness model isb2c, via direct subscriptions and freemium ad-supported versions of the software, but they are also licensing products to healthcare insurers.Our logbook application synchronizes blood glucose values with different hardware devices, blood sugar meters, very soon blood pressure measures,scales, everything like that. To really have something that totally aggregates your health data but also helps you to get value out of the data, saysco-founder Frank Westermann.Before we created mySugr there was a messy [management situation] for people with diabetes. Normally they write down their blood glucose values in a paper-based diary. Super boring, annoying and only a few people do it. What we do is we build a whole experience out of aggregating your data  we use gamification elements, so we get rewards points, you can make challenges in our application. We have a daily goal, which is to beat your diabetes monster So we really created an experience out of logging your health data. And that is what makes us totally different from all the other apps out there.Our approach is patient-focused, patient-centric. Frederik and I do have diabetes. We have halfof our company suffering from diabetes, so we exactly know the problems we have in our day to day lives and we try to solve these day to day problems, he adds.They have more products in the pipeline, but are keeping those under wraps for now. Today the team isannouncing a new seed funding raise  of $4.8 million from two new investors, Switzerland-based Roche Ventures and U.S.-based iSeed Ventures.Existing investor XLHealth, from Germany, also participated in the round. Total fundingraised to date is around $5.8 million.Whats the new cash injection for? Serious scale  as befits the teamsmissionary zeal to help more diabetes sufferers like themselves. Were going to beat fucking Nike, isDebongs concise summary (he notes the team knows of two people who have tattoos of themySugr product logo right now  so its chasingSwoosh quantities).If we can scale this to 5 million people or to 380 million then weve changed the philosophy of the earth.When it comes down to it, what we founded the company on was to make diabetes suck less. And that has since day one been an unspoken mantra, he adds. Change the philosophy of diabetes therapy. Diabetes therapy takes a lot of time, a lot of effort. And just letting go is so easy. So if we can flip that and change the attitude when it comes to therapy  thats actually the mission.Theres certainly growing momentum behind digital health. Justthis week Apple announced an initiative to turn iOS devices into a medical diagnostic research resource, called ResearchKit. The proliferation of powerful processing and sensing devices, coupled with the human preoccupation about personal wellness, makes fora potent combination  and a sizable business opportunity in the healthcare space.With connected devices gathering and providing access to more and more healthcare information the role of doctors will change to more of acoach, arguesDebong.In general what mobile health has the ability to do is to make decision-making for us patients much easier, he says. If we have the data at the tip of our fingers, thats great. Now, as you see in the development of healthcare worldwide we start to see a lack of doctors, a lack of time when it comes to how doctors treat patients. And by enabling validated products, such as ours, to be used in diabetes management or in other disease management programs it will be much more efficient how a doctor is able to service populations.M-health gets right now into the mass market. Thats a development thats definitely been fueled by Google and Apple opening up their systems, building platforms which is great, addsWestermann. Its very good for us.On the other hand ResearchKit from a technology standpoint is just a great tool. It will help a lot to understand disease data better. For example diabetes is a very, very data-driven disease. Its all about insulin units, carbohydrate grams, and blood glucose levels. And data is a big part of diabetes therapy. And its a big part of other diseases so its great to aggregate more data to better understand these diseases.