Dish Network finally offered some insight into the traction of its over-the-top streaming TV service, Sling TV, in its second-quarter earnings. The company reported for the first time that Sling TV had reached 169,000 subscribers by the end of March 2015 a figure that roughly falls in line with earlier reports of the company topping the 100,000 mark that same month. The company didnt provide detailson how many subscribers it had by end of June, though other estimates put the service at around 250,000.Dish said that its net pay-TV subscribers  a number which, also forthe first time, now includes Sling TV subscribers  fell by 81,000 in the second quarter despite the company adding 683,000 new subscribers during the April through June timeframe. Meanwhile, at the quarters close, Dish said it had 13.9 million pay TV subscribers, down from 14.05 million in the same period last year.The company did beat Wall Streets expectations by increasing its revenue and net income, with average revenue per users upto $87.91, up from $84.15 a year ago. ItsQ2 revenue wasup 4 percent to $3.83 billion, compared with $3.69 billion in the year-ago quarter. And net income rose 52 percent to$324 million. Its earnings per share were 70 cents, beating analysts estimates of 45 cents.But what these figuresmean is that even though the company is losing subscribers, Dishs remaining customers are paying more per month for their service. This is notable given thatthe Sling TVstreaming service is significantly cheaper at just $20 per month for the core bundle, with add-on packages that start at $5 per month. But how long will this trend continue to be the case, as more satellite TV subscribers cut the cord, or move to other services is still unclear.Dish lost 134,000 net satellite subscribers in Q1, and 81,000 net pay TV subscribers in Q2. Sling TV may be helping Dish retain some of its customers, but its just as likely that its subscriber numbers are coming from those who were never before a Dish customer.Sling TV, which launched in January, is being marketed to a new generation whose fed up with pay TV and its expensive, overstuffed bundles. To some extent, this may include cord cutters  like those leaving Dishs satellite TV service. but it also may have some appeal to the so-called cord-nevers  those who never subscribed to pay TV in the first place.For Sling TV to be competitive, and therefore for Dish to be successful in the long run, it wont only need to capture those abandoning their satellite subscriptions, but it will also need to appeal to this second group who didnt see theneed to ever pay for TV. Thats where Dish will face challenges, as the company already has competition from streaming service heavyweights like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu, as well as niche services, HBO, Showtime and even other pay TV providers like Comcast, which are launching their own over-the-top plays.In addition, on the satellite side of the business, competitor DirecTV merged with AT&T, and is providingbundled service. Dish does not offer that option.The company noted, though, that Sling TV customers are less expensive to acquire, because theres no customer hardware involved as with its satellite TV service. With Sling TV, users simply stream live TV to their PCs, mobile phones, tablets, or streaming TV players, like Roku.