
Scott Ferber is chairman and chief executive of the video technology services firm Videology, and the co-founder of Advertising.com. When cable TV subscriptions in the U.S. peaked in 2012 and97.6 million Americans paid to watch television delivered via cable it seemed the traditional media supply chain was stronger than ever. Since then, however, cable subscriptions have steadily declined each year.The usual culprits blamed for this decline are the streaming services, like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime, and HBO Go. A recent report from MoffettNathanson Researchfoundthat 81 percent of adults under 35 have a Netflix subscription. Additionally, millions of Americans are watching television from their smartphones or other handheld smart devices, which makes app-based services convenient choices.The story goes, Cord-cutters are canceling their cable services and going over-the-top, therefore its the demise of the television business as we know it.This premise is wrong. Heres why: The consumer has their own definition of TV.To start, we should clarify that consumers now perceive TV as content, not as content delivered through a linear hardware box in their living room. HBO, Netflix, Amazon, Hulu, Buzzfeed  consumers dont care aboutwhere content derives, they only care that its quality.While 1.2 million Americans have cut the cord (consumers ditching their cable bill for online streaming services) in the past four years, that number only accounts for about 1 percent of cable subscribers  hardly the mass exodus that marks the end of paid television.Its true that whilecable subscriptions are declining at an increasing rate, its not a big enough issue to deem it the end of paid TV. Craig Moffett, veteran senior analyst at MoffettNathanson, describes the pace of cord-cutting as drip, drip, drip, meaning its too miniscule to matter.Nonetheless, the fact that its happening still manages to get a lot of media attention. What the trend really shows, Moffett argues, is that rising streaming services dont equate to a loss of cable subscribers. Instead, the meteoric rise of streaming subscribers existsintandemwith existing cable subscribers.The growth of online streaming services has steadily increased year after year since 2011, and not by insignificant single-digit percentages. U.S. Netflix subscriptions nearlydoubled,from25 million in 2012 to 44.74 million by Q4 2015. Even Hulu has grown from 6 million users in 2014 to 9 million (as of August 2015), with37 percent of millennials reportedly subscribing to the service.Thats a lot of eyeballs, but combined, the two giants of streaming media are only about half the total of cable subscribers, even after the losses from 2012 onward. And thats the point; streaming services have not significantly subtracted from cable subscriptions. Theyve merely added to the market share.In 2012, roughly127.6 millionAmericans paid for television, or TV-like content:Compare that to the150+ million Americanspaying for television, or TV-like content, in 2016:If you add the54 million U.S. Amazon Prime members who have exclusive access to streaming Amazon Prime Video content  the number of paid media subscribers tops200 million  nearlydoublewhat it was just four years ago.To my previous point, I dont believe consumers have brand allegiance to a certain provider of content  they simply want to access content they love, as easily and affordably as possible.With that in mind, traditional cable and satellite companies, as well as traditional media companies, are evolving at a rapid pace. Consider these examples:HBO, Comcast, NBC and others have launched TV-everywhere capabilities, allowing viewing of TV content across devices:While these blurred lines have created a lot of chaos in the industry, as the dust settles, these changes are resulting in new opportunities for marketers.The shift to cross-screen consumption, as well as the rise of a new set of online competitors like Facebook and Google, has forced the hands of media companies, including broadcasters, cable companies and satellite providers to embrace solutions that begin to merge data, content and technology to remain competitive in todays media marketplace.NBCU, AT&T and FOX all recently announced programmatic TV offerings, which bring the technological ease of buying digital video to the traditional TV screen. With AT&Ts acquisition of DirecTV, the merged company now has more than 26 million households available for delivering ads programmatically in linear TV advertising.For advertisers, this is opening up a new world of more targeted advertising, which may include not just television in its traditional form, but also television viewed on computers, mobile devices and via apps on devices connected to the television set. Using data to connect usage across devices allows advertisers to reach unduplicated audiences to provide incremental reach in a world of fragmented viewership.Exactly how the future of media distribution and content will play out is still evolving, with new trends and technologies emerging every year. What we do know is that as of 2016, Americans interest in television and the number of them paying to watch content has never been higher  and its still on the rise.