Author Tom Wolfe once wrote a book about the American space program called The Right Stuff. Last week I wrote a piece called Technology is disrupting everything. I dont bring up Wolfes work to compare myself to him  that would be laughable  but because an astute reader named John G. Moore, Jr. left me a comment in that piece that got me thinking we are in fact disrupting lots of stuff, but mostly the wrong variety.Heres what Moorewrote:Not everything is being disrupting tho. Only the easy or non essential things are being disrupted. Cancer, bigotry, hunger, you know the hard stuffnot so much. Aint no college boys trying to solve those problems, no VCs funding the disruption of those things. The stuff that does not need to be disrupted is being disrupted at an alarming rate. Just call a taxi or drive yourself,lol. Do we really need self driving cars? Nope. We need to start disrupting the hard things, not the silly/dumb/non essential tasks/product/services/etc.To be honest Im not used to thoughtful comments. More typical is spam, self promotion or gleefully pointing out my spelling or grammar errors. This was the best of all because it got me thinking, and its hard to argue with his thesis  the guy is spot on.We are wasting our time, our money and our brainpower on solving non-problems while ignoring the real difficulties we face as a society.Maybe its time to devote ourselves to bigger issues, to commit to the right stuff and use technology to bring out the very best in us.Maybe we should stop glorifying developers who look for ways to eliminate humans from the equation and use our brain power to create the next generation of jobs.Maybe like President Obamas Cancer Moonshot we need to encourageour best and brightest to solvethese foundationalproblems around population, clean water, feeding the world and reducing human misery.Maybe we need more programs like Thorns Silicon Valley innovation lab devoted to using technology to fightchild sexual abuseor TechCrunchs own Mike Butcher bringing togetherexperts from UNICEF and local NGOsto find ways to use tech to ease the refugee crisis in Syria.Maybe we dont need another messaging app or a better way to get from point a to point b. Maybe our needs are more fundamental than that.Maybe its time we devoted at least a portionof the billions in venture capital being invested in those other things,toward making the world a better place, to using tech for good and disrupting the rightstuff for a change.