Haveyou ever regretted sending an email, and wished you could take it back? Or maybe youve worried about sending confidential information over email  especially after seeing the damage a large-scale email hack can cause, like the one that hitSony Pictureslast year? A new self-destructing email service called Dmail aims to eliminate these concerns with the introductionof tool that allows you to better control the messages that are sent over Gmail.With Dmail, you can revoke access to any email at any time, and, in a release arriving soon, youll be able to stop recipients from forwarding your message to others,too.The idea for the new service comes from theteam behind the social bookmarking service Delicious. A longtime web staple, Delicious was sold by its former owners, YouTube co-foundersChad Hurley and Steve Chen, to the tech investment and advisory firm Science, Inc., run by former MySpace President Mike Jones.Along with Delicious, Science investsa number ofgrowing startups, like FameBit and Hello Society, through itsScience Media Group arm, and incubates and invests in others like DogVacay, HomeHero, Dollar Shave Club and more.Of course, theability to revoke an email has been around for some time  but thoseearlier implementations leave a lot to be desired. For example, Microsoft Outlook users at a companythat uses Exchange Server can recall emails, but it doesnt work with addresses outside the organization. Meanwhile, Gmails own un-send feature  which recently graduated from Gmail Labs  lets you cancel a sent email by configuring the number of seconds after hitting Send that you can click onan Undo Send link to bring your message back to drafts.However, Gmails undo send option is limited to 30 seconds max. With Dmail, you can destroy a sent email at any time.The product works by way of a Google Chrome web browser extension, which only you, as the email sender, have to install.Once loaded, youll have a new option within the Gmail compose interface thatallows you to turn the Dmail service off and on using a toggle switch. When on, you can specify ahead of sending anemail if you want the email destroyed in an hour, a day, a week, or never. Even if you choose the never option, you can later go into your sent message and click a Revoke Email button to remove access to that email from all recipients.Whats clever about Dmail is that, unlike some other secure messaging products, recipients dont have to use the service themselves in order for it to work. If they dont have the extension installed, theyll instead receive an email that states: This secure message was sent using Dmail. To view this message, simply click the button below.Clicking the includedView Message buttonwill then redirect them to a web view where they can read your email.If, however, they do have the extension installed, they can read your message right within Gmail itself.In addition, after a sender revokes an email, recipients with the extension installed will see a message that reads: this message has been destroyed and is no longer available. Those without the extensioncan still go into the email and click on the View Message button, but theyll then see a similar Message Unavailable note on the resulting webview.Dmails are encrypted using a standard 256-bit encryption algorithm, the company says.When a user sends a Dmail, the bodyof that email is encrypted locally on the users machine, explains Eric Kuhn, who lead product on Dmail. An encrypted copy of that email is sent to a datastore controlled by Dmail. The recipient of the email is sent both the location of that datastore, as well as a key to view the decrypted message, he says.Neither Gmail nor Dmail servers ever receive both the decryption key and encrypted message. Only the recipient and sender can read the email legibly, Kuhn adds.The product, which was built by a seven-person subset of Deliciouss team, has been in development for a good part of the year, and has been in private testing, first internally withDelicious and then with Delicious users, overthe past few months.While it currently only works with Gmail, the long-term goal is to expand access to other platforms, including Google Apps. In addition, a Dmail iOS application will launch in August, and will be followed by an Android release. These apps will allow users to both compose and read Dmails right from their smartphone.Eventually, the team plans to makeDmail a freemium service, where some aspects will remain free for individuals while power users and businesses will pay for other features.One possible featurethat Delicious could charge for is the ability to expand the self-destructing functionality to documents.I love the idea of giving someone access to a PDF file or document and then be able to revoke viewing access, saysJones. In our business we see it all the time, he says, referring to Sciences position as startup backer. We might have a sensitive financial file or investor deck that we really just want to open once and then revoke the access, and theres no simple way to do it.Document control is already in development, and Jones says he expects the feature to launch before this winter.In the meantime, Gmail and Chrome users can try Dmail for themselves from here.