Twitters been playing around with polls for the past month or soright out in the open. Todays announcement shouldnt come as a surprise if you follow anyone who works for the company or runs in techs inner circles. Over the next few days, everyone will be able to pepper you with yes/no, two-option polls. Why only two options? Not sure, but its something thatll probably expand over time.Imnot a fan, but hey, what do I know. I just feel like it limits interaction, but as we know, Twitter needs a few spurts of growth, and lighter engagement points will help for those who are slowly being enticed into joining or rejoining.The nice part about Twitter Polls is that youre not being tracked when you vote, meaning your participation isnt made public to anyone and Im told that the data isnt being shared with marketing firms or brands. I would be really hesitant to respond to a Coke or Pepsi poll, for fear that Id get spammed or targeted by either company.Thats not to say that brands arent going to use the crap out of this, because they are. Itll also be used quite a bit by news outlets, especially with the upcoming presidential elections.If today was Election Day & these were the only two candidates who would win? @HillaryClinton @realDonaldTrump Anthony Noto (@anthonynoto) September 25, 2015Heres what Todd Sherman, product manager on Polls, had to say:Previously, weve offered a few ways to participate in polls  Tweeting questions and tracking replies, tallying hashtag votes, or asking followers to favorite or Retweet to vote. Now, youll be able to create your own two-choice poll right from the compose box and it will remain live for 24 hours. You can vote on any poll, and how you voted is not shared publicly. When the poll closes, well send a push notification to everyone who participated to check out the final results.Notice the bit about push notifications. Yes, this is another way to bring you back to the app. Im not saying its a bad idea, but it makes me not want to participate in a bunch of polls. Even though the ending times will be scattered over 24 hours, if you participate in a slew of them, youre going to wish you didnt. Turning notifications off is never the answer, itll be interesting to see if Twitter batches them.Regardless of whether this is limiting for the art of conversation on the platform, its nice to see Twitter shipping things rapidly. At the beginning of the month, the company launched its much-referred-to Project Lightning aka Twitter Moments. No word on how thats been going over, so perhaps well hear more at todays Twitter Flight conference about it.Watch me: adam bain (@adambain) October 4, 2015I use Moments quite a bit, especially when I havent been on Twitter for a few hours. Which happens once in a while. Shocking, I know.Twitter Polls are rolling out over the next few days for iOS, Android and desktop web and will show itself as an icon in the Twitter compose box, which means that the company is all in on the featurebecause space is limited here.