
Harry Stebbings is the founder and host of The Twenty Minute VC
, an independent podcast focused on venture capital. Fundraising is a game of competition.VCs compete against other VCs to fund the latest startups. Startups compete with other startups to attain funding from the brand name VCs.So, to be successfulfundraising, the founder must create acompetitive process between VCs, according to Aaron Hirschhorn, the founder of DogVacay, in our latest interview.Set DeadlinesParkinsons Law states that, tasks expand so as to fill the time available for its completion. This can be attributed to fundraising. As a result, it is the role of the founder to be strict in setting and maintaining a deadlineby which the fundraising must be complete.This allowsthe founder and team to plan and set milestonesbutalso provides impetus to VCs to involve themselves in a round before it closes.Be SpecificNot all money is the same, evident through Hirschhorn description of the valueof having Bill Gurley on the board. Therefore, founders should have a precise and definitive list of the VCs they would like to participate in their round. The number in this list varies according to founder. Gagan Biyani at Sprig told us, I write down 5 VCs and that is it, those are the ones I want. Hirschhorn provided a more varied view suggesting that 30 names was the optimal number to go for when fundraising.Time Your PitchIn fundraising, momentum is everything. As a result, it is crucial to time your pitch to correlate with milestones that show meaningful growth. For Hirschhorn, this was when DogVacay was doing a couple of hundred thousand dollars a month. For a SaaS company this could be when you sign a big enterprise client. Whatever it is, VCs are drawn to growth and momentum so correlate your raise with those moments.Practice Makes PerfectThe first time a founder presents to a VC, it will not be the best presentation they make. Not by a long shot. Consequently, never place the VCs that you most want in your round in the first week of pitching. Practicedoes make perfect with Hirschhorn suggesting the optimal time for pitch perfection is week 3. By this time, the founder and team have ironed out any inconsistencies and perfected the narrative of their story.Be TransparentA major pitfall of many founder is their inflation of where they are at in their raise. Do not fall victim to this. Transparency is key in fundraising. As Hirschhorn describes, they all talk to each other, Sand Hill knows everything. Hence, it is all about clarity, let the VCs know where you are in the process and how you want to move forward from here.Ultimately, the VC industry would not exist without founders creating startups, as Hirschhorn emphasises, it is up to the founder to control the dialogue.