The great thing about Bitcoin, for a tech columnist like me, is that its simultaneously over-the-top cinematic and technically dense. Richard Branson recently hosted a Blockchain Summit at his private Caribbean island. Theres a Bitcoin Jet. At the same time, 2015 has seen the release of a whole slew of technically gnarlyand technically fascinatingproposals built atop the Bitcoin blockchain.In case youve been living in a Faraday cage: a blockchain is a distributed peer-to-peer ledger system, (generally) safeguarded by cryptographic proof-of-work, initially devised by a mysterious entity called Satoshi Nakamoto  who released Bitcoin, the worlds first blockchain network/protocol/application/currency, in 2009.To most people, Bitcoin itself is already deeply esoteric (and many still find it risible.) But to cryptocurrency aficionados, tired old garden-variety Bitcoin is so five minutes ago. Explaining todays new cryptocurrency hotness to a general audience is an interesting challengeI have an engineering degree from a top-tier school and I write software for a living, and I still find much of this material pretty impenetrable on first acquaintancebut here goes:Sidechains Elements AlphaThe distributed Bitcoin mining network performs quadrillions of calculations every second that maintain the integrity of its blockchain. Other blockchains arent remotely as secure, but they innovate much faster. Sidechains, an innovation proposed and developed by the startup Blockstream, allow for the best of both worlds; the creation of new blockchains pegged to Bitcoin, so that value can be transferred between them, which can conceivably be automatically secured by Bitcoin miners via merged mining.The sidechains vision of the future is of a vast globe-spanning decentralized network of many blockchains, an intertwined cable rather than a single strand, each with its own protocol, rules, and features  but all of them backed by Bitcoin, and protected by the Bitcoin mining network, as the US dollar was once backed by gold. Sidechains can also be used to prototype changes to the fundamental Bitcoin blockchain. One catch, though: this will require a small tweak to the existing Bitcoin protocol.Ive written about this before. As of this week, though, sidechains are no longer vaporware. On Monday, Blockstream released the first alpha version of their sidechains software.Their Sidechain Elements are a collection of blockchain features that go well beyond Bitcoins blockchain, including (among others):Blockstream has also released an Alpha sidechain with all of those features up and running except the last, coupled to the Bitcoin testnet. (Used for testing Bitcoin software without putting real value at risk.) In the absence of the Bitcoin protocol change that will cryptographically secure the programmatic transfer of value between Bitcoin and sidechains, theyre cooperating with several external organizations to perform and validate those transfers. If and when that protocol change happens, though, pegged sidechains will be as permissionless, and as decentralized, as Bitcoin itself.The Lightning NetworkBut wait, theres more! A whole different group has released an early draft of a radical new proposal called the Lightning Network, which would, in principle, move the vast majority of Bitcoin transactions off the blockchain, without sacrificing any verifiability or security.I know, I know. As a faithful ear-to-the-ground early-adopter tech reader youve spent the last two years hearing everyone and their dog extol the virtues of blockchain technology, with which Bitcoin was supposed to be inextricably linked, and now suddenly people are talking about fully secure off-blockchain transactions?Let me explain. The Lightning Network allows for the creation of micropayment channels across which multiple Bitcoin transactions can be securely performed without interacting with the blockchain, except for the initial transaction that initiates the channel. There is no counterparty risk: if any party ceases to cooperate, and/or does not respond within an agreed-on time limit, the channel can be closed and all its outstanding transactions kicked up to the blockchain to be settled there.These in-channel payments would be instant, unlike current Bitcoin payments, which require an hour to be fully verified on the blockchain. Whats more, payments would be routable across multi-hop paths, like packets across the Internet  so instead of having to create a channel to every new counterparty, you could maintain a few channels to a small number of well-connected secure intermediaries and send/receive money through them.In theory, this distributed micropayment networkthe Lightning Networkcould scale Bitcoin transactions up to billions of transactions per day across the planet, with minimal use of the blockchain and minimal fees (zero, for direct channels.)However, the Lightning Network would, again, require a change to the existing Bitcoin protocol. (Though again it would be a soft fork, i.e. the existing blockchain would remain fully valid.) And/or  you guessed it  a Lightning sidechain. Whats more, one of the changes it requires, the elimination of transaction malleability, is handled by the Segregated Witness work in Sidechain Elements. (correction: all of of the changes required are incorporated into Elements Alpha  its Lightning-ready out of the box.)Early days yet, for both; but still, these are interesting times indeed.