Editors note:Iliya Rybchin leads the media and entertainment business for Highnote Foundry.This year, California will allow the testing of autonomous vehicles on public roads. Driverlesscarswill log thousands of miles this year  an Audi A7 already made asafe 550-mile tripfrom Silicon Valley to the 2015 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. However, its only a matter of time before adriverlesscar gets into afenderbender.Adriverlesscar probably wont cause the accident. It could easily be an inattentive driver rear ending thedriverlesscar at an intersection. But as soon as that first incident occurs, the ensuing insurance claim and potential lawsuit will create ripples across multiple industries.When a human is not making driving decisions, who is really at fault? The manufacturer of the car? The manufacturer of the components in the car that process the data? The programmers who wrote the code? The driver who put their faith in the car and did not intervene in time? Should auto insurance policies become product liability policies?This event will have broad implications, as drones, robots, sensor networks and other human-less technologies open up new areas of risk (and insurance) that todays companies are not equipped to handle.The most obvious implication will be on auto-insurance policies. Individual policies will be modified to include riders and other waivers to avoid potential product liability claims. But the companies involved in developing the technology required fordriverlesscarswill also be required to dramatically change their insurance policies.For decades, automobile manufacturers have incorporated the costs and requirements associated with high levels of product liability into their operating procedures. But until now, this has not been something that chip manufacturers and technology developers have had  or been required to have  as a core competency.Could we be facing the emergence of an Orwellian world? Already, dashboard cameras are standard in Russia, where fears of violence, corruption and misrepresentation combined with the high number of accidents have resulted in proactive consumer protections to obviate ambiguity as much as possible. And more and more frequently in cities like New York, taxis are outfitted with passenger cameras to protect both the driver and the passenger from untrue allegations.When lawsuits evolve arounddriverlesscars, it will be difficult for courts to process and account for the class of data evidence that will evolve  reams of statistics about algorithms, traffic patterns, precipitation rates and traffic light patterns. It may well be easier, more practical and less open to interpretation to have a video record of every incident.How will car and device manufacturers respond to demand as insurance companies give deep discounts forcarsinstalled with automated cameras? What new markets will emerge to provide solutions, including not just the cameras themselves but also storage and parsing of the video, interpretation, and certification of authenticity?I hope that any incident involvingdriverlesscarswont squash the rapid evolution of this industry. While its impossible to forecast all of the widespread implications of emerging technologies, it will certainly be fascinating to see them evolve. For example:Nobody can know all of the downstream implications ofdriverlesscars. However, a simplefenderbender will put the entire industry under a microscope. Clearly insurance companies  not generally known for their ability to innovate and pivot quickly  have both an opportunity and a risk. So, what should insurance companies be doing? As Alan Kay said, the best way to predict the future is to invent it.In order to ensure a positive outcome from whatever changes are on the horizon, companies must take an active, participatory role in the conversation. Insurance companies cant afford to be passive or to wait untildriverlesscarscome to market. Rather, they must create their own future. This could mean being an investor in related technologies or entering into strategic partnerships.So far, the discussions arounddriverlesscarshave involved Google, Audi, Mercedes, Toyota, and even Intel, Qualcomm, Navstar and Boeing. Ifdriverlesscarsare to really become a mass-market reality, companies like Progressive, Aetna, Allstate and Geico better get into the conversation quickly.