Editors note:Philip McNamara is the managing director for outsourcing firmVoxpro,a venture partner withEnterprise Equityandcreator of theDronesand Data X Conference in Santa Cruz.Dronesare no longerjustseen as a tool of the military or a toy that people use to fly around. Theyrebecoming accepted as a tool that businesses can deploy, and every day more and more companies are being created to builddroneprototypes and software to help themfly, detect obstacles and make sense of terabytes of data they collect. This is the golden age ofdrones, and it isjusttaking off.Take consumer perception  droneisa household word. Justlook at theGoogle Trendsfor the word drones or DJI. Check out the number ofdronevideos on YouTube (~827,000). According to Frost and Sullivan, an aerospace research firm, over 200,000droneswere sold each month in 2014. Parrot, a frenchdronemaker, reported sales of over $47 million indronesin 2013.Whether we like it or not, we are going to be seeing moredronesin the skyand onthe news, and they will get cheaper, faster and more reliable.Here, I want to go into some reasons why I thinkdronesare notjustafadbut arehereto stay.While still not commonplace,dronesare beginning to appear in many different industry settings, where their ease of use and huge costs savings over traditional methods, it makes it a no brainer for companies.Construction companies are not always first movers when it comes to new technology, butwhen it comes todrones, they have really taken a liking to them. Companies like Bouygues, Balfour Beatty and Webcor are usingdronesto map construction sites. They are employingdronesmade bySkycatch, whichrecentlymade a dealwith Japans Komatsu to enable driverless bulldozers to take instructions from unmanneddrones.You may not have known it, but youve probably already seen a lot of footage taken bydroneson TV. Big brands like Walmart,BMWand Nike have taken videos usingdrones. Video production companies have been very quick to usedronesto get difficult-to-reach shots. Moderndronesnow use steady-cam like gimbals to make videos look super smooth. Asdronesget more sophisticated, expect to see moredrone-made movies.Farmers are increasingly usingdronesto monitor crop health and gauge growth patterns. This is a job well-suited todrones, as previously helicopters would have had to do this job, at great expense.Companies likePrecision Hawkare developing software and hardware that automatically measures the height of crops and detect weeds, and they can even count plants. These kinds ofdronesare using fixed wings, which mean they can stay in the air for much longer, and capture a lot more data than a DJI-like quadcopter. Jay Bregman, the former CEO of Hailo, is developing verified database ofdrones, that will allow people to know where you can and cannot fly adrone.Many of you will have seen thedefibrillatordrone, which is still an idea, but could be a reality very soon. These kinds ofdronescould be useful for cities with dense traffic. Adronelike this could fly across heavy traffic and deliver life-saving equipment in under three minutes.For places with no roads to speak of, companies likeMatterNetare creatingdronesthat will deliver medicine. Then there aredronesthat will deliver life vests to drowning victims, or when a life guard cant get to a person on time. The average human takes 90 seconds to reach and save a drowning victim who is 75 meters from the beach. It takes adrone22 seconds.Why send a human into a blazing inferno, when you can send a robot?DroneAmerica, a company based in Reno, Nev., recently unveiled adronethat can capture heat signatures, analyze the chemical, biological, and radiological threats before someone actually gets to the fire. Police have been buying updronesfor years now, as the cost of running helicopters is very high compared to sending up adronefor a short period of time. Whatever you think about the surveillance state,droneswill continue to be used by law enforcement and security forces.The idea of adronetaking you to work is still a Jetsons kind of idea, but theres one company in Santa Cruz, Calif., that plans to kill your commute.Joby Aviationis building an ambitious aircraft: A personal craft that can lift off vertically, fly 200 miles and land vertically, all on battery power. While still several years away, the technology this company is developing could pave the way for new advances in personal transportation.I took a visit to their HQ and was blown away by the work theyre doing on VTOL technology, propellers that adapt and huge carbon fibre wings. Some people think thatdronescould be the next trend in personal transportation. While this is some ways off, I would love to believe in this dream, as would millions of commuters. Battery power and battery weight will have to improve dramatically, safety systems will have to be developed and anti-collision infrastructure will have to be deployed.The promise of personaldronesis one where youll jump into some kind of craft from your rooftop, punch in your destination via Google Maps, and be driven by a computer, guiding your destination while avoiding all other air traffic.Youll leave roads, traffic lights, traffic jams and accidents behind.This leaves us entrepreneurs with some challenges. Think about the huge opportunity ofdronesin the future, and what kind of software and hardware will have to be developed to manage that growth.There are very few companies out there today creating software to makedronessafer. What about systems to manage wheredronescan and cannot legally go? How will we know who owns adronewhen the next one crashes into a famous persons lawn? There is no equivalent of the DMV fordronesyet, or safety belts or airbags.Dronescould spur demand for lighter batteries or a different kind of power source.Dronesneed to see where they are going and avoid obstacles, and software is going to have to be built to make all of these dreams a reality.There are so many great applications fordrones, we havent even begun to scratch the surface. Whatever happens,dronesarehereto stay.