 From military deploymentasremote surveillance and killing machines, to hobbyisttoys, future delivery botsand now, coming later this year, stadium rockers Drones have quite the application trajectory.The latest heightto which flying robotsare set to soar isaround 75 meters. Aka the height of the Amsterdam Arena, in the Netherlands, where a drone entertainment show called Airis being planned for this fall.The show has been announced in the teaser video (above), andwill apparently involve lasers, projections and other special effects, along withplentyof fancy flyingmaneuvers.In this high energy and explosive show, drones will take centre stage to bring a collaboration and fusion of music, video, projections and special effects. AIR allows you to experience a variety of ballet and battles, races and lasers, circus, illusions and most of all magic from hundreds of drones.TheGuardianreports theevent hasbeen developed in conjunction with the Royal Netherlands Air Force. So this sounds like a way toshrink a full onairshow to fita stadium  and sell a truck load of tickets in the process. (The Amsterdam Arena has a capacity of around 50,000 when used as a concert venue.)Further detailsare scant at this point, despiteAirs organizers touting that tickets will go on sale soon. Evidently theyre hoping their sci-fi video willdo most of the talking.Safety will be an interesting issue here.Given that flying scores of drones in complex sequences over thousands of peoples upturned faces does rather invite a few ocularconcerns. Ticket buyers will presumably be asked to sign away health & safety concerns. And/or not be directly buzzed by the drones  perhaps by keepingthe shows action to the middle of the arena and the seating to the edges.(Related in drone regulations, but not directly applicable to this European entertainment show, the U.S.FAAs proposed rules for commercial drone use in open skiesstipulates that flights over people areprohibited.)The larger question here is of course whether a show without artists will proveto be all that entertaining. Flying dronesyourself can be fun. Watching a bunch of drones being chased bylasers in pre-set sequences to music might be rather less scintillating, unless youre a big fan of large scale firework displays.Perhaps drones will be able toadd edging out publicfirework displays and soulless stadium rock to their list of future achievements.