While smartphone userscontinue to be obsessedwith snappingphotos of everything around them/every angle of their person, developers will continue to come up with new ways to share those photos. And so the photo-sharing apps keep on coming.A new app called Dudr, created by a German startup, launched last week oniOSwith the idea ofmimicking the effect of giving a groupof friends a bunch of disposable cameras to snap photos at the same event.Dudrsgamification element is amped upby arequirement that these conjoined digital photo shoots are time-limited to 24 hours and that participants can only take 24 shots apiece.The team behind the apppreviously createdanother photo-focused service, calledpicjerry, which is a photo agency forsmartphone users to try to sell the photos they take on their phones. Dudr is being funded by thatother business, but is aspin-off  and potentially a startup in its own right  if the concepttakes off, says CEO Bernd Schmekel.The team has patented a location-based trigger system to simplify setting up a time-limitedgroup photo shoot on Dudr. It works by users simultaneously pressing and holding a button in the app when they are in the same location (the app uses GPS for this).Once all participants have appeared on screen, the button can bereleased and the shared photo channel is created. Dudrthen starts tracking the time remaining till the end of a photosession, counting down till the 24 hours are up. After the times upeveryone in the photo shoot gets a link to view all the shots their own and everyone elses.If a group of friendswants to add people who arenot in their immediate vicinity to a Dudr, this can be done in a more typical way  by sending an invite link to a specific Dudr via SMS, email, social media, etc.At this bootstrapped stage, its safe to say Dudris skeletal in terms of features andpretty rough round the edges,design wise. (It was apparently hacked together by the team in just 24 hours.) But if the core concept resonates, they could be onto something sticky.Last month another group-sharing app, called Stichy, launched  also looking to make it easier for groups to quasi-privately share media around events they all attended.Bottom line: not everyone wants to post everything on Facebook/Instagram et al. all the time. And partial sharing to specific groups of people on Facebook still sucks.The idea for Dudr came to Schmekel after his best friend returned from a holiday to the World Cup in Brazil last year.He stayed there with his 3DUDES in an apartment near Ipanema-Beach. They bought 10 quicksnaps (disposable cameras)  one for every day with 24 shots. After their vacation nobody could remember what actually happened.A week after, I was invited to their photo-show evening! All the DUDES were so excited, there were pictures OMG..! is howSchmekel explains the Dudr origin story, via email.I saw the potential for an app that provided a way to \time-delay\ the viewing of photos from an event or place, and together with my coding team developed the DUDR app  24 SHOTS in 24 HOURS! he adds.Despite the dude-ish name and bro-focused feel of the appright now, Schmekel says hesees potential for it to appeal outside lads holidays/outings  for other types of events such as gigs and weddings.So Dudr is not just intended for bros, even if it sounds like it might be.The app is free to download. Future monetization ideas might includegetting brands to payto start world channels. Like Budweiser starts a world channel and is looking for the best beer drinker  or Nike looks for your sports activity! says Schmekel.Theremay also be potential for premium in-app services for users, if they  for instance  want to find others to add on the app outside their own friend circle, he adds.Its worth noting that photos taken with Dudr are not ephemeral. On the contrary they are permanently stored on the companys servers. In the future we give the users the possibility to get a download link  especially for weddings this is useful, addsSchmekel.Indeed, the current v1 of the app does not even allow dudes to delete any of the photosthey take, although Schmekel says that feature might well be added in future.In the meanwhile, dudes, be careful what you Dudr.