InJune, Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures penned a widely read postusingdata from the law firm Cooley that showed,in Wilsons words, thatseed and Series A deals were more or less healthy while Series B deals were getting overheated and Series C and later deals had gone crazy.Something appears to be changing, suggestsnewdatafrom the market research company Pitchbook. Seed and Series A deals arent just healthy. Theyre slowing down. A lot.Based on the numbers, investors poured$1.95 billion into early-stage startups across115 deals in the second quarter. As of Friday,weve seen $300 million invested across 66 deals in the third quarter, and there isnt much time left. The quarter ends Wednesday.There could be numerous factors leadinginvestors totaper offtheir deal-making. The Federal Reserve will probably raise interest ratesbefore year end, which could spur newerstartupinvestors tolook for more certainreturns in fixed income or dividend-paying stocks and turn them off to riskier private-marketinvesting.Chinas rocky market  which unexpectedly if briefly dragged U.S. markets down, too, in late August could be playing a role, too.As venture capitalist Brian OMalley told us in the immediate aftermath of that frightening nosedive, thecurrent markethas grownscary. We have a lot of investments in companies that are going to need to raise money, and I think there are starting to be enough signals from the global markets that, at some point, it has to impact the private side.Its also the case that when marketvolatility hits, the two groups that scatter to the hills the quickest are the late-stage investorsand theangels, as notedVC Greg Gretsch of Jackson Square Ventures when we talked with him most recently. It might be interesting to see if theres a market decline in the level of angel interest over a period of time, hed added.AtTechCrunch Disrupt last week, early-stage investors said they were, in fact, writing fewer checks, though they cited different reasons.[T]his year, weve been slower to invest partially because in our analysis, there are years where there are lots of new ideas and big swings that are going for new industries, said Aileen Lee, cofounder of Cowboy Ventures. Ifeel like last year and maybe the year before were better years for big new ideas. This year, we havent seen as many.Meanwhile, Dana Settle, cofounder of Greycroft Partners, told the audience shes grownwary of inflated valuations.Though seed stage deals arent crazy when you look at Series and Series B valuations, Settlesaid, thereareplenty of reasons for pause. As she explained it:When you look back to 2012 through today, the pre-money valuations have essentially doubled. And thats just not healthy for the overall ecosystem [When]you sit back and you look at [current] average Series A valuations at $20 million and Series B valuations at $40 million, then you look at average exits going back for 30 years, with 90-plus-percent being at around $100 million to $125 million, the math gets tough when you add in the risk.There could also be also be atrickle-down reaction at play, according toSemil Shah, founder of Haystack, anactive-seed stage micro fundthat, like most firms, is in constant communication with existing and potential investors.A lot of [the institutional and individual investors who fund venture funds]have held off making commitmentsbecausetheyre affected by capital markets, andwhen investors investors start getting nervous, fewer checks tend to get written out to startups.Of course, another possibility may simply be timing. Summer means vacation, and deal-making often slips in the third quarter. Interestingly, though, thathasnt really been the case in recent years, as you can see in thechart below by Pitchbook.Check it out for yourself, and let us know what you think.Here is a link to the spreadsheet.[Disclosure: Shah is on the advisory board ofStrictlyVC, astartup foundedby this editor.]