Bashowas once a rising star inthe NoSQL space, butover timeother vendors began to move in,and itlost a step or two  then camea big turnover of key personnellast year. With the company ready to start anew, CEO Adam Wray says a new $25M cash infusion should help get Bashomoving.Private equity firm Georgetown Partners, a previousinvestor, is supplying the Series G funding, but Wray says he hopes to bring in some west coast investors later this year as well. Prior to this round, Basho had raised $32.5M over five rounds with the latest coming back in July, 2012 for $11.5M. The latest round brings the total raised to-date to $57.5M, which is still a drop in the bucket compared to their well-funded competitors.Bashos products include the Riakdatabase and the Riak CScloud storage.Wray, who was a founder and CEO at Tier 3, a companythat was soldto CenturyLinkin 2013, says Basho might have lostsome of its luster along the way, but it was once a thought leader in the NoSQL space. As it grew, he admitted the early executives did a poor job of articulating a vision or building mindshare among developers, something thats key in this space.Back in 2008 when it launched, there werent that many NoSQL vendors to compete with Basho, but over the years the company seemed to lose its mojo and othervendors like Couchbase, MongoDB and DataStaxcame along to fill the void and grab the bulk of the funding. Hadoop also began to chip away at the company.Its worth noting that just last week, MongoDB received a whopping $80M in additional funding, and this comes on the heels of $150M in funding October, 2013for a total of $311M to-date. Couchbase has received $116M in funding to-date and DataStax, almost $190M. So there is some serious cash being pumped into this market.It all came to a head for Basho last year whenexecutives began rushingfor the exits with theirCEO, CTO and chief architect all leaving in a short period. Thats when the company brought in veteran executives like Wray as CEO and Dave McCroryas CTO, whose past gigs included SVP of engineering at Warner Music Group and cloud architect jobs at VMware and Dell.With these changes, Wray saysthe company began to find its footing again.Today, theyve got some high-profile customers like AT&T, Verizon and The Weather Company, whose properties include The Weather Channel and The Weather Underground. And the company has been shipping new product and seeing some results, reporting an impressive 88 percent growth in bookings between the second half of 2013 and the second half of 2014.Wray has been around the block a few times with technology companies. In addition to Tier 3, he has worked for Amazon and Akamai. He came on board because he saw potential. He liked the fact the company was based onan open source product with an active community.And he believes he has begun takingsteps to build the company back up.Whats exciting, he said is we arent a niche play.We are a platform play driving simplifcation.If we play this right in theory and we can go to public markets.He said, hes not predicting this will happen, but he believes its possible if they keep on the current trajectory. For now, Basho needs to play catch-up with the other players in this space (and with Hadoop vendors), mostof whomhave much better funding at this point.The company was originally launchedin Cambridge, Mass., andwhile the 100+employees today area geographically dispersed group, its headquarters is now in Bellevue, Wash.