Berlin-based startup edgeereckons its spotted a vacant space in the crowdedsocial media parking lot fora new digital content format designed to sitbetween the expertise and effort of writing a blog post, and the brevity and flightinessof a tweet.In a nutshell, the platform (web-only for now but with mobile apps in the works) letspeoplechoose, order and annotatemultimedia collages of others content, to create themed displays on topics of their choice.For instance, one user has made an edgee entitledCombating the Surveillance State which links to a Ted Talk by Edward Snowden, books by Alan Moore and Glen Greenwald, articles on anti-surveillance face camouflage and more, on one themed page.Is there really demand for such a third way online content format? edgee evidently thinks so, arguing that its easy-to-use template tool for buildingembedded multimedia content collections (linking to the source material) lowers the barrier of entry to content creation by allowing users to remix digital mediain highly customized ways, and without having to have high level topicexpertise themselves. So basically its a content creation tool without the need to create original content.What we found out talking to a lot of consumers is that most of them do not create, says co-founderMarkus Maier, discussing the inspirationfor edgee. Many do notfeel they have enough knowledge, have mastered the subject matter enough so that they can actually write a blog post.I myself was frustrated. I felt like I wanted to create something online but I never had the time to create a blog. And I always thought Twitter was too reductionist. And then on top of that Im interested in a lot of subject areas where if you write about it you have to have an incredible wealth of knowledge, he adds, citing the European debt crisis as an example of an area hes interested in but does not feel adequately equipped with expertise to blog directly about.I can make my own edgee about the European debt crisis without being a PhD. And I felt this idea of standing on the shoulders of other content creators enabling the layman to create something he can be proud of was a really interesting idea.On the surface the edgee conceptmightsound rather like Pinterest. With some overlap withthe likes of Genius. Or Medium. Or Google+. Or ello.Or even Flipboard. Not so, says Maier, arguing thatedgee offers more control than Pinterest, more content types than Genius, more custom annotation than Flipboard, and flipsthe rules of Medium on itshead  by havingthe majority of an edgeepost not be original content, so requiring less expertise to create. edgees are basically others multimedia content  selected, arranged and captioned by the user, so its about remixing and repacking. As for Google+ and ello, Maier says edgee is different because the format is distinct in that users create discrete units  in the same way that a Pinterest user creates different boards  whereas other social networks are about individual posts which are used to populate continuous, unordered social streams.All of thatmay sound like subtle distinctions vs other UGCplatforms but ifedgee can get traction asa focused, content-discovery platform it couldoffer variousinterest-based communities a shortcut to content they care about  cutting out the leg work of Googling stuff themselvesor filtering friends social streams. Our long term goal isthat once people have created enough interesting edgees,consumers actually come to edgee to explore, addsMaier.I think were one of the first platforms that really tries to break down all the different verticals Frankly Ive never seen this type of diverse content in one place anywhere on the web and I think thats the direction we should be going with our multimedia devices. Why would you only go to Netflix? Why would you only go to Wikipedia?And as for mainstream social networks  the Facebooks and Twitters of the digital world  Maier says edgee is looking to piggyback on those networks, rather thantry to compete with them for audience eyeballs. So you can post your edgees to Facebook et al to spread their reach.Were trying to stand on the shoulders of other networks, he says. We think an edgee is ideal for somebody who is passionate in a certain subject area to create something that feels original and then you can spread it via Facebook, via Twitter, via email to their existing audience. So were not trying to create a new audience  maybe in the long term  but in the short term we are connected to all the existing social networks.edgee isofficially launchingout of beta today, andhas signed uparound 50,000 early users during aninvite-only two monthperiod. Its alsoraised some500,000 in angel funding so far, and is in the process of raising a Series A round for the next phase of growth.Its not hard to see where a (future) business model could take shape for edgee, assumingit can gain adequate traction. The rich media format would clearly lend itself well to dressing up branded content to look like its something interesting (aka native advertising). Ecommerce affiliate revenue could be another route to monetization.Early edgee users have comethe tech community, finding it viaProduct Hunt, but its since expanded to be picked up by the Berlin arts scene, according toMaier.He sees expansive use-cases for the platform  including in education, where it could be used to fostercollaborative learning. Acollaboration feature will be coming in the next few months to allow multiple users to contribute to a single edgee. Its one of the most requested features, he says. Especially teachers, especially professors. They want their students to chip in, and were working on that.Elsewhere, the repackaging element of edgees has apparently caught the eye of bloggers wanting to make moreout of their existing content. We even have a couple of travel bloggers that use edgee and just, I guess, repackage their whole travel into one edgee. So this meta level is actually being used by bloggers, says Maier. They mix and match existing blog posts, add some of their favorite other bloggers, they create an expose about their whole travel. So in the travel space weve found some interesting traction as well.