UK fintech startupElliptichas pulled in a $5 million Series A round to keepbuilding out its blockchain forensics tool. Its transaction-tracing technologymines the public Bitcoinledger toidentify and flag up suspicious transaction patternswithin the distributed digital currency  offering the promise ofcombating Bitcoin-powered money laundering andother criminal activity.Elliptic was founded back in 2013, amid muchBitcoin hype, and initially launched a Bitcoin storage product, in July 2014, taking in $2 million fromOctopus Investmentsat the time.That was a way for it to test the waters in a nascent space, says CEO and co-founder James Smith. He notes the founding team combinestechnical backgrounds with fintech expertise andsaw early disruptive promise in Bitcoin/blockchain  albeit they werent immediately sure how it would shake out.Were a startup, and you have to look around and see what the industrys doing and find what youre best suited to, Smith tells TechCrunch. When we first looked at Bitcoin we saw it both from the financial point of view, but also the technical point of view. And saw that there was going to be something to this.We wanted to jump in and start getting to know the industry, so we started we something fairly basic  which was the storage. Which is hard to do right but its not super hard and its not so much a technology solution as more of an operations solution. But it was something to get out feet wet and to start to get to know the industry and figure out what was really required.What it learn was that compliance was becoming an increasing pain-pointforlarger (legal) entities in the Bitcoin space, asthe regulatory regime around the digital currencymatured.To address this need Elliptic built andlaunched its first blockchain analytics product last summer, and now has in the region of10 to 20 Bitcoin companiesusing it  which Smith describes as pretty much every large player in theBitcoin ecosystem in the US and Europe.We started with a problem, and the technology came next, he says.The first product was for companies in the Bitcoin space who are transacting a lot of Bitcoin  so its the exchanges, payment providers and so on.Theyve got a responsibility to satisfy regulation. Thats particular in the States and in Europe where AML [anti-money laundering] regulation is more strict. And its particularly for the larger and better funded companies who have the most regulatory scrutiny.Elliptichas since also expanded its customer focus to encompass lawenforcement agencies, offering atooltohelp themacquire evidence connectingcriminal entities through the Bitcoin network. Smith says it now has about five U.S. law enforcement agencies plusa few others across Europe using its tool.On the competition side, henames Chainalysisand Block Seeras main rivals but argues they are more focused on law enforcement vs the core compliance imperative driving Elliptic.How Ellipticstechnology works involves tracing transactionsvia the public Bitcoin ledger in order to be able toconnectdifferent entities by creating a template of linkages. And while ithas to do some labeling of Bitcoin addresses itself, to make sketching such a picture of interesting activitypossible, its more acting as aconnective tissue layer for its customers  byjoining up, for example,Bitcoinaddress data held by a BTC exchangewithasuspicious series of transactions unearthed by itspattern-spotting technology.Smith notes that suspicious patterns might initially be identified by a (human) compliance officer, employed by one of itscustomers, with itsmachine learning algorithms then using that data tospot variations and multiple instances of the same patterns.By looking at the patterns of transactions and how they interact, over time we can start building up a picture of which transactions are associated with which entities, he explains, noting that links could be similar spending patterns as well as direct connections between different Bitcoin addresses. You can start to build up a real view of how real world entities are interacting with each other within this ledger. And thats quite a powerful tool.Our focus is on particularly criminal entities within this world. And so we do a lot of data gathering to start to identify who those transactors are  so we go and gather a lot of information from the dark web particularly, but also from the clear web and other sources  to start building up data points that help us label that view of the world that we have.And then we can start saying ok now I see that that entity there is really the Silk Road and I can see that the funds flow from the Silk Road to this guy, to that guy, to a few different places and then theyve tried to cash out at an exchange.And no, its mission is notto make everyBitcoin transaction and every addressholder radically transparent, confirms Smith. Its about targeting its data gathering and labeling for specific compliance and law enforcement needs.Bitcoin has this reputation for anonymity but its not actually completely anonymous in that every transaction is recoded, says Smith. Bitcoin was designed to be a form of censorship-resistant digital cash; anonymity was never the original design goal.Theres a lot of powerful information recorded [in the Bitcoin blockchain] if you go back. This is only seven years old and peoples understanding of it is evolving, and there are some transactions people have made in the past before they realized it wasnt anonymous, he adds.People will have to be pragmatic about how you treat things that happened four years ago as well. Because if you take some of the exchanges, for example, who are perfectly legitimate businesses because they didnt have tools like ours available four years ago or two years ago even, they were often getting people taking money out of the Silk Road and then cashing out on their exchange. And they had no way of identifying that.Bitcoin has been through many ups and downs, from peak hype and fluctuatingvalues back in 2013 to something that feels rather more questionedthan hyped now. Just as well then that Elliptic has not hitched its wagon to the fortunes of Bitcoin per se, with Smith talking up the potential of theunderlying blockchain technology  and envisaging future applications for its technology that dont involved Bitcoin itself.Bitcoin is one of several areas we may end up deploying this technology, he notes, adding that in fact the analysis canbe applied to any ledger of transactions (it does not even need to be a blockchain-powered ledger).What it really is is you build up a view of a network. You look at the different entities in a network thats a graph of entities  and were able to identify patterns within that. Quite complex patterns that connect together different entities in ways that might not be immediately obvious. And thats what allows us to identify things like money laundering or people trying to obfuscate where their funds are flowing for other reasons.One possible blockchain applicationhesees potential for is settlements of securities  something he notes banks are doing trials with now. Akadeciding, after a trade, when shares are transferred.In a domain like that where youve got a lot of regular movement around of valuable securities the market supervisor will want to be aware of whether there are any signs of market abuse. And again with securities frauds, people are pretty smart, generally, and there are quite complex patterns of how its done. So again its an area we can use our ability to understand patterns within a network of entities to highlight things were people might be trying to abuse the system.But (for the moment) back to Bitcoin, Smith says that while the digital currencymay now be a less easy routeto launder money, vs itsearlier Wild West years, heremains confident the criminals will keep trying to use Bitcoin  and that, ultimately, is good for Elliptics (current) business.Every asset is to some extent [used by criminals]. And Bitcoin is a way to move large amounts of money with low cost and low friction so it will always have some attraction. And it will become a bit of an arms race. It already is. The sophistication with which criminals try to hide their tracks within Bitcoin will continue to increase and our ability to uncover that will continue to increase alongside it, he adds.I hope that this will be a catalyst for more legitimate businesses to feel like they are ready to start having a look at this space. And I hope well see a growth in Bitcoin as a result. But were very confident that blockchains more broadly are going to become a bigger part of how financial services work over the coming years.Elliptics $5M Series A round was led by Washington-based Paladin Capital Group, with participation from Santander InnoVentures, KRW Schindler, Digital Currency Group, and existing investor, Octopus Ventures.Smith says the round will be used to expand the team, with key hires plannedfor the product and technology side.The funding is also intended to give the company 1.5 years worth of runway  which he says he hopes will be enough time to develop applications for the technology outside Bitcoin.The reason we have raised to give us a year and a half is we think thats about the amount of time its going to take for other blockchains to start coming online in any sort of production capacity. Theres a lot of trials out there but we think its still a way away before banks start using blockchain technology in anger, he says.I dont think [Bitcoin] is going away but Im undecided as to whether its going to become huge. In recent years as a society weve somewhat been moving away from cash and as much as peoples faith might have been shaken by the credit crisis, everybody relies on credit. And everybody relies on trusting institutions that are bigger than them. So I would like to see Bitcoin become bigger but Im much more bullish on the technology underneath than I necessarily am on the currency.