Four and a half years is a lot of pretty pictures. Instagram isnt as young as it used to be, and it doesnt want long-time users to slip away from its app.Luckily,it can still email them. Email isnt dead, no matter how much we wish it was. High open-rates mean it still matters. Twitter bought a whole startup to power re-engagement emails touting the best tweets you might have missed.Now Instagram has started sending its own email digest called Highlights featuring a few of the best posts from people you follow. It could rope back in users whove strayed from the photo network.After spotting Highlights, Instagram confirmed to me that this is the first time its sent any type of promotional or re-engagement email. Its so fresh theres not even a setting to control it. When I tried hitting Unsubscribe to see where it took me, I discovered there was no email settings menu and no way to re-subscribe.Some people will surely bristle at the idea of receiving more email, especially ones they didnt explicitly sign up for. However,Highlights could solve an issue common amongst maturing social networks that show a live, reverse chronological feed of posts. It impacts networks like Instagram and Twitter, but not relevancy-sorted streams like Facebooks.This Unfiltered Feed Problem happens when people follow too manyoversharers that drown out their real friends who dont post as often. That leads to a noisy feed full of content people dont care about, which can decrease their usage. It can also cause them to be stingy with following more accounts, making it tough for new users to gain an audience and want to stick around.But those effects can be offset, to a degree, with ways to surface the most popular content in your network. Twitter is addressing this with its revamped Discover pagealso named Highlights, after already running email campaigns for a few years following its acquisition of RestEngine. Facebook has tested a variety of re-engagement tools, including email and text messages. Most recently, Ive heard of Facebook sending people push notifications about two of their friends getting married.Now Instagram is maturing to the phase where its trying to wake up lapsing members. It has 300 million monthly users, but thats an imprecise statistic encompassing some who hardly check it. To accomplish its mission of sharing moments and fuel its ad-based business model, it needs us to voraciously browse its feed.Instagrams strategy for that has been to avoid letting photos slip outside its walls. It decided not to let Twitter render its photos in-line so people would have to use Instagram.But now its reaching out, hoping to meet users half way.Highlights could remind people what theyre missing when they dont open Instagram.And I wouldnt be surprised to see the app build a better best of feature into its Explore tab, which felt deeply outdated and forgettable until Instagram started personalizing it a year ago. Rather than the worlds most popular photos, which can feel distant, Explore could surface the top photos from your network and nearby. That way Instagram could entertain you best, even if your life doesnt revolve around the perfectly chosen filter.