Imagine a young startup where two of three founders are pushed out the door. Imagine that this same startup parts ways with its COO, its SVP of Finance, its VP of Guest Experience, its VP of Engineering, its VP of Marketing and roughly half its other full-time employees, all within a period of months. Not last, imagine that the remaining cofounder, who is 20, has never before held a full-time job.Sound like a great company into which to sink a small fortune? Investors in Flightcar, a 3.5-year-old, San Francisco-based startup, apparently think so. In fact, Priceline Group, Tencent Holdings, and earlier backers GGV Capital, General Catalyst Partners, Softbank Capital and First Round Capital came together last month to quietly provide the company with $20.7 million in Series B funding. It has now raised roughly $40 million to date.Flightcar was formed to address a very real problem: the hassles involved in airport parking. The idea: while youre away on a trip, someone else arriving into town can use your ride. You leaveyour car with a valet and skip the process of schlepping back and forth to a far-flung lot. You also avoid parking fees that can add up fast. Your car, meanwhile, gets insured against theft and damage, its thoroughlycleaned, and youre given a little cash for every day your car was rented.The idea isnt foolproof for many reasons, including growing competition from Uber. But Flightcar had been ticking along just the same, striking deals with three airports  San Francisco, Boston, and L.A.  by September of last year and raising $13.5 million in the process.Then, encouraged by investors to start scaling as rapidly as possible, the figurative wheels began to come off.AsFlightcar was striking a deal with its 17th airport, customers began to complain. Recent reviews on Yelp include stories ofcars returned back to me dirty with fast food wrappers in it, unexpectedly canceled reservations, andscam-like behavior. Another customerwho says she rented a car through the service but would never rent out her own car via the platform, writes on Yelp: They are very responsive and helpful when you need to rent a car, but if anything bad happens or issues arise, its like the company doesnt exist anymore.The biggest hindrance, say numerous former employees, is co-founder and CEO Rujul Zaparde, who turned down a freshmen spot at Harvard to run Flightcar with friends Kevin Petrovic and Shri Ganeshram  and who laterpushed out both men, at different times. Ganeshram left the company within months of its launch;Petrovic was ousted in July over a difference in priorities, he says. Interviews with numerousformer and current employees, confirmed by variousLinkedIn accounts, show that half a dozenhigh-level employees walked out behind him. (Most of those people declined to comment for this story.)Zapardesobsession with unit economics is one issue, says one former employee. You still cant change a reservation with Flightcar online;you have to call to do that, says this person, adding that rather than hire needed engineers or pay competitively, Zaparde has long been more far more interested in cutting pay by a dollar and giving employees less equity than they should have received.Zaparde is also described by several current and former employeesas unwilling to engage enoughwith both employees or customers. That saying about the customer always being first? Rujul thinks the customer is always wrong.He doesnt trust people, says athird long-time employee who left the companyand explains that there werent a lot of meetingswith managementand those that did take place were generally one-on one. Saysthis person of Zapardess methodology, There was no broader context. He only wanted people to know as much as they needed to do their jobs.Perhaps its no surprise that investors see things differently. Hans Tung of GGV Capital  who is now Flightcars only board member other than Zaparde  calls Zaparde thoughtful and says he has seen remarkable growth at the company, though he declines to discuss metrics.Adds Tung of a majorrestructuring that took place this weekandhas left the startup with littlemore than half its former employees (which, until recently, included 25 people in corporate and another 125 people working around the country in other roles, including as valets):Young startups will have founders who need to work out their issues. But if we didnt think highly of Rujul, we wouldnt have led Flightcars Series A or participated in its Series B.(Other investors, speaking on background, similarly say they think that now is a good time to take stock of the company and hire freshtalent that can take it to a new level of growth.)Cofounder Petrovicreached en route to the airport last night,in an Uber, notablysays he doesnt think the company is doomed, either, despite the turmoil it has endured this year. Though he thinksFlightcarwasntready for the scale operationally that its investors were encouraging, he seems somewhat sanguine about all the turnover.It would be hard to do something too drastic to fix the problems at the company, he says. It actually makes me optimistic that [board members Zaparde and Tung] understand the gravity of the issue and [know] that they need to make significant changes in order to have as bright a future as possible.Asked about Zapardes management style, Petrovicsays, Rujul is 20 and he stands to make a lot of money. Im sure hes doing his best. If it were his third company, maybe hed be doing it differently.We asked Zaparde to comment for this story. Instead, he forwarded our request to Julie Sapan, a professional who has worked with a long line of companies that needed help with their positioning and marketing and who was brought in to Flightcar last month to assess the damage.Supan, who says shes now the companys acting CMO, confirmed via email yesterday that, [Tuesday], we did a strategic restructuring across our business.She added that [W]e are evolving our model to sharpen our focus and double down on the remarkable organic growth were seeing at FlightCar. Youll hear more from us in the coming year.