There are affordable computers, there are cheap computers and then theres the Endless Mini, which is available for as little as $79.Everybody in the world deserves the option to have a computer, said Endless CEO and Chief of ProductMatt Dalio.In other words, Endless is building Linux-based computersfor people who have never owned a computer, particularly those in developing nations. Usually, when people talk to me about bringing offline populations online, theyre focused on smartphones, but Chief Growth Officer MarceloSampaio argued, Everybody whos predicted the death of the computer ownsa computer.In Sampaios view, a keyboard and mouse will always be a better interface for certain tasks  such as writing this post. So themain obstacle to computer adoption has been cost and Internet connectivity.Ive already mentioned the cost, though to be clear, the Endless Mini price tag doesnt include a screen, a keyboard or mouse. Dalio said acustomers TV could serve as the screen, while a keyboard and mouse could cost as little as $10. (Endless is also working on a more expensive model that starts at $189.)I saw the Endless Mini in-action earlier this week at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. It offered like a pretty standard graphical interface  besides the price, what really set it apartis Endless approach to connectivity, which it describes as Internet Optional.For example, the computer offersan encyclopedia app with offline versions of popular Wikipedia articles, and theres an education app with videos from Khan Academy. So if you dont have an Internet connection, you can still get access to onlinecontent, even if its not 100 percent up-to date. Then, when and if you are connected, the apps will update. The Endless team builds the apps, but Sampaio described the companys role as being content curators rather than content creators.Cheap hardware is a commodity, Dalio said. The operating system is the key. In fact, he suggested that Endless might eventually license the operatingsystem for free to other hardware companies.Endless is available for online purchase in the US, but more importantly for reaching its target audience, Dalio said it has a presence in 20 countries, thanks topartners like Mexican telecom company Amrica Mvil. The companyalso has an impressive list of advisors, including Tony Robbins (yes, that Tony Robbins) and Nicholas Negroponte (founder of One Laptop per Child).