
Jeremy Levy is CEO of web-based analytics platform Indicative.PayPal co-founder and venture capitalist Peter Thiel commonly harps on the tech community for overusing buzzwords like cloud and bigdata. Hesnot the only one whos been saying this, but the message still doesntappear to be sinking in with mostenterprises.Companies often tout all their terabytes and petabytes ofdata, and their massive teams ofdatascientistsrunninghuge Hadoop clusters with Apache Kafka streams that are such a competitive advantage.The truth is, most of them suffer from one of the old adages in computing: garbage in, garbage out. Not only do most of themactually nothaveBigDatain terms of data complexity or volume, but most of them actuallyhaveCrappyData, and its probably hurting their business. According toExperianDataQuality, inaccuratedataaffects the bottom line of 88 percent of organizations and impacts up to 12 percent of revenues.Some companies actuallyhavegooddataand know how to use it. From mature, web-native companies like Google to engineering-based companies like Boeing, thecompanies listed below havesuccessfully managed enormous amounts ofdataand used it to make truedata-driven decisions.Netflix: Giving Its Users What They Want. Accounting for a third of peak-time Internet traffic in the U.S., Netflix collects massive amounts of dataabout its users viewing habits, and can break it down by region, time of day, watching hours and a plethora of otherdata. This has put them in a unique position of being able to accurately predict what viewers want.Case in point,Netflix hasexpanded well beyond a DVD and streaming service to becoming its own production company, with hit shows like House of Cards and Orange Is the New Black. Theyve also shirked the traditional pilot episode model to confidently produce full seasons of their original series.IBM And The Weather Company:Understanding How Weather Affects Business. IBM has teamed up with the Weather Company to combine two very large sets of dataand accurately analyze how the weather impacts business. Spanning everything from retail to insurance, theyll be able to accurately provide real-time insights into how temperature changes impact sales or how insurance companies can save dollars by advising their clients to move their cars.Icahn School Of Medicine At Mount Sinai:Predicting Patients Health. The New York City-based school has tasked Jeff Hammerbacher, famously known as Facebooks first datascientist, to lead the development of a computer that analyzes the medical information theyvecollected from the half a million patients they treat per year.Working with the head of Mount Sinais Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, theyre working to make predictions that could cut the cost of healthcare  from assessing a patients medical history and risk factors to determine how often theyll need healthcare to allowing doctors to prescribe treatments based on risk models gathered from genomics and labdata.Amazon: Setting A New Bar For Customer Service. Amazon has access to unprecedented insights about its users  from what books theyre reading to how often theyre restocking cotton balls. While other companies havebackburnered customer support, Amazon has made it a key to its business by emphasizing the importance of communication and direct relationships with their consumers. Amazon uses its wealth ofdataabout their users to immediately provide representatives with relevant information about a customer the moment they need support, streamlining the process and solidifying their loyalties.Xerox: Improving Employee Retention. Whereas past work experience has often been the model for hiring new employees, Xerox found that hiring for its call centers had an entirely different basis for success. Using bigdata, the organization found that a potential employees personality was the real predictor of whether they would stay  creative people tended to stick it out, inquisitive people did not. Armed with this information, and a hiree survey rather than a hiring manager, they were able to cut their employee turnover rate at all their call centers by 20 percent in six months.However, most companiesdontusedatawell.Enterpriseshavehistorically spent far too little time thinking about whatdatathey should be collecting and how they should be collecting it. Instead of spear fishing, theyve taken to trawling thedataocean, collecting untold amounts of junk without any forethought or structure. Deferring these hard decisions has resulted indatascience teams in largeenterprisesspending the majority of their time cleaning, processing and structuringdatawith manual and semi-automated methods.DJ Patil, the recently appointed ChiefDataScientist of the White House,summarizes thedataproblem well, noting that youhaveto start with a very basic idea:Datais super messy, anddatacleanup will always be literally 80 percent of the work. In other words,datais the problem.But its not allbadnews. According to the industry research firm Wikibon, 52 percent ofdatatool investments are being spent on technologies for ingesting and organizingdataso that it can be more readily accessible and prepared for analysis. However, the key to tackling this properly isntjustspending on more or better tools.To truly turn an enterprise into adatacompany, here are some guidelines and methods that have been performed by some of the bestdatacompanies in the world.Know Thyself.Start by understanding the type of data youneed to analyze first  is it eventdata, financialdata, graphdata or something else?This is the most important factor indetermining whetheryoua need to capturedataat the most atomic level or in some other format.Dont Over-Delegate.Many businesses hand off setting up analysis to developers or IT without involving the actual business users its critical that those who are actually going to be using the dataare involved with understanding exactly how it is being collected and aggregated to avoid critical problems down the road.Define The Use Cases.As a corollary to dont over-delegate, dont let business users either give generic use cases (e.g. we want to track lead sources) or spec out irrelevant use cases. Every piece ofdataneeds to fit into an analytical framework and be part of solving a problem. Appoint either a highly technical business user or business-savvy tech lead to own the final signoff here.Stop At The Source. Garbage in, garbage out; make sure you understand the source and types ofdata.Where does yourdataoriginate? Is it accurate? Ifyoudontknow the answers to these questions, start looking into it now.Use The Right Tool For The Job. There are many great analytical tools out there. Undertake a formal bake-off process once youve defined your key use cases for your business and end users, and evaluate against your needs versus potential cool features youmay never end up using.Bigdataalone is silly. Building an enterprise with smart, usabledatais what every company should strive to create.