Enterprise startups have a new venture fund to pitch. Leaders Fund, a new, North American venture firm,is taking the wraps off its debut, $100 million fund, and the capital is earmarked exclusively for software companies selling to businesses.Given the cofounders, its focus isno wonder.David Steinprevious cofoundedthe social performance platform companyRypple (Salesforce.com acquired it in 2011). He also cofounded the workforce management applications companyWorkbrain, which went public and was later acquired.Steve DeBacco, who worked with Stein as COO of Workbrain, most recently served as CRO of the software and consulting services company Applied Predictive Technologies,acquired last April byMasterCard.Meanwhile, a third cofounder,Gideon Hayden, has spent the last few years as an investor with OMERS Ventures, working with the outfits SaaS portfolio companies, including the social media management platform Hootsuite.Leaders Fund also has a venture partner, Howard Gwin, who spent six years as an executive at HR software giant PeopleSoftbefore it wasacquired by Oracle in 2004.The new outfitis unusual in a few ways. First, its cofounders dont live in the typical investing hotspots of the Bay Area or New York or L.A.; they live in Toronto and Atlanta, respectively. Says Stein, We see a lot of opportunities in underserved markets that have madeless progress in terms of IT investments.They havent been working away on their angel investment portfolios, either. Stein, for example, has backed just half a dozen startups over the years, including Hootsuite. He saysthe institutional investors thatmake up most of the fund (he and his partners chipped in 5 percent from their own checkbooks), were more interested in the fact that the team hasexperience growing enterprise startups into public companies.They thoughtweshould have a good instinct for what it takes to buildawinning business and to plug in at certain points to provide startups with specific advice, from what it takes to build a team to how to engineeran IPOor other exit,hesays.Stein says another selling point wasthe new funds evergreen nature, meaningthe fund has an indefinite fund life, with LPs given the ability to exit or change their investment in the fund every so often,at which point the portfolio is valued and some carry incentive is calculated for the general partners.Explains Stein, Ultimately, thestructure made sense because we think it will enable us to make the right kinds ofinvestments anddeliver returns without having to factor inwhat can otherwise beunnatural time lines to exit. Its a more flexible structure that lets us take alonger term view of each business.Leaders Fund has already backed a few founding teams, says Stein, though the firm isnt prepared to go public with its portfolio just yet. What he will say is the team is most focused, for now, on machine learning, Internet of Things companies and trends, and mobile enterprise applications.What the team wants to avoid, he says, is pressuring its portfolio companies to grow too quickly. Ive seen it happen plenty of times over the years where a company raises a lot, then feels pressure to spend it ahead of where the founding team can do so wisely. Wed much rather invest our time with companies so were really up to speed with them and can be helpful at key inflection points. As former operators, we know thats much more valuable.Picture courtesy of Leaders Fund. Pictured left to right:Howard Gwin, David Stein, Gideon Hayden. Not pictured is Atlanta-based partner Steve DeBacco.