Weve seen startups try to replace or automate the work of executive assistants, butEsperis trying to do something different  it aimsto help those assistants make smarter decisions.Esper CEO Andrew Lee was previously founder at JamLegend and then, post-acquisition, a product manager atZynga. The company has raised $2 million from Joe Lonsdale (a founder at Palantir and Formation 8),Charlie Songhurst, Garry Tan (who recently left Y Combinator), Isaac Applbaum (previously managing directorat Lightspeed Venture Partners),Harrison LeFrak, Lee Linden and Roger Dickey.Esper has launched two products to start. Theres Esper Scheduling, a Chrome plugin that includes features like saved meeting preferences, daily email digests summarizing your calendar and the ability to aggregate emails into a task list.ThentheresEsper TimeStats, which analyzes calendars to show how someone is spending their time. Once youve categorized a few items on your calendar, TimeStats tries to automatically categorize the rest, and shows you how it all breaks down. That, in turn, canhelp executives and their assistants decide which meetings are worthwhile and identify areas where they might be wasting a lot of time.But will peopleactually use it? Well, maybe they should. Esper points to a number of studies showing that executives are bad at managing their timeandthey do better at it when they havehelp.In fact, Esper says its already being used as by executives assistants at Dropbox, Stanford Law School, Uber and Code for America.Lee described the companyas Salesforce for executive assistants, and compared TimeStats to Mint  it helps users take existing data and understand the bigger patterns and trends. In a recent LinkedInpost, he also talked about his vision for how the role of the executive assistant can evolve:
The future assistant will be a combination of a human assistant and technology  think a cyborg suit, a piece of technology that automates the future of administrative tasks. Instead of talking head, think suggestion machine  giving you choices for your next calendar event, the next course of action based on an e-mail, or the next step it figures out based on your data. Luckily, youll have a trusty assistant (who may be supporting more people or providing deeper support) keeping a watchful eye.While the target customer is an assistant, Esper isntjustfor them the products can be used, in the companys words, byany professional who wants to manage their schedule more effectively.As one of the assistant-less masses, I tried out TimeStats for myself. The first pass was a little unsatisfying, probably because I create didnt enoughdistinct event categories. But even so, its good to be reminded that I do too many damn meetings. And Im intrigued enough by the idea that Im going to keep tweaking those categories.Update: An earlier version of this post incorrectly stated that Joe Lonsdale was one of the founders at Esper. Lee says that while Lonsdale helped early on to incubate Esper at Formation 8, he was not a founder.