The wildvaluation swings of Bitcoin are something of a sideshow when compared withthe potential of the underlying blockchain engine. Focusing on the utility of thisdistributed, consensus-based technology is exactly what London-based startup Everledger is doing.The very early stage startup which was founder and CEO Leanne Kemps idea a mere three months ago before she was encouraged tobring it tothe London-basedBarclays TechStars fintech accelerator and set up as a business  is using the Bitcoinblockchain as aplatform for provenance and combating insurance fraud.Its starting withdiamonds, with a view to expanding into all sorts of luxury goods  such as high end watches, designer handbags and fine art  so basically high value items whose provenance might otherwise be reliant on paper certificates and receiptsthatcan easily be lost or tampered with. The blockchain isa distributed public ledger for tracking provenance in a way thatsmore robust and accessible than a paper trail.Of course individual diamonds cant be immutably connected to that immutable digital ledger  given there is always the possibility for stones to be cut or reshaped, and for serialized IDs to be ground off. But Everledger digitizesa hostof data point about eachstone to createa multi-layered digital fingerprint.If you have a 5 carat diamond, not only do we capture the serial number thats inscribed on the stone, but most diamonds are described with four Cs (the cut, the clarity etc). We taken not only those four Cs, we then take the 40 metadata points that make up the diamond. The laboratory houses inspect the stone, they effectively digitize each of those diamonds All of the angles and the cuts and the pavilions and all of the crown. And we take all of that, as well as the serial number, as well as the four Cs, and we put all that into the blockchain, says Kemp.She alsopoints out that cutting diamonds results in wastage and lost value so theres a natural economic disincentive for fraudsters todo that.The perfect use case for the blockchain is most definitely when there is an immutable ID on a device that can not be changed and it is sitting within an immutable ledger. And that is clearly within the world of IoT [Internet of Things]. Where you literally get the Intels of the world providing an immutable ID. And we see that, from an insurance perspective, coming down the line quite quickly,she adds.Interesting uses of blockchain technology outside the cryptocurrency spacecontinuecropping up. Justthis month Ascribe raised $2 millionin seed funding for its notary and timestamp for intellectual property and creative works, which uses the blockchain to store and sign digitalimages  creating an immutable record of their existence and enabling copyright to be enforced on digital artworks.While back at Disrupt New Yorks startup battlefield in May there wasShoCard, a digital identity startup whichstores personal identity credentials on the blockchain. (They werent the first to see potential for blockchain-based passports either.)Kemp, a serial entrepreneur who hails from Australia originally, has a background working in insurance and the jewelry industry, as well as with emerging technologies such as RFID. It was hercombination of industry expertise and exposure  talking with insurers about the huge problem offraud  plus a sense for the potential of a nascenttech likeblockchain which ultimatelysparked the idea for Everledger. She presented heridea atan Aviva hackathon last year, where itwon an innovation award and caught the eye of TechStars MD who persuaded her to get a team together and incorporate as a business.The team now includes a blockchain guy  Gaurav Rana, as CTO  and a data and API specialist, and has been head down building the tech stack and the business case for the past three months  culminating in demo day last week, which resulted in another kind of stack (investors business cards) ending up Kemps possession. Its nuts. There was a lot Ive just put them in a great big pile, taking my pace and my time, making sure that we have the right investors.Im not a payments person. Im not in the banking space. But when I saw what the fundamental principles of the blockchain provided it was just patently obvious to me that would make sense around reducing fraud related instances of valuables, she adds. This make a lot of sense to me. Just at a very basic level, you have an immutable ledger thats distributed. Diamonds are a global problem, in terms of document tampering and fraud, and we know in London its a $2 billion problem, so this can work. Lets make this work!At this point Everledger is focusing on gettingdiamond pipeline producers and major insurers adopting its system. Kemp describes this slice asa very consolidated market, withhundreds not thousands of companies in play, so she argues its quite achievable to elbow inand startgenerating revenue with its blockchain-based diamond fraud detection system. Albeit, theres obviously a network effect forEverledger to prove its worth  based on getting enough stones on its books.It now has some 280,000 diamonds digitized and embedded into the blockchain (its working its way through 850,000 diamonds submitted so far for adding to itsledger), and has all the major certificate houses signed up, plus four of the major London-based insurancecompanies. Kemp says its indiscussions with police, Interpol and Europol who are also interested in what the tech offers  from a crime detection and prevention point of view.The incentive forinsurance companies to get involved is toreduce claims fraud and also recoup costs associated with paying out claims.Theres reallyinteresting economics around that because the insurance companies as they pay out these claims are actually the rightful owner of these diamonds because they paid the claim out and the title of that diamond ultimately sits with the insurance company, says Kemp.So its actually the insurance companys property that we will recover.Point is: diamonds dont depreciate in value; quite the opposite. So a stolen stone thats recovered even years hence would still be an asset to its insurance company owner.Thats one of the big use cases thats coming out that were working with the insurance industry now, adds Kemp.A third target is big online retail marketplaces where people might try to offload stolen or counterfeit goods.Our play is actually around the police, around insurance companies, and having a line of sight and an eye  whether thats across open portal data with open source intelligence, or whether its on direct API feeds  with really large houses like eBay and Amazon, Rakuten, these kind of portal sites where people think theyre outsmarting the insurance companies by putting their goods online to sell it.We can just do these as a one-on-one insurance play, or ultimately if we really want to stamp out the entire issue around diamonds then of course theres a consensus around having all the insurers be a part of what were doing. But were not reliant upon every insurer, and were not reliance upon every diamond manufacturer. It can be as narrow as key select people.For us its about this longevity, of being in the market with enough transparency to have enough for people to understand hang on a minute youre going to be caught, right? The world has existed in silos, theres a silo in eBay, theres a silo in Amazon, theres a silo in insurance companies. We bring this together so theres visibility, she adds.Were making it visible to two important people in the ecosystem: were making it visible to the police, and let them go and chase down the baddies and investigate based on our data; and were making it visible to the insurance companies so they know they either can pay the claim or not pay the claim, based on reasonable doubt or not reasonable doubt.Although diamonds are its starting point,Everledger is not intending to stick solelywithdiamonds forever. As noted earlier, its grand aim is to be aprovenance platform for a variety of high value and luxury goods. Here again, this push is aimed atmeshing with the needs of online ecommerce marketplaceswhich are under pressure tospotcounterfeit or stolen goods being hawkedon their own platforms.These are very real problems in the luxury goods industry. In the first instance around diamonds we could turnaround and provide API services to eBay and Amazon to say actually youve got a seller thats just listed a diamond thats actually been involved in an insurance claim over the last six months in London. And so therefore it becomes an onus on either eBay or an alert system somehow to say this at one point was claimed as a stolen or a lost diamond, she adds.Its also aiming to offer a consumer facing digital vaultappwhere owners of luxury goods can create a record of ownership themselves  perhaps incentivized to do so by insurance companies offering lower premiums to peoplewho self-certify their valuables in this way.This app is planned for release aroundSeptember or October.We do want to play inside that consumer space, with the certificates, underpin some transparency around diamonds for marketplaces and those sorts of things, she says. We see what were doing just beyond diamonds. Diamonds, watches, art, Louis Vuitton handbags, things that are identified through some kind of serialized way of identifying that product. Again its not ever going to be 100 per cent immutable, because theyre not smart devices, were working in a world of dumb objects. The utopic world with the blockchain is IoT, theres no doubt about that.