Pattern, a year-old, Redwood City, Ca.-based startup, wants to become a kind ofexternal brain that lightens the load of managing customer relationships for salespeople. Felicis Ventures, SoftTech VC, and First Round Capital have just furnished the company with $2.5 million in seed fundingtoward that end, too.You can kind of see why, given the problem Pattern is trying to tackle.According to founders Derek Draper, Zack Moy, and Josh Valdez  all ex-Googlers  asalespersons book of business produces more than5,000 signals in any given month, creating information overload. Thetools that many use can exacerbate the problem, too. Think email,calendar, spreadsheets, to-do lists, their CRM system, their phone.Draper, Moy, and Valdez, who are currently running the company with five other former colleagues from Google, say they were long ago inspired to fix the problem. In fact, Draper and Valdez met at Wildfire, a social media marketing company that sold to Google in 2012. They say that there, they invested more heavily in sales operations than do most companies, including coming up with fresh tech to help Wildfires sales teamuse their time more efficiently.People think of salespeople as lower class citizens, says Draper, who was a VP of sales and client services at Wildfire and is now Patterns CEO. People dont realize how hard it is. Reps are under constant pressure to meet quotas and keep management informed, and we felt like technology should lighten their load and make them smarter, not add to what they have to manage.Though creating new technology wasnt their full time job at Wildfire or at Google, it is now, and the online workspace thattheyvecreated seems interesting.For example, a salesperson can inject notes into a particular field on the platform that will prime what questions she or heshould ask a potential customerafter which the salesperson caneasily set a reminder to follow up with that person or company.Patterns productivity suite also provides prompts that make following up with a contacteasy. Using a salespersonscontact list and other archived information, it will essentially create thank-you notes that can be fired off with the click off a tab. It will automatically confirm meetings ahead of time. Using some machine learning, it will also suggest to salespeople when they should be following up with a certain contact if its not already in their calendar to do so.Not last, Pattern will notice when people who you are working with dont exist in Salesforce and whether youd like to invite them, a feature that management seems to like particularly, says Draper.Of course, Pattern isnt the only company trying to make salespeople more efficient and to prevent them from dropping the ball. At least 300 startupsare trying to tackle someform of sales productivity.Draper acknowledges that Pattern has some steep competition, but he also says that feedback from the 70 active users that have been helping Pattern shape its product has been great. (Early users include the cloud-monitoring service DataDog and the customer service platform Zendesk.)Pattern, which plans to sell to mid-size businesses, is also targeting a highly fragmented market.Here, too, Draper seems undaunted, noting that Wildfire alsoserved the mid-market and that his team has plenty of experience building highly functional sales cycles for that space. More specifically, the company is taking a bottom-ups approach, hopingthatend users will turn on its product in large enough numbers that management will be compelled to take a look. (As for pricing, it isnt ready to disclose that just yet.)For those who may be interested in learning more,the company is allowing access to the platform on a first-come, first-served basis. Its offering the first 100 TechCrunch readers who sign up priority access, too. Click here for more information.