
Alongside Unicorn and Grexit/Brexit, Fintech was considered one of thetop 10 financial buzzwordsof 2015.But fintech isnt a newcomer to this list  and for good reason.For a few years now, fintech companies havemoved from the margins to the mainstream. They arebuilding tech-enabled financial platforms that serve consumers better than traditional financial institutions, and consumers are responding.As the CEO and co-founder of CommonBond, a fintech lender that to date has focused on student lending, Ive seen thatevolutionfirsthand. And from my vantage point, I see a fundamental shift in finance happening right under everyones noses.Here are my top four predictions of where I think fintech is going this year (and beyond):Capital will get more discerningand bunch up around the bestplayers.Fintech companies that in the past year would have begun with a big idea, a few buzzwords and a PowerPoint deck will not get funded thisyear, or beyond. Capital willstill be available,just not to everyone. Only the companies that have developed proven productsand built brands that resonate with consumers will attract the capital they need. These are the companies with more proven platforms  the ones youve heard of.Of the emerging fintech lenders, the big ones will get stronger and the small ones will attach to the larger players or simply peter out. Well move from a world that thinks about the top 200 fintechlenders to a world that only cares about the top 20  and the market will be healthier for it.A large tech company will make a big move into finance.I cant tell you who it will be, but I can tell you that 2016 is about the right time for this to happen. Finance touches everyones life, technology in traditional finance has been slow to modernize and consumers are more open to tech solving their finance-related pain points than ever before.According toThe Millennial Disruption Index, 73 percent of millennials would be more excited about a new offering in financial services from companies such as Google, Amazon, Apple, PayPal or Square than from their own bank.Tech companies are looking for ways to grow and play an increasingly important role in their customers lives. Facebook has a ton of data on its users, as does Google. Apple has a ton of cash  more than $200 billion, to be exact. Thats enough capital to generate more than $2 trillion in assets through a lending business.To put this in perspective, JP Morgan Chase, the largest bank in America by assets, has $2.6 trillion in assets.Capital and data are the backbone of finance, and now big tech companies have them big time. They also havethe technology, to boot. (Speaking of boots, if I were a bank, Id probably be shaking in them a bit more this year.)Big banks will continue to lose ground to, or partner with, fintech players. Thats to be expected, but what might surprise some is that its all but inevitable now. As with the self-driving car, the technology is there, and the market forces are too strong for it not to happen.Millennials represent the largest generation in America, at more than 90 million people. They are young and have increasing purchasing power. Seventy-one percent of them would rather see their dentist than deal with their bank. Thirty-three percent of them expect never to use a bank, and instead expect that tech firms will be their financial saviors.And the market is responding. A new crop of companies across lending, wealth management and payments  think Prosper, Betterment, Affirm  are coming to market and gaining share quickly, most likely because these newer companies are more responsive to consumers needs than traditional financial companies.JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon also understands this especially well, as evidenced by the banks recent partnership with OnDeck Capital to better serve small business owners,and JP Morgans recent purchase of $1 billion of Lending Club loans to add to its balance sheet.The great unbundling will shift to the great rebundling.One of my favorite graphics comes fromCB Insightsand depicts a screenshot of the Wells Fargo homepage, with an overlay of the logos of various fintech companies that are disrupting different parts of traditional finances business  from student loans to wealth management to insurance.This is whathas come to be known as the unbundling of banking, and we have seen this take shape over the past few years as fintech startups have emerged to disrupt banking.But I see this great unbundling transforming into the great rebundling, with technology playing an integral role. While fintech companies usually start by excelling in a single asset class or product, some of us have set out to serve the customer across many, if not all, of the customers financial needs.As fintech companies scale not just through market penetration in their existing products but by horizontal expansion into new products, we will see this rebundling if executed well  serve customers better than traditional finance has been able to. And the reason for this in large part will be better technology that enables seamless experiences between products and services, as well as a strong focus on the customer.Fintech is moving fast, and the pace will only accelerate. This is the year that the best ones will get stronger and the market, including consumers, will be better for it.Perhaps by the end of 2016, fintech will no longer be a buzzword at all.