Chatbots, Live video, and VR technology are all on the docket for Facebooks F8 developer conference, and you can watch the livestream here at 9:30am PST with Mark Zuckerbergs keynote starting at 10am. Therell also be more streamed sessions all day today.Heres the full schedule for the stream:Day 1 (April 12)Day 2 (April 13)While Facebook is tight-lipped about exactly what will be revealed today, weve heard from sources some confirmed launches as well as a few rumors. Heres a few things to watch for:Messenger Chatbot APIs  Facebook will launch tools allowing developers to build automated response agents for Messenger, multiple sources confirm. This follows our scoop from February that Facebook had given some developers a Chat SDK for building bots. These bots could replace 1-800 numbers, providing customer service over chat, and use artificial intelligence to deliver ecommerce, news, content, and other experiences.Live Chat APIs  Even if youre talking to a human customer support agent, Facebook wants you to do it on Messenger rather than a business website. Multiple source confirm Facebook will release developer tools for building Message Us buttons for web and mobile sites that push users to Messenger where businesses can use enterprise software to efficiently respond to requests.News Over Messenger  Facebook plans to allow news publishers to distribute content through Messenger, Marketing Land first reported and weve since had sources confirm.Marketing Over Messenger Facebook plans to unlock advertising opportunities in Messenger in Q2 2016, according to a presentation sent by Facebook to a top brand on its platform. Though we havent confirmed this will launch at F8, Facebook does have a breakout session at the conference dedicated to Messenger: Connecting People And Businesses hosted by Frerke-Malt Feller, part of the Messenger Monetization teamwhich is interesting because Messenger has never been monetized directly.Live Video Production Tools  Facebook has been working on ways for media publishers to use professional video editing software to manage and enhance Live videos, weve heard. That could include ways for publishers to switch between different video feeds or camera angles while maintaining a single Live broadcast. Facebook could also allow publishers to use professional videography hardware, The New York Times reported.Its already paying publishers to broadcast on Live instead of their own sites.New Ways To Deliver Ads Weve heard talk that Facebook will announce partnerships to make it easier for small businesses to create video ads.VR Capture Technology  Facebooks F8 guide cryptically includes a session on VR Capture Technology about The hardware and software engineering required to bring this new and exciting technology to life. Though its unclear what tech its talking about exactly, the session is led by Brian Cabral who works on advanced computational imaging projects for Facebook and Oculus. In September Facebook revealed a new way to shrink the size of 360 video files by using equirectangular mapping.