Its a tale as old as time. Internet video creator/vlogger garners support after accusing $260 billion social media giant of using unethical practices and earns a seemingly official reply comment on his blog post from a mid-levelemployee at said company. Ah yes.Wait, no. What? Well heres what happened:I made(like 10% of) this.  Comic//Anthony ClarkHank Green, a YouTube creator who creates quirky, iconically vloggy videos for a number of channels, wrote a pretty seethingblog post yesterday titled Theft, Lies, and Facebook Video, in which he accused the service of using dishonestpractices that stifled video creators and produced a pretty unsavory environment for creatives.there are a few things that make me wary, not of their ability to grow my business, but of whether they give a shit about creators, which is actually pretty important to me.His argument centered on three points, namely that Facebook was routinely cheating, lying and stealing to maintain its upper hand in the online video streaming world, tactics that have led them to reportedly surpass YouTube and become the largest video-streaming service on the web.They cheat. Green alleged (and supportedwith data) that Facebook had been significantly suppressing YouTube links in favor of emphasizing natively uploaded videos.They lie. Autoplay ads canmake stats on how many views your video got pretty inflated, Green asserted. With Facebooks definition of a view being confined to any user that allows a video to play for three seconds (YouTubes definition is generally 30 seconds, for comparison), Green said video creators are very likely to see an inflated number of viewers who may actually have barely seen their clip.They steal. What Green said bothered him most was Facebooks lackluster commitment to ensuring that copyrighted material was protected on the site. He pointed to a rather damning statistic that 725 of the top 1,000 most popular vides of Q1 2015 were re-uploads of content from other sources. Green further lambasts the company for not having any safeguards in place to protect video uploaders, and says that even if they are working on something it wont be able to compare with YouTubes Content ID system.But even if they do have a system, it wont function as well as Content ID. Content ID works so well largely because YouTube is good at monetizing content. So, instead of taking a video down, a copyright holder can claim the video and receive revenue from it.Green also went on to list a number of Youtube creators whose content had been infringed on.Destin Sandlin, who runs the Smarter Every Day channel released a video on the topic after a video of his was ripped and re-uploaded by a subsidiary of Bauer Media Group and received 17 million views on their Facebook page.Enter MattPakes, a Product Manager at Facebook, who responded on behalf of the company to Greens post.In response to the issue of stifling non-native video ads, Pakes acknowledged that the site did indeed prioritize videos uploaded natively, but that Facebookdoes so becauseauto-play simplifiesthe viewing experience of those who watcha ton of videos on the site.Pakes also defended the manner in which Facebook defined a view.If you have stayed on a video for at least three seconds, it signals to us that you are not simply scrolling through feed and youve shown intent to watch that video. However, we also provide detailed metrics and tools to help Pages better understand how people respond to their videos on Facebook.Finally, he emphasized that Facebook did indeed take intellectual property rights very seriously, and that they were utilizing theAudible Magic content recognition system to identify videos that were infringing on copyright.While this probablyjust seemed like alittle exercise in public relations for Facebook, Green raised some seriously valid flaws inhow Facebook treats those who create the video content thats pushed out on the site. These are some things that they have to address, because honestly Facebook videos influence isgrowing so rapidly that itcant afford to slow down.First off, Greenspoint about Facebook emphasizing its native videos over YouTubes videos is definitely the least important, and while it sucks for YouTube mainstays, its obvious that Facebook is looking to majorly build their online video presence so its kind of difficultto blame them for this.However, it is way easier to criticize them for giving such a light definition of a view,one that really is just arbitrarily inflating figures for Facebook without giving video creators any useful feedback. Pakesseems to attempt to minimize the importance of view count in his response, but its undoubtedly one of the most critical outward-facing metrics and a fairly universal measure of online video success.Lets be real, though. Counting three seconds as a view on a video that already auto-plays is most certainly bullshit. It generally takes a second or two for me to even process whats happeningon thenewsfeed because auto-playing videos still feel fairlyinvasive. Anypreset number of seconds thatthey pick isnt going to be perfect, but right now theyre pushing the bounds of reasonable analytics.These points are all nit-picky whencompared to the blaring failure that is Facebooks efforts to protectintellectual property in their videos. Green fairly referencesthe struggles that YouTube had in protecting content producers in the early days of the service, but make no mistake about it, the Facebook of 2015 should be held to way higher standards than the YouTube of 2007. Audible Magic is clearly not exercising the same results as YouTubes Content ID andthis is where Greens criticisms are most valid.Pakes said Facebook is exploring further solutions, to better protect IP owners rights but that probably wouldve been a good thing to nail down before they launched features like auto-play that were clearly going to increase their video views exponentially.In the end, its clear Facebook video is successful at racking up views (whatever that means), but its also apparent that the companys mantra of move fast and break things is going to end up pissing off a lot of the videocreators thattheyll likely soon be relying on to grow their service further.