Facebook says it now gets around8 billion video views on its platform each day, and the social network hasmade no secret of its plans to make it an even bigger part of the experience in the future.Now Facebookis testing a new click for more feature for desktop users of the service. Currently, clicking not just on the words  which appear in a place where they will be hard to miss, centered in the bottom, just above the video controls  but anywhere on the video will take users to a new window. There, they get an enlarged view of the video on a darkened screen, along with a carousel of related videos interspersed with video ads. You can choose what to watch, or let them autoplay.Facebook has confirmed to us that this is the web-based test it alluded to when it announced in October that it would start to test new video experiences.(The October announcement was mainly focused around new video features in iOS, as well as a recap of some of the other work Facebook had been doing in 360 immersive video and live videos. Yesterday it announced that it would be expanding thatlive, Periscope-style video to all Verified Pages).Facebooks interest in growing video (possibly sometimes by hook or by crook) seems to be two-fold: first, it will increase engagement and time spent on the platform. Whereas people today may dip in just to check on whats new in their feed or what their friends are posting, having more videos might help them linger for longer, or become a reason to visit Facebook in itself (more on that below).The other reason for bringing in more video inventory and video audience is to drive more premium video-based advertising. As more big brands turn to digital platforms to promote their products, they will be looking for mass-marketvideo sites either to buy alongside traditional TV or to replace it altogether. This is something that online video leader YouTube has also realised and so it is working hard to mimic more TV features in its own interface.Others have spotted the same click for more call to action on videos. Jason Stein, who also noticed the feature appear a few weeks ago, makes an interesting guess that the format you see when you click through to the bigger video experience could be Facebooks template for afutureApple TV app.This would make sense, since the Facebook content youre most likely to want to seeon your TV will be Facebooks video content. It could also potentially be something that Facebook would repurpose for a Facebook experience on its Oculus Rift orother virtual reality headsets.Its also in keeping with another test the company is doing, of a dedicated video feed where content is divided up into channels based around areas such as what friends are sharing, specific subjects or Pages youve liked.But just because people are spotting Click for more  and possibly clicking for more, as Facebook suggests they do doesnt mean that everyone is happy.There are alreadytwothreads in Facebooks support forums asking how to disable the feature. (No replies from Facebook, however.)One criticism is that the action of clicking on a video used to pause it on Facebook  meaning someusers arefinding themselves seeing the new view without asking for it. (This is reminiscent of how Twitter moved its Moments tab to where the Mentions tab used to be, leading to a lot more clicks onthenew feature .)From my own experience, I only see click for more on the desktop web version of Facebook. On my iOS app, if you click on the video,you are automatically directedto thedarkened screen and an infinite scroll ofads and other videos.On mobile web, its the most pared-downexperience of all (and maybe the nicest for being less noisy): just the video, nothing else.This is not the first time that Facebook has made enhancements specifically on desktop increase video viewing for those who access it. Earlier this year, it started showing a Watch Later button for some users.