About six months ago, we reported thatFacebook was working on a new product aimed squarely at the enterprise market under the working title, FB@Work. Nowthat product is officially coming to light: today the company is launching new iOS and Android apps called Facebook At Work, along with a version of Facebook at Work accessible viaits main website, which will let businesses create their own social networks amongst their employeesthat arebuilt to look and act like Facebook itself.(Facebook At Work is now available for download on iOS, and well update with a links to the Andriod version once its live, though both are usable via a limited pilot to start with. Check out Joshsfollow-up story for more screenshots, details on privacy, and analysis.)Employers can create separate log-ins for employees to use with their Work accounts, or users can link these up with their other profiles to access everything in one place.The product puts Facebook head-to-head with the likes of Microsofts Yammer, Slack, Convo, Socialcast, and a huge number of others who are trying to tackle the enterprise social network space. Even LinkedIn conveniently let drop last night that it too was looking at building a product for coworkers to communicate and share content(but not chat, as a LinkedIn spokesperson tellsme).Not all of these have been a hit:Lars Rasmussen, the engineering director at Facebook who is heading up the project, had in his past once headed up one of the failed efforts at an enterprise social network, Google Wave.Facebook is positioning todays debutas a bold first step.Were putting the app into the app stores so thatwe can begin testingthe product,Rasmussen said in an interview.In fact, Facebook has already been running tests of the service with a very small set ofexternal businesses around the world, Rasmussen says; this is the next step in that process. The aim initially will be companies with 100 or more employees. (In fact, the existing Facebook Groups product is already used by smaller organisations.)Because of the early nature of the product, there are a lot of questions in the air. The company has yet to work out, for example, howit might price the app, whether itwillmonetise the service through ads, or how third-party apps will work.Fornow, Facebook Platform has been disabled on the Work product, meaning no ads or apps.Thatmay not always be the case (It could be paid, he says).Thisbeta state of affairs is in some ways ironic.Rasmussen says that Facebook has effectively been working on Workfor the last 10 years, because it isbased on whatFacebooks own employees have been using to communicate with each other,pass on news, plan meetings and share documents. That long-time use and Facebooks familiarity to all of us arepart of what makes Facebook confident that it can carve a place for itself in a market that already is very crowded.Facebook at Works strengthis that weve spent tenyears and incorporated feedback from 1 billion active users, he says. All of that is embeddednow in the same product but adapted for different use cases.And its actually used by staff.When Mark [Zuckerberg, the CEO] makes an announcementhe just posts it onFacebook at Work, Rasmussen says.In fact, Facebooks own popularity could be Facebook at Works biggest advantage. A lot of efforts in offices to get employees to collaborate more with each other have been stymied because employees dont want to use the software. Its yet another new thing to learn and doesnt feel essential.A lot of messaging apps (Microsofts Yammer being one of the notably early movers) have tried to tap into consumerization  or getting enterprise apps to look and feel more like consumer apps  to encourage usage. In that vein, Facebook at Work, built essentially on Facebook itself,will bearguably the closest of all to an authentic consumer social experience.Heres a run-down of some of the key points about the service, as told to me by Rasmussen:Pricing. As noted above, no firm details on this yet but consider that most of the other apps offer tiers of pricing. By making this free, Facebook could potentially drive a lot more users to its wider network. The fact that Rasmussenwould not rule out advertising as an option down the road to me suggests that Facebook couldconsider tiers of its own where some businesses maypay for the productand have itad-free, while others might take it free and get ads. Again, most enterprise apps are based on a paid model so its probably more likely to remain the case here too. Plus this would give Facebook another revenue stream beyond ads and app-related payments.How it will work. Facebook wouldnt show me a demo ahead of the launch but this is how Rasmussen describes it: When an employer adopts Facebook at Work,they can construct it with a set of new accounts. Userscan then link theirwork and personal accounts together so that they are logged into both at the same time.This would work much like Groups and public profiles do today. On mobile, you would have two mobile apps running at the same time, he adds. Evenif the employee chooses to link there is no crossover. The content stays entirely within your personal or work Facebook.Whats not there/integrations. You can share documents today but for now there will be no in-app editing currently.Again, that leaves this open as something that will come down the line. Theset of features are identitcal to personal Facebook, but just to get it out sooner weve disabled the Platform so the APIsthat thirdparties work with are not there, but we are keen to turn it back on. Hopefully in the future other enterprise tools will integrate with Facebook at Work.Backstory on development. Back in June Id deducedthat Facebook at Work was connected with Rasmussens work in London, but what I found out from sources after that reportwas that this was more than casual: this was his baby.Rasmussen is not shy to bring this up himself (which I have to admit is refreshing to hear, because people do like to posture a lot in tech, dont they).Ican say that the challenges of making work more efficient is something that has been on my mind for a long time, and I come to it with a lot of passion and the knowledge of a failure of doing this at a different company, he says, referring of course to Google Wave.I thought that maybe Facebooks experience was what was needed. When Iworked on search here it was always atthe back of my mind, so later I picked back up on that idea, joined in on the conversation.The caveat to all this, however, is one that Facebook will have to continue to grapple with, all the more so as it continues to grow.Canvassing opinion on a Facebook at Work product, I heard not only once people shy away from the idea, concerned with the thought of Facebook owning your data and the potential lack of confidentiality resulting from it.That can be frustrating when related to pictures of you too drunk when you were in college, or frankly scary looking when you were in high school, but potentially very costly and illegal if proprietary work information is involved.