Twitters firehose of tweets has long been offered as a goldmine for businesses trying to understand how to improve or market their products, and now Facebook will allow privacy-safe peeks at its treasure trove, too. Today Facebook launched a new insights product called Topic Datain the U.S. and U.K. with the help of brand analytics leader DataSift.Facebook explains that Topic data shows marketers what audiences are saying on Facebook about events, brands, subjects and activities.For example, A business selling a hair de-frizzing product can see demographics on the people talking about humiditys effects on their hair.On days when everyones posting status updates about how frizzy their hair is, a brand could step up its ad spend knowing its the perfect time to reach potential customers. Sentiment, location, volume of mentions and words often mentioned alongside a brand can be pulled, too.Because much of Facebooks data is private, unlike Twitter, offering Topic Data in a privacy-safe way is a top concern and might explain why Facebook waited so long to offer this functionality that brands have been begging for. To ensure personal info isnt divulged, Topic Data is aggregated and anonymized, so brands cant know or piece together exactly who said what. I asked Facebook and it confirmed that certain queries thatmight pull up personally identifiable data like home addresses will be banned. At least 100 different users have to match a query for it to be allowed.Still, the idea that their private status messages to friends will fuel better ad targeting may irk some Facebook users. Theres no opt-out, and the only way to keep data totally private is to either set posts to be visible to only me or not post at all.To be clear, this isnt a brand monitoring tool. Its not designed to let companies see every mention of their business and try to respond. That wouldnt work since data isanonymized any way.Instead, Facebooks product manager Matt Idema tells me marketers issue specific queries about whats being shared, what peoples opinions are about their brand, what are the trends, and anything that is top of mind.Brands issue the forward-looking queries through a third-party analytics provider that submits them to DataSift, which can run them against Facebooks data. DataSift hands the analytics tool back anonymized statistical data about posts that match the query since it was issued that can be formed into charts and insights, or bundled with social analytics from other networks.Moreexamples Facebook gives for how to use Topic Data include:Marketers cant instantly turn a querys results into ad targeting, but can set their ads to appear to people in similar demographics. Beyond just buying ads, Facebook hopes brands will discover things people want that they dont make yet, and move to develop these new products.When Twitter opened its firehose to this kind of analysis a few years back, it spawned an entire ecosystem of data interpreters, including Adobe Social, Brandwatch, Crimson Hexagon, Socialmetrixand DataSift itself, which was one of only a few companies allowed to sell the full Twitter firehose at one point.Facebook will authorize a limited, undisclosed list of tools its already working with to access its firehose through DataSift.For now its only available to companies in the U.S. and U.K.; international expansion is expected eventually. Privacy-sensitive Facebook has always trailed Twitter when it comes to monetizing data for business audiences so todays Topic Data news is a big step forward and a fascinating evolution of their thinking said analytics company Brandwatchs CMO Will McInnes. For the world of social intelligence, this is huge news.Surprisingly enough, Facebook is giving DataSift the keys to the castle for free in exchange for helping it rapidly break into the market with the startups tech and relationships. DataSift will charge analytics firms a fee for queries, who will then mark up the price and sell it to brands.If brands find the data valuable, it could draw them and their ad budgets closer to Facebook. Until now, Facebook has largely been a black box inside a walled garden. Marketers didnt know what was said inside. DataSift and Topic Data let them peer inside.