Facebook connects 1.5 billionpeople all over the world, but for the blind and visually impaired, it can be difficult to gain access to what has become a vast platform for connectivity. Thats where Facebooks accessibility team, led by Jeff Wieland, comes in. The sole purpose of the accessibility team is to help people with disabilities have a seamless experience on Facebook, and ultimately help the social network achieve its mission of connecting the world.Right now, blind and visually impaired people who have access to screen readers  tools used to identify whats displayed on a screen  can listen to what people are writing on Facebook, but theres currently no way tofigure outwhats going on in the millions of photos shared on Facebookevery day.You just think about how much of your news feed is visual  and is probably most of it  and so often people will make a comment about a photo or theyll say something about it when they post it, but they wont really tell you what is in the photo, Matt King, Facebooks first blind engineer, told TechCrunch. So for somebody like myself, it can be really like, Ok, whats going on here? Whats the discussion all about?Thats why Facebook is currently working on an artificial intelligence-basedobject recognition tool to help blind users get an idea of whats in all of the photos people shareon Facebook.King, who started at the company just three months ago, recently showed me how he uses a screen reader to navigate Facebook.My view of the page is totally sequential, King explained to me. I cant see the whole thing at one time. I see a little piece.As he scrolled down the page, the screen reader would tell King that hes at a list of six items, which referred to the number of notifications he had at the time. It also told him when he reached a convo box, which signaled to him that he could interact with that element and leave a comment.King eventuallyscrolled to a friends post that featured text and a photo. His friend, Anne, wrote, Ready for picture day of first grade accompanied with a photo.Thanks to the object recognition technology Facebook is prototyping, King heard:This image may contain, colon, one or more people. Child. Without it, all King wouldve known was that Anne wrote, Ready for picture day of first grade, and that she posted a photo  but nothing about what was in the photo. For another photo, the tool told him:This image may contain colon nature, outdoor, cloud, foliage, grass, tree.In the photo gallery below, youll see what a blind person hears read aloud when theyre using a screen reader to browse photos on Facebook.This might not be 100 percent yet, but even if its just halfway there, the level of engagement thats possible, the amount of enjoyment I can get  thats like going from zero percent to at least 50 percent of what you might get, King said. Thats a huge jump, and its only going to get better from here. I personally find Facebookswillingness to invest in ways like that just really powerful and exciting, and just one more way to make connecting people with disabilities a great experience.Unfortunately,theres a bit of a learning curve with screen readers. Thats why one of Kings goals is to make that on-boarding process a lot simpler for the blind and visually impaired people. He wants to make it as easy for people with disabilities to access web connectivity as it is for people who dont have disabilities, regardless of where they are in the world.We start thinking of access to information and information technology almost like a human right, King said. I mean, its the gateway to employment, its the gateway to opportunity of all different kinds  participating in your government and everything. So when we can flatten that on-ramp, I see that as the ultimate goal in accessibility and I think that Facebook is really uniquely positioned to help do that. So that gets me, just really excited. Its a way of giving dignity to every person with a disability in the world by helping them get connected to everybody else.Ideally, the team hopes to release this product by end of the year to one platform  either web or iOS  and allow people to opt in to experience it.We want to make sure that the concepts we deliver, we feel strongly that they are in the photo, Wieland said. We dont want to get that wrong. So we definitely need to continue investing in AI to make this great. Were optimistic we can ship this in the relatively short term.