Say goodbye to calls from unknown numbers. Facebooks newest app Hello instantly matches phone numbers of incoming and outgoing calls to Facebook profiles to show you info about who youre talking to, block calls from commonly blocked numbers, and search for businesses to call. Today, Hello is rolling out for public testing in the US, Brazil, and Nigeria, but the catch is that its Android-only since iOS wont let apps interact with phone calls.Hellos caller ID feature could clue you in to whether you want to pick up a call from a number you dont have saved by showing their name and profile picture  as long as they havent changed the default privacy setting that lets people search from using their phone number. Youll then see whatever info they share publicly or with you, like city, employer, website, and more.Technically, nothing is changing about Facebook privacy, though it does make personal info more readily visible. Hello essentially just runs an immediate Facebook graph search on any number you call or that calls you.Hello works and looks quite similar to caller ID app TrueCaller. Last month, Android Police spotted Facebook experimenting with an employees-only version off Hello codenamed Phone.Facebooks now officially testing the app publicly, as Hello Product Manager Andrea Vaccari says theres a big problem to solve. More than 1 billion phone calls are made in the US ever day he tells me. But the experience of the phone call hasnt evolved in a long time.Heres a short video from Facebook showing Hello in action:Hello was built over the last year by a lean team connected to Facebook Messenger, and led by Vaccari. He came to Facebook with the acquisition of his social location startup Glancee, and was the lead on one of the companys smartest recent product launches, Nearby Friends. This started as a small group of peopleThis started as a small group of people passionate about this opportunity. A few months ago we showed it to Mark [Zuckerberg] and he really liked it, and he gave us support to build it. David [Marcus] and the Messenger team were also very supportive. The app will continue development as part of Facebooks Creative Labs initiative for building standalone apps.Vaccari lays out a few big ways that phone calling is broken today. If you get a call from a number you dont know, you probably dont answer it he tells me. But it could be someone you want to talk to. Hello could solve this by giving you the context needed to intelligently decide whether this is someone you want to talk to or not. In that sense, Hello shares some DNA with Googles contextual computing system Google Now.Vaccari also laments thatAnyone with your number can ring you day or night and interrupt you. While other forms of communication often require our consent, a telemarketer can buy your number and call you incessantly without permission. Hellos blocking feature could return control to a numbers owner.Calling is really big. Its core to how people connect with each other, including family and close friends, but also businesses and colleagues Vaccari exclaims.Starting today, access to test the Hello app will start rolling out to Android users in the US, Brazil, and Nigeria. If the test goes well, more countries will be added in the coming weeks.Once downloaded, you sign in with Facebook, and give it permissions to sync your contacts with Facebook and interact with calls.After that, you can decide whether you want to actively use Hello, or let it just passively surface information about incoming calls.Here are Hellosfeatures:With permission, Hello will add profile pictures and other info to the contacts in your address book. It can also serve as an enhanced version of your phone book, with extra info about friends and others shown inline as you scroll through contacts.When a Hello user receives a call, Facebook will reference the phone number against its database. If the caller has left their Who can look you up using the phone number you provided? privacy setting to the default of Everyone or a more private category like Friends Of Friends that youre part of, it will show their name and profile picture.If they share other bio info with you, including current city, home town, employer, job title, education, website, or its their birthday today, youll see that too. All the information appears in a card overlaid on your screen while the phone is ringing, and you can swipe it away.If you use Hello as an address book or dialer app, youll also get info about people youre calling. When you punch in a number or call one of your contacts, you could get a heads up about who they are, or if they have a new job or moved to a new city.If you hang up on someone or end a call, youll see another card of info about them which shows if that caller has Facebook Messenger installed. From there, you can make a one-tap Voice Over IP call to them for free. This feature could be especially useful in developing nations where phone calls can be expensive. If someone calls you, you could just ignore the standard call, then VOIP call them right back at no charge. Combined with Hellos Caller ID, this could let people avoid paying to be bothered.In todays Facebook Q1 2015 earnings call, Zuckerberg revealed that Messenger now makes 10% of all global VOIP calls. He expects VOIP via Messenger to grow quickly since it sounds better than normal phones and is cheaper. Hello could propel that VOIP growth.Hello features a smart search bar at the top of its screen. From there you can easily search for your Facebook friends and contacts, but also anyone else, or businesses too. Facebook imports information like phone number, address, and open hours into the info card about businesses, and lets you call them with a single tap. Hello could pick away at some use cases of Yelp and Google in this way, since you can also just search Pizza to get the numbers of pizza places.Hello can tell you if an incoming call comes from a commonly blocked number. And if enough people have blocked it, Hello can prevent your phone from ringing or vibrating and just send the call straight to voicemail to save your sanity. This and many other settings can be tweaked inside Hello.In general, I dont find the Hello privacy defaults to be problematic, but there isnt a simple way to just opt out of having your info appear in the app.The best method is to go to your Who Can Find Me settings on Facebook, and narrow the group of people Who can look you up using the phone number you provided. This way your name and photo wont appear to strangers you call.To stay private without cutting off Hello entirely, consider switching who can find you by phone number to Friends Of Friends, and limiting the extra bio info you share publicly. This way only friends of friends will be able to see who you are when you call, and theyll only get your name, and profile picture.One thing Hello doesnt do is offer crowdsourced caller ID. Just because a bunch of other Hello users have someone listed under the same name doesnt mean youll see that name if they call you. They have to make that info available to you via Facebook.This is why I think Vaccari has become one of Facebooks best product people. Nearby Friends could have constantly broadcasted your location, but Vaccari wouldnt let it because it would have been creepy. Same for crowdsourced caller ID. After years of privacy stumbles, Facebook needs leaders like Vaccari that can combine respect for the user with smart design to make products that are both useful and safe.Vaccari saysFacebook isnt working on trying to monetize Hello right now. Still, there are plenty of opportunities.Directly, the business search feature opens the opportunity for Facebook to sell search result ads. Imagine searching for Pizza in Hello, and seeing an ad for a local pizza joint next to the listings for an Italian restaurant you Like on Facebook and a pizza place you have saved in your phone. Facebook temporarily tried something similar with search result ads for games and Pages in 2012.Hello could also potentially work with Facebooks upcoming business instant messaging feature, which will let you Messenger chat with ecommerce retailers youve just bought something from to make changes or get customer support.But at the very least, Hello could strengthen platform lock-in with Facebook as a whole. Thats how the companylooks to benefit from many of its new products. As long as they make you use Facebook more, youll see its News Feed ads, which earned it $3.59 billion in Q4 2014.Hello could boost Messenger texting and VOIP call usage, create links back to Facebook in users address books, encourage people to keep their bio info up to date, and serve as a constant reminder of the social network.Helloisnt Facebooks first swing at Android-only software, but the first was certainly a miss. Facebook launched its Android launcher Home two years ago, and watched it promptly flop. The main problem was that it tried to totally redefine how you used your phone, alteringyour lockscreen, app navigation, chat, and more.Luckily, Vaccari tells me his team learned from Homes mistakes. Hello is more of a targeted experience.Home was more integrated with your phone.Something Hello is doing right is that were not trying to reinvent the way you use your phone. Hello is very gentleit simply adds relevant information when it can.Overall, Hello offers sensible utility without being too pushy. It takes something smart but hard to do manually in real-time  Facebook searching the number of an incoming call  and makes it happen automatically. Just because its well built doesnt mean it will be wildly popular, though. But Facebook could eventually build the best parts of Hello into Messenger, the way it cherry picked features like stickers and filters from Messenger and Facebook Camera and put them in its main app.This is caller ID 2.0 Vaccari concludes.