The commercial drone market is starting to gain traction. There are some obvious markets for drone usage, including real estate marketing, media and inspections. FairFleet, a Munich, Germany-based startup thats launching out of private beta at Disrupt London today, brings together drone pilots andbusinesses for exactly these kinds of use cases.Allianz Digital Accelerator entrepreneur in residence Eldar Gizzatovfounded FairFleet. As an insurance company, Allianz has an obvious interest in drone technology for improving its claims process after disasters, so Gizzatov and his team, which also includes co-founders Alex Kostitsyn andDario Manns, looked at the insurance industry as its first use case.That was only the initial step, Gizzatov tells me. Its not a viable business if you just wait for a flood to happen. My goal was to have a venture that isnt too reliant on Allianz. Given this, its no surprise that theproject evolved into a broader marketplace.To get started on the platform as a pilot, FairFleet goes through a pretty rigorousvetting process. Pilots have to fill out an application form, which includes links to their portfolio of drone images and videos. After that, the company interviews pilots on the phone to get a better idea of the kind of jobs they can do and their risk profile. You dont want to hire a pilot, after all, who blatantly disregardsbasic drone safety rules.Clients who want to hire a pilot mark the location or area they want to get images of and FairFleet then contacts pilots in that area to provide a quote for the job. It then compiles a list of the top three pilots who want the job and have the right equipment and gives it to the client.Gizzatov tells me that Allianz alone has already sold close to 25,000 drone insurance policies in Germany, so there is clearly a supply of available drone pilots for FairFleet. He also believes demand is growing, though he acknowledged that the industry still has some work to do in educatingpotential users.Gizzatovpreviously worked on Rocket Internets peer-to-peer lending platform Lendico. Hetells me this gave him a background in building marketplaces, but he also counts his work on Autodesks ReCap reality capture and 3D-scanning project as an intern as an inspiration for this new venture.The focus for FairFleet is currently on construction, real estate marketing and mediainthe German market, where its relatively easy to get a commercial drone license.Starting today, FairFleet is open for business, and any pilot in Germany who wants to be on the platform can sign up, though there is no guarantee that FairFleet will be able to match them with jobs just yet.