Everlane, the fashion shopping site focused on selling high-quality apparel at lower prices than traditional designer retail, has today made the move to mobile. The company has now launched its first native smartphone application with the launch of Everlane on iOS, which allows shoppers to browse and buy its luxury itemsright from their phone.However, the app has a couple of interesting features, too, aimed at helping it find traction amid a variety of mobile shopping apps, as well as the clutter of all the other apps users today have installed on their phones.For starters, Everlane for iOS is also a weather app  yes, a weather app! Thats something that the company hopes will lead to daily app launches, as it will also make suggestions of what to wear alongside the details of the temperature and conditions.In addition, Everlane will encourage its most devoted shoppers to install and use the app firstover the website by featuring all of the companys early access launches exclusively withinthe app itself. These, by way of background, areEverlanes often hotly anticipated upcomingitems.Currently, that list includes things like itsPetra backpacks, wool wide-leg trousers, mercerized tees, and more. From the app, users can join the waitlist for these items, which tend to sell quickly. Explainsthe company: because we believe the app offers a superior shopping experience, we want to incentivize our best customers to use it.Thats actually an interesting trick, and one that isnt something commonly seen on mobile today. Many apps, including those outside the e-commerce space, just try to build mobile-friendly versions of their web experience. They dont seem to realize that  assuming theyre not a big company like Facebook, Google or Amazon  their app will likely onlyappeal to and beheavily used by their most zealous customers and fans. And that means they should consider catering to that audience in particular, rather than trying to build something for the mainstream user.Everlane not only seems to get that, its also actively encouraging its hard-core user base to switch to mobile over web.The app also features an improvedcheckout flow versus the mobile website thats streamlined and takes advantage of Apple Pay so customers can place an order with a touch.A good checkout experience is something that not all commerce sites have been able to achieve in recent years, often forcing shoppers through unwieldy flows that lead to consumers abandoning their carts. In fact, Everlane itself saw something of the same trend before todays launch.The company says that40 percent of traffic to its website was coming from mobile devices, but mobile was only accounting for 18 percent of its sales. While these figures are typical for online retailers, they do imply that Everlanes mobile visitors regularlyfailed to convert and actually become customers.Everlane, which is one of the growing number of vertically integrated direct-to-consumer brandson the market today, is best known for its radical transparency value system, which means it discloses the origin story of all its products, and discloses the cost structure, while also abandoning the usual markups associated with retail. Thats how its able to sell its higher-quality items for less than youd see in a traditional retail environment, the company says.Its also how thecompany is making wins on the hiring front, too  for example, Everlane recently hired Gaps former creative director, Rebekka Bay, as its head of design. Bay was attracted to the startups unique business model and was interested in working with a smaller brand and team, she said.While the company claims it has a passionate and loyal user base, it doesnt currentlydisclose its size, how many are repeats or other metrics that could detail how rapidly its growing. However, the company did say that its 2013 revenue was $12 million and its raised $9 million to date in venturefunding. And thoughits not sharing its 2014 revenue, its been reported that sales increased by 200 percent year-over-year.Now with a native mobile experience, the goal will be to see if Everlane will be able to capture themobile visitorswho arrivedbut didnt buy and turn them into customers, in order to grow those figures further.The iOS app is live now on iTunes here.