A fractious MWC16 panel on mobile ads brought several executives from the ad industry side plus ad behemoth Google face-to-face with what might be their worst nightmare: network-level mobile ad blocking.The dramaplayed out in front of a packedauditorium of conference delegates, with the ad industrys nemesis represented on stage byRoi Carthy, the tough talking CMO of mobile ad blocker startup Shine, (who also, for the record, used to be a TechCrunch contributor.)Earlier this monthShine signed its first European carrier, Three Group, which will be deploying its ad blocking tech in multiple markets  starting with the UK and Italy. (Its worth noting that Shines investors do includeLi Ka-shing, the chairman of Hutchinson Whampoa  which owns Three).The other only carrier partner Shinehas at this pointis Caribbean operator, Digicel, which rolled out its techlast year.Carthy wastaking no prisoners inhis public pitch. And was repeatedlycalled out by other panelists for using militaristic language to try toframethe debate. As well as seeking to draw attention to a still nascent startups (non-revenue-taking) business, Carthy was presumably hoping hisaggressive metaphors mightfire up a few more of the plentiful carriers in the MWC audience to sign up forhismobile ad blocking war.Lets be clear again that the reason that there are conversations now is by virtue of Shine being able to put a nuclear weapon at the end of the pipe, said Carthy, dismissing viewsfrom othersonthe panel that mobile ads mightnaturally evolveto be more engaging/less annoying without being forced to do so by the threat of being blocked.The session, which was entitled Mobile Advertising: Ad-Engagement and Ad-Blocking, sawad execs effectively arguingfor more time to comeup ways to market content to people on mobile in a way that they dont really hate. For example,Allie Kline, CMO of TechCrunchs parentAOL, pointed out its still pretty early days for the ad tech industry to grapplewith the explosive growthof mobile.It happened really quickly  in terms of the adoption, in terms of growth, where you have two-thirds of the worlds population with a mobile device in their pocket. That is a massive, massive thing to pivot on as an industry. And so while I think its absolutely an issue we need to address and spend time on, I also think we need to give it the time to do that. We need to be really careful about the thoughtfulness and investment we make to right-size how we fund content, she said.As youd expect  another panelist  Googles Benjamin Faes, MD, media & platforms, decried the rise of ad blockers and Shines network level blocker techspecifically  arguing such movesrisk the free content ecosystem that he argued has been allowed to flourish online thanks to publishers content beingsupportedby ads. (Whether the online ad business hasproved quite as robustly sustaining of online content as Faes implied is a whole other debate, however)Blocking all ads is diminishing to the overall experience, said Faes, pointing out that four of the top 10 videos on YouTube last year were ads.Carthy countered Faes by claimingthat Digicel, which deployed Shine toall its 14 million users, has not had one person asking to opt out of itsmobile ad blocking offering so far.A total of zero consumers opted out of ad blocking while they have a choice, and the call centers have received a total of zero calls to complain about this bad experience. So it seems like its a nice deal for the consumer.Anywhere between five and 50 per cent of a consumers data plan is consumed by ad tech, he added.NestlesPete Blackshaw,VP, digital & social media, took amore emollient tone  arguingthat while mobile is achallenge for the ad industry its also anopportunity to rethink itsmarketing methods and transparency ethics. Theres a huge amount of complexity out there, he said. Theres opportunities to really think through how we communicate that value exchange. One thing weve attempted to do along with a lot of other big advertisers in retail is think about consumer engagement principles where we really try to step up the game in terms of how we communicate what were doing online. How we articulate that value proposition  I think we may have to really learn as we go on that. Think more critically about transparency. Think more critically about  not just gathering feedback, but ongoing feedback loops to really understand.I do think we probably hung our coat too much on the legalise as the front end to the consumer, he added, discussing the issue of data harvesting not being transparent enough for consumers to understand how they are being tracked by advertisers.Transparency is definitely hard but thats part of the bargain. Thats part of the tension that we need to manage in todays environment Were the heart and soul of the creative community, surely we can step up the game in how we articulate the value of exchange. Maybe talk in a mobile centric language around privacy?Mobile raises the stakes for radical simplicity, right. Its like the power of small. And that means were going to have to reset the communication format on some of these very complicated issues  and Im very confident well get there. But I think the industry needs to again treat this debate as an opportunity.Googles Faes did agree with Shines Carthyon one thing at least: namely that webpage bloatisa growing problemon mobile.Googlesstrategy here to try to encourage improvements is of course an engineering one. Faes noted its released an open source tool  with the hope being thiswill end up applying pressure and shaming laggyad tech makers into better, leaner performance.Strange as it may sound Im going to agree with Roi on one point, he said. Which is I think the industry, advertisers and publishers have become very lenient on the speed.[On desktop] it doesnt matter if the page is 10MB or 20MB, it really loads fast enough. Thats not the case on mobile. And the experience of loading some page is really annoying on mobile. Were launching this week a product available open source called Accelerated Mobile Pages which resets the standards in terms of speed  so you press on the link and the page loads instantly on your mobile.To rediscover this wow moment of this is how the Internet is supposed to work. This is the speed that I like. And that challenges the ad to be as quick as the content. Thats the type of thing that resets or so the contract that we have between publishers and users. So thats the type of innovation that I think are really useful and are allowing the conversation to carry on, he added.The panel did not focuson the regulatory questions hanging overnetwork-level ad blocking tech (such as from regional net neutrality rules, for example). Perhaps because it would simply not be politic for polished marketeers to sit on a public stage and statetheyre going to carry on behavingobnoxiously with mobile data because the law says theycan.Still, isnt Shine concerned its technology  and thus its business  might not be blocked by regulatorsconcerned about ISPs getting involved with controlling the content their users can see online?They know its not the issue, Carthytold TechCrunch. Is anybody going to go out there and say you cant protect yourself because we found a loophole? These are all consumer companies. Theyre not going to shit in their own bed. Its not right, and its also disingenuous They know. Theyre all smart Theyre not going to fight us.