When I first met Aydin Senkut in 2006, it wasjust monthsafter hed resigned from Google, where he was a senior manager responsible for strategicpartner development in Asia Pacific. He wasamong a small number of Googlaires who had lots of money, great connections, and the ability to see many web startups before traditional VCs.In fact,many in the industry viewedSenkut and his ilkas arrivistes,and Senkuthas been on anunwavering mission since, firsttofirst impressthem, then tosurpass them. His execution has been pretty spot on, too. Felicis Ventures, theSan Francisco-based firm that hefounded 10 years ago and he now manages with three other investors, just closed its fifth fund with $200 million.Thats nearly double the amount Felicis gathered up for its fourth fund less than two years ago.Institutions are writing out big checks left and right these days. Butitseasy to understand why Feliciss limited partners were particularlyopento providing the firm with more capital. Felicis has invested in 180 startups to date. Three of those companies have gone public, including Fitbit and Shopify. At least three others Credit Karma, Planet Labs, and Adyen appearpositioned to go public.Meanwhile, another60 companies in Feliciss portfolio have enjoyedwhat Senkut calls meaningful exits. Most meaningful, seemingly, Felicis was an early investor in Cruise Automation, which is being acquired by General Motors for more than$1 billion; it backed the cloud infrastructure startup Meraki, acquired by Cisco for $1.2 billion in cash; it invested in Twitch,acquired by Amazon for $970 million in cash; and it backed Climate Corp., which Monsanto bought for roughly $930 million.If youre wondering about thenumber of companies that have flamed out after receiving a check from Felicis, Senkut says its is in the very low digits; its in the teens percentage on a dollar-adjusted basis.When we talked earlier this week, Senkut suggested Feliciss success so far owes to its strategy, which is to invest anywhere from seed amounts to large single-digit millions of dollars in an opening gambit. Its biggest first check to date wentto thefour-year-old, Sydney, Australia-based company Canva,which makes easy-to-use graphic design software.Which highlights another, even bigger, distinction between many other firms and Felicis, according to Senkut: the firm is more global in scope than most venture firms its size. Along with Sydney, the firm has met bets inAmsterdam (Adyen), Canada (Shopify) and Finland (Rovio), among other places.In fact, the partners see China and India as the only two countries that warrant having local offices (which they dont intend to establish).Not only does everyone on staff travel extensively, but everyone here speaks multiple languages, says Senkut, who was born in Turkey and notesthat Feliciss other managing directorswere also born outside the U.S., including Renata Quintini (Brazil); Sundeep Peechu (India); and Wesley Chan (Hong Kong), who joined Felicis from Google Ventureslast year.Once we make up our mind in terms of themes, says Senkut, we look for the best companies, no matter where they are.While we were on the phone, Italked with Senkut of the some of the investors he shadowed when hed first left Google, including famed seed-stage investor Ron Conway. I asked if Felicis has come to work closely with any particular firms as it has grownmore powerful in its own right.Not especially, he said. Imalways respectful to peoplewho helped me when I started. People gave me zero chance of success. I had zero deal flow. I had no network outside of Google, which had noalumni at that point. So I did whatever it took to build that network.These days, he suggested, Felicis is more comfortable blazing its own path.Oneof thecore aspects of what were trying to do is . . . go against the status quo. We have common [investments] with 50 venture firms. But everything we do is different, includinginvesting across stages and geographies. Peoplethought that wascrazy. Its not looking that way anymore.Pictured, left to right: Renata Quintini, Wesley Chan, Aydin Senkut, Felicis Ventures CFOGuergana Tomova, and Sundeep Peechu.