Its happening! Include Office Hours are coming to New York City. On Friday May 6 from 5-7 p.m.,Susan Lyne and Nisha Dua ofBBG Ventures will join TechCrunch in hosting the first ever Include Office Hours, New York Edition. Apply now.Unlike previous sessions, the upcoming office hours or solely focused on founding teams with at least one woman. To sweeten the deal, female founders who are selected for office hours will also be invited to an exclusive Women in Tech(Crunch) event also taking place the evening of May 6th.Launched in 2014, Include is TechCrunchs diversity program, aimed at facilitating opportunities for underrepresented groups in tech to take their startups to the next level.Office hours are part of that effort. Once monthly, TechCrunch collaborateswith VC partners to provide feedback and advice to early-stage companies. To be considered for the session on May 6,with BBG Ventures at the AOL Offices in New York City, fill out the application here.And now, for a little on BBG Ventures.BBG Ventures is an early-stage fund focused on consumer Internet and mobile startups with at least one female founder. They back entrepreneurs who are reimagining daily life, creating market-defining consumer tech products and services that make our work, play and home lives simpler, better  and more satisfying.BBG Ventures invests across marketplaces, mobile tools and services, commerce, media/content platforms and connected living. BBG Ventures has over 30 companies in its portfolio including Glamsquad, goTenna, HopSkipDrive, Modsy, Zola, RocksBox, Ringly, Kontor and Lola.Susan Lyne is president and founding partner of BBG Ventures, a new venture fund for women-led tech startups focused on consumer internet and mobile businesses. Before launching BBG Ventures, Susan was most recently CEO of the AOL Brand Group where she oversaw AOLs unique content brands including AOL.com, TechCrunch, Engadget, StyleList, Moviefone and MapQuest.Susan was CEO and then Chairman of Gilt Groupe from 2008-2013. Prior to that, she served as president and CEO of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO). While there she was named Publishing Executive of the Year by Advertising Age and received a Matrix Award from New York Women In Communications. Previously, Susan served Walt Disney Company and ABC as EVP of Movies and Miniseries and later president of ABC Entertainment, overseeing the development of shows including Desperate Housewives, Lost, and Greys Anatomy.Nisha Dua is a partner at BBG Ventures.Nisha has spent the last 10 years working across media, tech, strategy and law. She was the general manager of AOLs millennial site, Cambio, which she re-launched in 2014 as a site for girls, #BUILTBYGIRLS in partnership with Girls Who Code and where she quadrupled the traffic in fewer than seven months. Nisha founded the #BUILTBYGIRLS movement which challenges young women to be part of the tech-enabled economy through a series offline and online programs designed to help young women get ahead in tech, including the Girls Who Fund internship program which teaches girls the fundamentals of venture capital.Nisha was previously chief of staff for the AOL Brand Group, working on strategy, operations and special projects.If youre interested in attending, apply here by Sunday May 1.