Among the more than one dozen mobile shopping apps installed on my smartphone, Flipp has proved itself to be one of the more useful. Apparently, Im not alone. The app, which digitizes retailers circulars allowing you to locate the weeks best deals on everything from groceries and household items to high-end electronics, has seen over 3.5 million downloads to date since its launch in late2013. And today, Flipp isrolling out its first major upgrade, version 2.0, which now makes the app even more practical than before thanks to the addition of shopping lists.Flipp for a long time has proved useful to those who no longer subscribe to the Sunday paper with all its inserts, but still wanted a way to see the weekssales from area retailers. The benefit to having these available in a digital format is that you could pull them up from anywhere right on your smartphone, and you caneven search for specific deals and products, then clip your favorites.With the update, out now on iOS(Android willfollow later this month), Flipp becomes a bettermobile companion for the discount shopper. The new Shopping List feature lets you add your weekly needs, including groceries, to an in-app list.Flipp then scours all your local flyers to discovers the matching offers from nearby stores, so you can find the best deals. Afterwards, while at the store, you can checkthe items off your list as youplace them in your cart.Forexample, while testing this new addition, Flipp showed me thatTide detergent is on sale this week for $9.99 at both Walgreens and Target, but Winn-Dixie has Wisk as a buy-one-get-one deal. Handy! While that feature is useful when doingcomparison shopping for grocery and household items, it can also be used to track down the best prices for any other item, too  like that USB hard drive I have to grab from somewhere today. (No, I cant wait on Amazon this time.)When you find an item you want to buy after comparing prices, you can add it to your clippings sectionwith a tap for easy access later on.The app also includes a cross-store search functionality, search by product and brand, the ability to tap and hold to see an items details, a discount slider that highlights the stores best savings, and notifications for expiring clippings and nearby offers. And all of this is delivered in a cleanand easy-to-use interface that makes the app stand out among other salefinders and deals apps, which can sometimes struggle with good design.Flipps makers, Wishabi, are an ex-Microsoft team based in Toronto and is backed by $16 million in outside funding, according to CrunchBase.The new app is a free download on iTunes.