Lets face it, your phone is a blessing and a curse. Behind its sleek glass front is a whole world of excitement.All your friends, the entirety of the Internet and omg, a kitten videoIf you havent the focus orself-discipline to keep the phone away when youre trying to get some work done, Flipd has your back. Today, a shiny new iOS version of the app joined its one-year-oldAndroid sibling.Detailed stats aim to keep you on track and let you know how much time youve clawed back from the clutches of your smartphone obsession.You know how it goes  it happensto the best of us. You sit down to get a bit of work done, your phone buzzes and suddenly its 40minutes later; you havent written a word and your editor is breathing down your neck about why that bloody story hasnt been published yet. No? Just me then? Sorry, Panzer.Where was I? Oh, yeah. Distractions.If youre easily distracted, Flipd is about to become your BFF. Running in two different modes, it can either keep you on track by using a gamified casual lock that challenges you to stay off your phone and stay focused for a certain period of time, not entirely unlike the Pomodoro Technique.If your self-control doesnt stretch far enough that a challenge is enough, the full lock requires a bit of a set-up process, but can lock yourself out of your phone and hide away your apps. Youll still have access to some of the basics (the phone and SMS app, for example), but your social media distractions will be gone until the timer runs out.Sounds like a great idea, but Ive got to be honest: Installing a mobile-device managementprofile and giving any third-party app the power to hide my apps? Cant say that sits too well with me, but if you suffer from a crippling phoneaddiction, it may just be the only solution.This time, its the iOS crowds turn.Ituses a freemium model; its free to install and use, but some of the functionality is locked away unless you pay a subscription: $0.99 per month or $6.99 for an annual subscription.Still curious? See it in action here: