Flipboards75 percent jump in the last six months has it clocking in at over70 million monthly active users.And it looks like that is not the only recent bump for the startup: It appears to havequietlyraised another $50 million in funding.[Update: Flipboard has confirmed our story.]We were first tipped off earlier this month that Flipboard had raised a new round. Now documents that the company filed in Delaware  dug up by Justin Byers of private market data provider VC Experts provide more detail. (Flipboard didnot respond to several requests for comment.)On June 29, Flipboard authorized$50 million in a Series D, with stock priced at $2.2057 per share over22,668,540 shares. This is an authorization to sell stock, but itappears that themoney has already been raised.This is new money. If this is filed, then the money should be there, says Byers.Flipboard may wellraise more in itsSeries D. As a point of comparison, whenwe tracked down another fundraise via documents in Delaware for Houzz in June 2014  we were able to see$150 million raised. But when theround was finally officially announced in October of that year, it was for$165 million.While a Series D will help Flipboardcontinue to develop its business as an independent entity, there has been a lingering presence of M&A over the company, too, which often goes hand-in-hand with fundraising. Companies thathave reportedly talked to Flipboard for an acquisition include Google, Yahoo and Twitter.Coincidentally, Flipboard co-founder and CEO Mike McCue used to beon the board of Twitter and has been mentioned as a possible candidate for the vacant CEO slot.The June 29 documents do not detail a specific valuation but provide some hints atwhat the range might be.With 600,000,000 shares in total, on a fully diluted basis the valuation could be as high as $1.32 billion.But the valuationcould also be flat compared to its last round, when Flipboardwas valued at $800 million.FlipboardsSeries D share price, according to the documents, is the same as itsSeries C shares. The Series C was for $100 million in total, covering about 45.3 million shares. Meanwhile, this Series D is $50 million, covering half as many shares. All of this, as Byers says, could pointto a flat round in terms of valuation  not a great sign for a company.Prior to this filing, Flipboardhad raised just over $160 million.There are no new board members mentioned in the June 29 document, which could mean a round raised from previous investors.Backers in its Series CincludedRizvi Traverse Management,GGV Capital,Goldman Sachs,Index Ventures,Insight Venture Partners,Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byersin its Series C. Prior to that, other investors in the company includedAshton Kutcher,Comcast Interactive Capital,Dustin Moskovitz,Peter Chernin,Jack Dorsey,Peter Currie,Quincy SmithandSV Angel.Flipboard has been through a lot of ups and downs as a business. While other competitors have been acquired or are pivoting away from consumer apps, Flipboard has emerged as the biggest of the independents.But that distinction may not count for much in the bigger scheme of things. Flipboard faces stiffcompetition from large platforms like Facebook andApple  whose Apple News product was roundly described as a Flipboard clone when it was revealed in June.More generally, there are question marks over how to develop any news discoveryproduct to make it appealing to the mass market  something which Flipboard would likely need to do to fuel an ad-based model. Or if it eschews scale, whats the best route to develop a revenue-generatingbusiness based around anews junkie audience and Flipboards loyal users?Some believethat apps like Flipboards are inherently challenged for growth and sustained use because these days a lot of our news discovery comes from places like social networks  not dedicated news apps.McCue saidlast week that Flipboards app has been installed on some 300 million mobile devices. Considering that Flipboard has 70 million monthly active users, with a good amount of those coming after itlaunched on the web, it points to at least some challenges that the company has in getting people to use the product regularly on the platform for which it was originally intended.In that vein, the company has been expanding the service over the years. One of the biggest changes has been moving from a simple social-based news recommender and aggregator to a platformwhere individuals and others can also create magazines around different themes.Flipboard isalso working on other initiatives to make it easier for bigpublishers and individuals to use the serviceto syndicate content. One workin progress,under the provisionalnameof Pipes, would involve making it easier to feed and update content in Flipboard magazines using RSS.