Apps dont come much more simple than this: Flyr is an event invite creator for iOS that lets you slap a couple ofcaptions atopan animated GIF so you can fire off a zeitgeisty birthday/drinks/pool party invite to your buddies on WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook et al. with minimal effort.Just key in the key info, e.g.the event name, date and location, and then add a GIF of your choice to jazz things up via the embedded GIF search feature  et voila: you get an animated flyer to spreadall over your social feeds (or email, iMessage, etc).The app was built by 18-year-olds Nicholas Parasram and Daniel Hanover, who have another event-focused app under their belt (calledEventible). But super simple customizable GIFs would seem to be an easier sell to mobile users than a fullsocial event sharing network  the latter beinga space thathas claimed a fewstartup scalpsover the years so its because of this wider opportunity theyre now focusing their efforts on Flyr.Were aiming to utilize the excitement factor of GIFs (the creative language of our generation), the mashup of rich media and the power of mobile messaging to help amplify the boring event creation process and make a fun Flyr, says Parasram.Event creation tools in the market focus on heavy data entry, where Flyr focuses on memorable invites using shared interests amongst friends. You can create Flyrs for parties, weddings, vacations, beach hangouts, and any occasion in under a minute.The market is currently full of web-first platforms such as Evite, Splash, Paperless Post and more which dont appeal to the current mobile world we live in, he adds.If theres one thingGeneration GIF loves more than GIFs its not being bored. Whichexplains their love of agitated pixels, for starters. And soan app that canrustle up a passable invite with lesseffort than it takes to buya flat whiteis surely going to win youthful friendsand influence millennials. Just add your own Cat Fun Times.Flyr is a free download so future monetization options the pair are kicking around include branded Flyrs (tied totracking popular keywords searches), and/or offering premium content such as stickers or additional media or features that canbe added to Flyrs for a fee. Theyre also looking at promotion options for parties, says Parasram.If theres one more thing to say here its that messaging apps are of course fully fledged social platforms in their own right these days. So tools that let users expand on the socializing they are already doing via the likes of WhatsApp andFacebook Messenger are addressingan engaged user-base from the get go.Flyr hasnt got that many direct social share options for messaging apps at this nascent stage but Parasram confirms they are looking to expand on that asap.Were working on that as we speak  we just wanted to launch with the basic share platforms initially, he tells TechCrunch. We are heavily focused on the messaging apps as opposed to social networks because invites are private and for a select group of people.