Vessel, thevideo subscription startupheadedby former Hulu CEO Jason Kilar, announced this weekthat its moving in a new direction in terms of the advertising displayed on itsservice. In a move that recalls YouTubes venture into ad-free viewing with the debut of YouTube Red, Vessel is also making its service ad-free for all its paying subscribers. Meanwhile, those who use Vessel for free will continue to see ads.The announcement was posted by Kilar on the company blog, where he also noted that one of the most popular requests to date has been for an ad-free experience.The company, by way of background, has aimed to carve out its own niche in the streaming video market by offering fans a way to gain early access to creators videos  generally 7 days or more,before those videos golive on YouTube. Creators, in turn, have beenpromised the ability to make more money than on the free, ad-supported sites by adopting this model.Kilar says this remains true  noting that creators who participate in early access earn more than $50 in revenue per thousand views.He also added that Vessel today offers over 300,000 videos from over 250 content partners  up over 50 percent since last summer. The company declined to talk subscriber numbers, but claimsthat viewersfrom more than 155 countries pay for early access to videos.There are also now two pricing tiers for paying customers  either the standard $2.99 per month or the new $19.99 annual subscription, unveiled just today.Unspoken in theannouncement is the fact thatYouTubes launch of its own ad-free experience, known as YouTube Red, may have thrown a bit of a wrench into Vessels plans. With the ability to pay for the same videos on Red, sans advertisements, paying for early access to videos that included ads may have seemed like less of a draw for potential customers.Its also unclear to what extent the young demographic that Vessel caters to is willing to pay at all, given that the company doesnt talk subscribernumbers. (That could also be the reason for the new, steeply discounted, subscription tier.)To some extent, you can gain insights into Vessels traction via its mobile apps rankings. And thats not looking so great  the app is an invisible No. 1279 on the iTunes App Store Entertainment category (and falling) in the U.S., and No. 490 in the same category on Android. Given that its focused on the mobile video consumer market, this may indicate that its audience  including both free and paid users  is still fairly niche.Vessel hints at its plans to grow thisaudience, however, with news that its also expanding beyond its early access model with the launch of full-year exclusives. The company characterizes this as only a modest test, but has already lined up creators, includingLinus Media Group, Brittani Louise Taylor and JeromeASFto participate, it says.