Editors note: Brian Fitzgerald is the president and co-founder of Evolve Media.Move over, millennials, kidsare once again the top priority for marketers. Thanks to a confluence of factors, children have becomethemost valuable consumer segment of all.As a father, I can tell you that mykidsdictate the majority of our household purchasing decisions. Since children influence how the family budget is spent, theyre prime targets forTV advertisers. But in the last couple of years weve seen a fundamental shift in childrens media consumption habits. Onlinegamingon tablets and smartphones have taken over as the ultimate first screen for connecting withkids.Marketers need to start thinking differently about how to develop relationships with this critical young audience. They can start by looking to the independent publishers who create child-safe, rich media environments.Kidsnowadays will never experience life without smartphones and the Internet. Many of them become tech savvy before they can walk:29 percent of childrenstart using mobile devices as toddlers, with an impressive70 percentmastering them completely by elementary school age.Moreover,parents are more likely to own smart mobile devices. Nearly 70 percent of parents have a smartphone, while 44 percent have a tablet. Compare that with47 percent of non-parents who own a smartphone and 29 percent who have a tablet. These figures probably dont come as a surprise to parents, who often rely on tablets and smartphones to explore entertaining and educational content with their children.Not only are these digital natives adept at using computers and mobile devices at a young age, but there is also a wealth of digital content geared especially toward them.Athird of American parents believetheirkidsare extremely influential on household spending. Kids determine spending on everything from big-ticket items like vacations, to smaller things like personal care products and breakfast cereals.Reachingkidscan be more effective than marketing to teens and young adults, who tend to be more jaded. Children internalize brands early, so its not surprising that the brands were loyal to as adults are often the ones we developed an attachment to early in life.Savvy marketers understand the power of kidfluence,but their tactics are outdated. Members of this coveted demographic kidsand tweens aged 6 to 12  are no longer entranced by passive entertainment likeTV.When adults or teens live tweet while watchingTV, their smartphones function as companion devices. But forkids, playing games is the ultimate first-screen activity; everything else is secondary. While theres been a lot of talk ofkidssecond-screening, theres a misguided assumption that the television still reigns supreme.The problem with television is that its a passive experience.Kidscan pause it, mute it or simply ignore it. Compared to other options,children dont findTVas compelling as they used to. When children consume content on multiple devices,TVis relegated to the second or third screen, so much of the advertising geared toward kidsends up as background noise.Games, however, are dynamic and they require active participation, reducing the likelihood of multitasking. Forkidsand tweens who seek active entertainment (rather than reaching for the remote), online games are the most exciting content available today. Such a high level of engagement offers brands a desirable opportunity to integrate marketing into gameplay.Video-based ads  whether they run pre-game, between levels or within the game  are seamlessly woven into this rich, interactive medium. With reward-based actions like downloading coupons to unlock additional levels, ads can also be integrated into the play itself. And unlikeTVcommercials, there is a focused audience waiting to play, so ads are always in view.The growth of onlinegamingwill have positive impact for publishers, advertisers and the target audience.Its a boon to marketers because they dont need to commit large chunks of their budgets to television-based, linear programming with the likes of Disney and Nickelodeon. With games, advertisers have an attentive, lean-in audience that is hungry for non-linear, interactive entertainment. And publishers producing child-friendly content are tapping into an undervalued demographic, shining a light once more on the importance ofkids.Of course, protecting childrens online privacy is a major concern, and today, ad inventory must be compliant with theChildrens Online Privacy Protection Actand theChildrens Advertising Review Unitto ensure thatkidsand tweens aregamingin safe environments.Ultimately, onlinegamingis about more than marketing. Independent publishers are also helping to protect innovation in childrens media by creating content that the target audience truly enjoys. The more talented publishers we have, the richer and more diverse the content will be, giving children more to experience and discover.