Ford is holding its annualdeveloper conference in tandem with the TechCrunch Disrupt SF Hackathon this weekend and ahead of the event, the company announced an update to its Sync AppLink developer platform.AppLink,which allows smartphone apps to connect to the car, now allows developers to make better use of Fords new SYNC 3 infotainment system. This means apps can now push in-vehicle notifications to both thecars audio system and its displays, for example, and access some of the cars sensors through AppLink. Apps will also now be able to use the cars built-in microphones toreceive voice controls.The new Sync is a major step up from the old system in terms of usability, but its also the first time that Ford has brought together its AppLink technology and Ford MyTouch interface. It took Ford a while to bring this integrated system to market, given that Sync made its debut in 2007 and the MyFord Touch user interface launched in 2012, but AppLink wasnt really integrated into those systems.When we brought it to market, it was a revolutionary product. Nobody was building systems like MyFord Touch, FordsJulius Marchwicki,the companys global product manager for Sync AppLink, told me when I asked him why this integration took so long. But it came at the expense in quality  which we needed to correct for our customers, he added.With the updated AppLink, developers will be able push notifications to the driver, but depending on whether the app is running in the foreground and the actual geographical region, Ford will restrict how often apps will be able to alert users.The most important new feature, however, is access to the cars sensors. Currently, gadgets like Automatic, Mojio and others can already pull data from the cars OBD portand Marchwicki acknowledged that there is definitely an overlap between the kind of sensor data these tools and AppLink now offer developers. He argues, though, that AppLinks data set can give developers information like rain sensor data and location information that isnt accessible through the OBD port (though Mojio has a built-in GPS receiver, for example).Weve taken what we think is the most useful information that can be easily translated into user-actionable data by developers, Marchwicki said. He believes this opens up lots of opportunities for crowdsourced information, for example (when your wipers are on, after all, thats probably a good indication that its raining in your current location).Ford says that more than 13,000 developers have registered for its developer program since it rolled out in 2013 and more than 24,000 software development kits have been downloaded. Sadly, that doesnt mean that there are now thousands of compatible apps. Instead, there are only 90. Any way you look at it, thats a massive gap.Marchwicki acknowledged as much. There is a clear gap between exploring and bringing it into the car, he said and noted that the degree of testing and quality assurance necessary to allow apps in the car is one of the main reasons for the small number of apps available right now. I dont think developers who are developing for the automotive space are aware of our quality requirements.To rectify this, the company plans to ensure that developers havemore realistic expectations when they develop for the carand understand that they have to make sure they exactly followFords quality guidelines. In addition, Marchwickis team is also looking at releasing a software emulator so developers can test their apps more easily.Because its so hard to get apps into the car, Ford runs the risk that developers will simply develop for Android Auto and Apples CarPlay platform instead  both of which Ford says it will support in the future.To counter this, Ford has recently open-sourced the AppLink platform and some other manufacturers, including Toyota, are now looking at support it. That would give developers alarger potential install base, but I think what developers really want is an easy way to integrate their appswith the car.