
Beerud Sheth is co-founder and CEO of Teamchat, CEO at Webaroo Technology and formerly founder and CEO at Elance.  
 As the number of mobileappsincreases while the size of our mobile screens decreases, were reaching the limits of the mobile OS +apps paradigm. Its getting harder to download, set up, manage and switch between so manyappson our mobile device. Most mobile users only use a handful ofappsevery day.As an alternative, messagingappsare becoming the new platform, subsuming the role played by the mobile operating system. This is similar to the trend in the mid 90s, when the browser replaced the desktop OS as the new platform. Just as websites replaced client applications then, messagingbotswill replace mobileappsnow.Bots, therefore, are the newapps. The bot store is the new app store.WeChat, Line, Facebook, Slack and Telegram are messaging platforms that enable interaction with third-party services from within the messaging interface. Each of these platforms enable developers to build messagingbotsto provide automated services through the messaging interface  Facebook M is a good example. Which means were at the early stages of a major emerging trend: the rise of messaging bots.Messagingbotscan read and write messages just like a human would.Botscan be programmed to carry out automated actions.Botscan both initiate action as well as respond to requests from other users.Botsare of different kinds, too; they automate conversations, transactions or workflows.E-commercebotsenable buying of goods and services. Foodbotsorder dinner. Content bots share relevant content with you (e.g., news, weather). Watcherbotsnotify you when specific events happen (e.g., your flight is delayed, this car needs servicing). Banking and trading bots provide financial services. Workflowbotsautomate business workflows in sales, HR, operations, admin, finance, etc. Chartbotssummarize data in charts suitable for small screens. IoT bots connect us to our smart homes, cars and devices. Conciergebotsprovide a wide range of services implemented by otherbots. And when all of thesebotsget to be too much, your Personal Assistant bot manages the communication with the otherbotsfor you escalating only the high-priority requests for which youve trained it.However, forbotsto function under diverse use cases, the messaging needs to be re-architected. Current message formats are limited to plain text, which require thebotsto have natural language processing capabilities to communicate with humans. However, there are limits to the precision or efficiency of computer-based natural language processing.Natural language isnt the best way to capture an order, a travel booking, an approval, an invoice, a survey, a registration form or any other structured content. If a message format remains plain text, it either limits the capabilities of the bot or requires multiple iterations to precisely specify the request.Sonowwe have smart messages that structure content, like mini-web pages, to enable precise and efficient communication betweenbotsand humans.Botscan customize smart messages to render the structured information, to capture user response and to act further on them.The framework ofbots,along with smart messages, enables replication of virtually any site or app onto the platform. Almost any transaction or workflow can be mapped to the messaging framework.Messagingbotsoffer benefits, as well.Botsde-clutter our mobile experience.Botssend us a message when we need to know or respond to something, but stay invisible otherwise.Botsreside in the cloud and upgrade themselves with new functionality  without any user action.Botscan interact with one other and can be chained together to perform a series of actions in sequence.Botscan supervise otherbots, leading to bot hierarchies.Your personal bot will supervise otherbotson your behalf, per your personal preferences. You may choose to delegate authority tobotsthat act autonomously on your behalf. Your shopping, scheduling, tracking, monitoring and messaging can be automated according to personal preferences. Your bot can even filter advertising messages sent to you  in fact, in a world of perfectly informedbots,traditional advertising may have a diminished role. Its a brave new bot-filled world, with new possibilities and new risks.Botsare currently availableat a bot store (on Teamchat), not unlike todays app store. Initiating a conversation with the bot is the same as starting a chat with a friend  no download required.And the user interface forbotsis a message. You just send and receive messages from the bot. No need to learn, understand and navigate disparate interfaces or languages. Users will be able to interact withbotsjust as they interact with other humans. Its the most natural way to communicate and transact.Two decades ago, the paradigm shift on our PCs from desktop OS + client applications to browser + website led to a massive shift in the tech industries. We are on the verge of a similar shift on the mobile device, with even bigger consequences given the fact that no one can live without theirs.