Are you sick of not knowing what the weather will be like at your cousins best friends sisters birthday party that is in six months? Well, now you can know exactly what the weather will be like that daysort of.Recently featured in the TechCrunch Radio Pitch-Off, WeatherPlanner is a year-ahead weatherservice that will tell you what the weather will be like on any specific day for the next year.Heres how it works: The service analyzes 100 years of weather history to make ageneral prediction about the estimated weather conditions for any date requested, plus 10 days before and after that date. The idea is that users can try to plan a major eventin the future without worrying about it being rained out. The company said that this technology is already being used for logistical planning by companies like McDonalds and Walmart, and theyhavepackaged this same data in a consumer-friendly interface.While the prospect of never getting stuck in a snow storm certainly sounds appealing, common sense tells us that mother nature has always been, and will continue to be extremely unpredictable.So just how accurate is WeatherPlanner? Jay Ciccarone, the companys CEO, explained that the company uses algorithms to track trends with the same probability as a short-term forecast.Our algorithms provide an outlook of howweatheris trending up to a year in advance with the same probability as a short-term forecast. But thats where the comparison stops. The science behind each is different and we solve a different problem. You and I plan further out than 10 days for vacations, weddings, sporting events and holiday travel. Like the Fortune 500 companies using this technology, we need WeatherPlanner to better prepare for our special and everyday moments.  Jay Ciccarone, President and CEO, WeatherPlannerWhile the service is available for free, the company is focused on a B2B strategy that sells the service and data to othercompanies. For example, a department storecould use WeatherPlanners data to see what dates couples are searching for in the future, and use this data to predictwhen that couple is getting married, and prompt them to open a gift registry.Yesterdays announcement that IBM is paying more than $2 billion to acquireThe Weather Company showed just how big of an opportunity weather data is. If accurate, year-ahead weather couldeventually wind up beinga large part of thedata forecasting and analysis associated with weather forecasts.