Bob Messerschmidt knows a little about health and wellness tech, having spent three years helping architect the Apple Watch platform after Applequietly acquired his spectroscopy company, Rare Light, in 2010. (The terms were undisclosed.)Messerschmidt also knew when he left Apple to found a new companythatit would againinvolve smartphones. After all, he reasoned, theyre starting to help us track not just ourgeneral wellness but also our responses to medicine and other treatments. The bigger question was which chronic condition he would tackle and before long,hesettled on Cor, a now two-year-old, San Francisco-based, consumer-facing startup that helps measure heart health,all with just a tiny drop of blood.Before you start worrying that Cor is a youngTheranos, the embattled blood testing company, its worth noting that there are manymeaningful differences between the two companies.For one thing, Cor wants people to test themselves in their own homes, using an appliance the size of an electric toothbrush and disposable cartridges.Their blood chemistry information is then sent into the cloud, analyzed, andresults are beamed backed to users within five minutes, along with helpful tips about how to improve them.Which raises another important point: Cor isnt trying to tell its users anything definitive. Theranos is trying to provide diagnostic numbers, notes Messerschmidt. Were not. Were not a medical device company. Were providing life style guidance.Its trying to be as transparent as possible about how, too, unlikeTheranos. To wit, though Corsproduct isnt amedical device, Corhas validated itsmodel and methods in a clinical trial run by a third-party clinical research organization.Cor is nowpublishing thoseresults in order to allow peer review and promote understanding of itsapproach.Of course, thecompaniesfunding pictures are also very different. Theranos has reportedly raised $400 million. Corwhich employs just three people but has an impressive advisory board that includes longtime investor Bob BozemanandThomas Quertermous, a professor of cardiovascular medicine at Stanford has raised $1.03 million in seed funding. (As for valuation, an Indiegogocampaign thats kicking off this morning should helpboth Cor and potential investors understand a lot more about its value and whether the company is on the right track.)Despite Messerschmidts background, Cors success is far from assured.For one thing, the device isnt cheapat $299, plus another per $10 per month for cartridges. (Early adopters at its Indiegogo campaign are being asked to pay $149, which includes athree-month supply of cartridges.)Its also an open question of just how often peoplewant insights about their own wellness, as well as how keen theyll be to draw their own blood on a weekly basis. Its amuch bigger commitment than, say, slapping on a wearable fitness tracker like theFitBit.Messerschmidt says Cors product features a very fine needle that gets poked in ones arm, saying its similar to what you use for glucose [testing]. It really doesnt hurt at all.Messerschmidt acknowledges that peoples ambivalence about their own health is another issueto overcome.Still, he says, For people who want to try, we provide support, including via the feedback of Cors other customers, who willbe asked to answer occasional, anonymizedsurvey questions about their results and the ways they are improving on them. (Cor hopes that once it has a larger database of such insights, they can be used to helpinform the lifestyle choices of its other users.)Certainly, its a huge market Cor is targeting. Roughly 25 percent of the adult population has one of the early warning signs of heart disease. Meanwhile, a much smaller segment of super-fit people might be drawn to the device to wring as much performance from themselves as they can.Cor gives users afibrinogen number, for example, thats particularly helpful for people who are in intense fitness training. Other blood chemistries related to cardiovascular that Corprocesses are HDL and LDL cholesterol levels(meaning users good and bad cholesterol) and a type of fat in the blood called triglycerides.Cor measures the numbers but it doesnt report them to users. Instead it gives them insights based on its analysisso they can make better choices in terms of supplements, dietandexercise.If youre just reporting numbers, once [someones ] numbers are not improving, the device just goes into the sock drawer, says Messerschmidt.Messerschmidt is hoping theyll keep Cors deviceon the bathroom counter instead.To learn more, you can find CorsIndiegogo campaign here.