Foursquare  the startup likelybest known forpopularising thecheck-in for users to share their locations with their socialnetworks has more recently been trying to make a name for itself as a location-based big data machine.To grow its business, it partnerswith large tech companies like Twitter and Microsoft to gather data, and with advertisers like American Express to leverage what it knows about you to commercial ends. Today the company is sharpening its B2B pitch even further, with the Foursquare Location Cloud and Places by Foursquare.As Dennis Crowley, CEO and co-founder of the company describes it, the Location Cloud will be the companys big repository for all of its location data and geotechnology, used not just by its own two flagship apps, Swarm and Foursquare, but by other companies, such asTwitter,Pinterestand potentially others in the future. It also incorporates the new Pinpoint product for adtargeting, launched in April.Foursquare today has a massive role to play with developers, with more than 80,000 using its location APIs. Today onstage at Disrupt NY, Crowley defended why its taken the company so long to commercialise a lot of the technology that it has in its repository.When we started in2009, I really thought that stuff would work in 2011 and 2012 but the phones werent good enough. If we want to do that we have to build all this technology; we cant just rely on what Google and Apple will give us from APIs and SDKs, he says. So in 2011 we got serious about it, building shapes and detection algorithms. Its taken a really long time to build this stuff and so its only now that were able to offer [for example] push recommendation services.Today, Crowley also touched on possible future scenarios, such as acquisitions (although he didnt directly address the story we ran last month about a possible acquisition of Foursquare byYahoo.Its not like, Hey if you get it, you take it,' he said, explainingthat the aim is not an acquisition but to build its business and continue to grow to hundreds of millions of users. If we team up with another company would we get there, would it help? Possibly, seemed to be the answer.In the meantime, the company continues to build its own commercial business with more ad tech products for itself, and tools for others to use, and by plugging away at its free consumer apps. One of those, Swarm, got a big update yesterday that ironically brought back some of the legacy features like mayorships that might have looked stale on first glance, but madeit famous in the first place and upset many loyal users when they disappeared.