Weve outsourcedthe storageof our devices onto the cloud through services like DropBox, so why not look to shift the muscle behind them to the cloud aswell?Frame, a company that allows you to run desktop applications in your browser over the cloud, is launching its serviceswith a worldwide beta this week. Users can now run any Windows program they desire through the service which allows users, for instance, the ability to run Adobe Premiere on a netbook.The company just raised a $10 million Series A last month with participation fromColumbus Nova Technology Partners, Bain Capital Ventures and SQN Venture Partners.The service is pretty wild. I did some heavy editing on a couple of graphicsinsideAdobe Photoshop through Frame on my laptopand never ran into any snags. Recently, Ive been lusting after the latest Macbook, but whats been holding me back are thepretty limited specs on it that would hold me back from occasionally editing video or an infographic. A service like Frame that can let me access graphics-heavy internals through the cloud could really solve that issue.The tiered pricing for the betahonestly seems to bea littlewonky fresh out of the gate though. Base plans for personal use start at$9.99 per month and give you access to 200 credits (plans for businesses start at $12.99 per user), which equals out to about twenty hours of usage on a 1-core PC with 4gigs of RAM, possiblyenough to wadeyour way through Photoshop. With any video-editing or rendering though, youll want to at least upgrade to the Standard account at $16.99 that includes 500 credits and Pro servicesthat can get you to some pretty insane speeds. You can actually dial into a blazingly-fast computer with 16 CPUs, 4 GPUs and 64 gigs of RAM, all over the cloud. Damn.While the credits system is a bit confusing, CEO and Founder Nikola Bozinovictold me that they werent able to offer any all-you-can-eat at this time, and believed this was probably the most idealpricing structure for launch.Users can try out a free 14-day free trial of the service. Also, Bozinovic sent me a special code to share with yall, TC25, which willgive the first 200 TC readerswhoenter it $25 in credits for Frame.