German startup Protonet, which last year raised just over$4 million via Seedmatch for its secure server product for SMEs  8x more crowdfunding than it had originally sought  has cooked up a new initiative using some of that funding, and this time its a not-for-profit campaign lobbying for a change in Europeanlaw to open up individual access topersonal data heldby digital platforms and service providers.The online Free Your Data campaign, which is beingannounced today and willkick off properly next week with the first fullvideo episode in whats intended as a multi-part storyto dramatize/garnerattention for the campaigns message, started out as a marketing idea for Protonet, to make theabstract notionofpersonal data more tangible  but quickly outgrew its marketing brief, according to co-founder Ali Jelveh, as the conceptof lobbying for a new law led it to discussions with politicians and data activists and the campaign togain wider support.Backers of Free Your Data now include severalGerman politicians and online activists (including MPs Konstantinvon Notz, LarsKlingbeil and JimmySchulz). Various third party businesses have also extended supportbyproviding services at below their normal business rate. Protonet is funding the first phase of the campaign but Jelveh says the group will have additional investors (as yet undisclosed), and hes now in the processof spinning itout as aseparate not-for-profit organization with the single aim of lobbying for a new data access law  which its calling the European Data Sovereignty Act.What would this law entail exactly? The campaignisbasicallycalling for an API for users to have real-time access to their personal data onceacompany hasmore than 1 million recurring users  which would meanupdating existing laws thatprovide individuals with a legal route to extract personal data from companies. Albeit one that typically takes a lot of time and effort, and likelyresults in a paper-based data dump of dubious value. What if, instead of that tedious and/or tortuous process, web userscould gainreal-time access to their personal data in a machine readable format as a matter of course? Thats the change the Free Your Data campaign wants to see.Jelveh is quick to talk upthe businessinnovation that suchreal-time access could unlock, as one motivating force for the campaign  imagining how startups could be bornto help web users aggregate, compare and understand their use ofdifferentservices, via these personal data APIs. (Of course you could also say theres an element of business envy here too; of smaller European commercial entities seekinga routethroughthe walled gardens of dominant (and often U.S.-based) web platforms to monetize usage.)We had this idea, how cool would it be if you would know what the big companies know about you? Not that they would have to shut down their tracking systems and things like that, the only difference would be that you would also know what you know about you, he tells TechCrunch.We believe that opening up the floodgates to your data to really be available to you to sell it, or to optimize it, or to have a data agent or a data lawyer, or whatever youd call it, would open up huge new possibilities. All these data streams would end up with you. And that means that a whole range of possibilities are available to you in terms of what you want to do with that. But for that to happen, you have to have access. And it has to practical access.If we continue with the notion that data is some magical thing and so abstract and hard to understand we are going to end up in a huge mess. This transparency [means]you start to learn, with every interaction in the world, and you have instant data feedback, youll have a whole different range of options and much more profound choice that you can take, Jelvehadds.If we could get people engaged with it and playing around with it, and making things transparent and having them see  really see their digital footprint  then we could have a different kind of discussion about it.Beyond that, the widerphilosophical mission here boils down to pushingtransparency asan alternative to the current (European) legislative thrusttowards increasing individual privacy protections given that such regulations couldbe seen as a hinderanceto digitalbusinesses. What if, Jelvehposits, legislation were mandatingopening up access to personal data held by commercial entities instead of increasing privacy protections  so that users could make properly informed decisions about the services they choose to use?While current legislation is more about what should be in that data or what should not be in that data, and how much privacy is the right amount of privacy and things like that this is really about access, he says.The tracking companies would continue to track, or your telecom providers would continue to scan data, or to collect data about you, but by the transparency aspect you would know about it. And then you could take a choice on which telco provider you want to use. The one thats collecting more information, or the one thats collecting less information?Its an interesting idea. But it remains to be seen whether the campaign  which will take the form of an online petition, social media activity and various other campaigning actions (including some events to be held in Germany)  gathers momentum or not. Theyre hoping tochannel concerns among web users about how vast amounts of personal data iscontrolled and monetized by corporate entities. But of course spend any time online and youll quickly hear the view propounded that people dont give a stuff about what happens tothe bits and bytes they generate so long as they cankeep accessingthe (free) service. Clearly Free Your Data reckons otherviews are available.Theres also a timely element here, from a European political perspective, with the EUcurrentlyin the midst of harmonizing and negotiating a new data protection directive. Which means MEPs have privacy and data on theirmind (albeit this campaignis onlytangentially related, given it isfocused on transparency and data access, rather thanonways to secureprivacy).The European Commission are actually working right now on these new EU privacy draft laws We are talking to campaigners there, and to MPs in the European Parliament who want to push these aspects in, addsJelveh.How confident is he of being able to exert enough pressure to get aproposedlaw onto the statute books (either in Germany or at the European Commission level)  or at least put the idea onthe table for serious political discussion? Hes not quantifying that in so many words at this nascent stage, but suggests there is achance to build momentum, given the transparency concept could garnerbroader political backing from those whoholdanti-data privacy views, as an alternative to tightening theprivacy screw.You can say we have basically two choices: either we invent something new, or we have more data privacy in Germany and in Europe. So I think there is an opening there, he says. If you can engage enough people  and we have already engaged with the politicians  I think there is an opening that would allow for this law to pass within 12 months.Or at least to be put on the table within 12 months. That would be also a huge step. Having it being talked about in the German parliament, or the EU parliament would already be a huge step.Expect the first fullvideo in the campaign to drop on Monday. And the finale to land in early May. Albeit the plan is to keep Free Your Data agitating for change untila draft law is put before parliament  so this campaign might run and run.