Dataiku, a French startup that makes software to help teams ofdata scientists process and make sense of big data, announced 3.2M in Series A funding today  thats approximately $3.6M USD.Alven Capital and Serena Capital jointly led the round.The companys product is called Data Science Studio, which provides soup-to-nuts services for data science teams. The software can work with so-called dirty data, clean it up, then process it using the data and algorithms, the data scientists select, and finally present visualizations of the resulting data sets.The startup has been around since February, 2013, andCEO Florian Douetteau says they were able to bootstrap for the first couple of years because they began sellingthe software and were profitable early on, which is certainly refreshing.Douetteau said that the software is designed for teams, rather than an isolated data scientist. When youre building for a team, Douetteau explained, its about enabling common sharing of data, processes, data sets [and so forth]. This allows team members to reuse various components of the data, making for a much more efficient use of resources.He says the software could also be useful toothers in anorganization who might make use of big data such as business analysts, statisticians and developers.The company is still small, but its growing. They offer freemium and paid versions. Douetteau says he currently has 20 paying customers including retailers and insurance companies, which he described as medium to large companies. The freeversion has several hundred customers.We are not talking huge traction yet, but its a product that could be slightly ahead of its time. Most companies dont have teams of data scientists yet. Based on conversations with people in the industry, Ive heard many are lucky if they have one or two.But over time, as big data gains greater importance to companies, they will have little choice but to invest in data science teams and as they do, software like this will likely becomeincreasingly critical.For now, Douetteau says they are leaving the product generic and letting customers decide how to use it. He says the most popular use cases are scenarios like analyzing customer churn and modeling traffic and logistics.Douetteau came from Exalead, a French search startup that was purchased by Dassault Systmes in 2010 for 135M (which was approximately $165M USD at the time). He says in recent years, the French startup system has begun to come to life with new entrepreneurs coming on the scene and a funding ecosystem startingto develop. He says France isan attractive place to start a business because there is access to capital and a group of highly trained, available engineering talent (not to mention, its France).Among the areas that are attracting activity are connected devices (Internet of Things) and big data, where Douetteaus company has planted a stake.Its early days for sure for Dataiku, but the company is taking aim at a growing market and attempting to solve a set of problems that could develop into a much bigger business.