Crowdsourced journalism startupFresco Newshas just scored a notable partnership which will bring photo and video footage shot by ordinary citizens to several local Fox newsrooms around the U.S. Using the companys iPhone app, participating Fox-owned stations will be able to send out assignments to the apps users, who will then submit content to be used on-air. Users will receive $50 for videos and $20 for photos if they ended up being selected as part of the news program.The stations actually pay $75 for video and $30 for photos ahead of the startups cut. The rest is distributed to the user who shared the content.The partnership with Fox involves a number of Fox-owned stations in major markets across the country, includingNew York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Austin, Atlanta, Houston, Phoenix, Tampa, Charlotte and Orlando. The launch follows an earlier test of the program in Philadelphia (with Fox 29), that took place last month.Weve been trying to do this the right way for years, but all that was missing were some ambitious 20-somethings and a simple app, said FOX Television Stations SVP News Operations, Sharri Berg, in a statement about the deal.The launch follows Fresco Newsseed roundof$1.2 million last fall, from investors such asCNN co-founder Reese Schonfeld, MediaBistro founder Laurel Touby, former Yahoo executive Ross Levinsohn, former NewsCorp/AOL exec Jonathan Miller, Science Inc. founder Michael Jones, Fresco Capital, 1517 Fund, Social Starts and Wavemaker Partners.In addition to having the chance to become a paid citizen journalist, Fresco News iOS app also lets usersbrowse news events from around the world, including viewing Highlights, big stories, and related articles.Prior to Fox, other news organizations have already using its tools, includingThe Associated Press, Media General and Calkins Media, and dozensof smaller news organizations, the company previously said. The company did trials with AP, Media General and Calkins, but the Fox deal is a first-of-its kind said Fresco News CEO John Meyer.And theapp provides access to over 70 news organization partners in the U.S. who will pay when theyuse a submitted photo or video. Today, the company reports a consumer user base in the five digits, but expects that to grow with the Fox roll out.While many citizen journalism efforts in the past have struggled to take off, Fresco News is interesting because its extending what traditional newsrooms are doing anyway  that is, sourcing photos and videos from the crowd. Today, this isoften done by pulling from social media sites like Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube. These siteshave also been catering to this need via their own services  like Facebooks news-gathering platform Signal, launched last year, or YouTubes channel of vetted videos, Newswire, for example.However, these services tend to focus on the bigger stories of the day, like national or international news.With the Fox deal, the aim ismore at helpinga local communitys newsroom. For instance, the Philly station used the app for on-the-ground reporting of weather incidents like high winds and big snows, disasters like a major fire, and even lifestyle reporting, like a segment on Philly history.The citizen assignments are rolling out now, just in time for the big SXSW event in Austin, Texas, where the local Fox station will be looking to pull videos and photos from the conference, ranging from Obamas visit to pop-up concerts and more.