Carly Fiorina will speak onstage at Disrupt NY in just two short weeks. And guess who has the honor of speaking on stage with her? THIS GAL.The timing couldnt be more interesting, actually. Earlier today The Wall Street Journal reported that the former Hewlett-Packard CEO will launch her presidential campaign on May 4th,which just happens to be the day before she joins TechCrunch at Disrupt NY, which takes place May 4-6.This wouldnt be Fiorinas first foray into politics. Back in 2008, Fiorina served as an advisor to Republican John McCainspresidential campaign. She was also the Republican nominee for the United States Senate from California in 2010, but lostto incumbent Democratic SenatorBarbara Boxer. After tenuresat AT&T and its equipment and technology spinoff, Lucent, Fiorina served asHPschief executivefrom 1999 to 2005. She became the first woman to lead a Fortune 50 business, taking HP from the 28th to the 11th most profitable company in the US.Itseems to be a popular week for GOP hopefuls to declare candidacy. Fiorina, a Republican, is rumored to announce her campaign online, the same day asformer neurosurgeon Ben Carson (R). Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee told Fox News earlier this month he would make an announcement May 5th on his decision torun for president. Republicans whove already announced their presidential bids include Ted Cruz, Rand Paul, and Marco Rubio.On the Democratic side, so far only Hillary Clinton has announced her plans to run for President. Clinton and Fiorina, though representing opposing political parties, are the only two women in the running for 2016. Which shouldnt matter as much as it does, but hey. I cant wait to ask Fiorina how she plans to use her experience in both the tech and political sectors to her advantage as leader of the free world.Fiorina willjoin other notable Disrupt NY speakers, including FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler andYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer.The show runs May 4-6 at the historic Manhattan Center. Tickets are still available.Image credit: Getty