For entrepreneurs, artists and people with an idea burning their way out of their souls, crowdfunding is a way of turning dreams into reality. For backers, the campaigns are a way to be tastemakers, to be on the cutting edge of what is new and cool and to get the newest gadgets before theyre available in shops.Theres a lot to love about crowdfunding, but one of the challenges is that once the campaigns have raised their money, most crowdfunding platforms step away,refusing any further responsibility. Kickstarter puts this particularly succinctly: We dont oversee projects performance, and we dont mediate disputes between users, it states in its terms of use.FwdForceis anew crowdfunding platform that has examinedcrowdfunding to see how it works and doesnt work. The company, which came out of private beta this week, believes it found a different model that will make raising money from the crowd a safer and more transparent experience for everyone involved.But I have my doubts about whether the solution they offer is an effective one.FwdForce wants to involve users in the process much earlier and add a layer of accountability along the way. It lets anybody submit a pitch for a product, then it establishes checks and balances forthe prototyping and production process. Itsays its model will make things more accountable for the backers.Current crowdfunding platforms fail to bring viable products to market, said Moshe Baum, co-founder and CEO of FwdForce. Were looking to shake up the space with our new model that will dramatically increase the products that go to market.An artists impression of a home surveillance drone, featured on the FwdForce websiteThe platform turns the crowdfunding model on its head by introducing the concept of challenges. A challenge is essentially an idea for a product that someone believes should exist and a crowdfunding campaign based around it.Its a valiant effort, and not actually a bad idea  but in my opinion, the company is failing to accomplish its goals; not because the platform is bad, but because they misunderstand how people use crowdfunding.To participate in a challenge, companiessubmit concepts. The project backers vote ona shortlist of concepts. The winning concepts receivefunding toprototype; from there, the prototypes must be submitted for testing before a deadline. The prototypes are tested in a third-party lab, after which a winner is declared and the concept advances to the next stage.Projects on the platform at the moment includesmarter bicycle locks, portable 3D printers, dronesand wireless earbuds. Its an interesting selection; all of these projects have been tried on other crowdfunding platforms with significant and very public failures in the past, but FwdForce believes that by applying its logic to the proceedings,its campaigns will fare better.Moshe Baum, CEO of FwdForceWe do not consider ourselves a crowdfunding platform, Baum emphasizes, and instead refers to what they are doing as a crowd-powered innovation platform.Asuccessful project would go through a series of steps in order to bring a product to fruition, following a process that is rather different than most current crowdfunding sites:Of course, things could go wrong in a few of these steps, and FwdForce has plans to deal with those eventualities.For example, if none of the prototypes pass muster, the remaining money is refunded. Later in the process, if the product fails to pass the QA criteria for delivery, the second team in line gets a shot.Concept pitch for a portable 3D printer listed on FwdForceWe have remaining funds to either provide a refund or allow the second-in-line challenger to try production, says Baum.We want toprovide the user with the best resources and guidance to make sure that they have successful final production, Baum said, confirming that We do not guarantee delivery.If the plan fails at some point along the way, the remainder of the money would be refunded to the user with twocaveats: the company isnt planning torefund the 6 percent fees it charges to run the campaign, nor would it offer refunds on the 3 percent processing fee.Crucially, what the campaigns are missingis heart.Take a campaign like the one for a road-legal electric motorbike that fits into a shippable case. Extremely interestingidea, but it immediately raises a barrage of questions thatthe campaign is unable to rebut on its relatively sparse information page.In my opinion, itsunlikely that $30,000 is enough to build a functional prototype that de-risks the project to the point that one can be certain ofdelivery; especially failing to considerthat one of the requirements is that the bike is road legal without specifying in which jurisdictions.A concept image for the non-lethal self-defense weapon listed as a project on the FwdForce siteOr take the project that, as I am writing this, has the most money pledged to it. This oneis trying to create a non-lethal self-defense weapon that has to be legal in all 50 states and has a $2,500 prototyping budget. The design and development of this is unlikely to happen for $2,500. Weapons  even non-lethal ones  are complicated and require extensive testing.Lets not even talk about the legal costs and challenges to bringa product like this to market.Thefatal problem, I believe, is thatFwdForce is all about ideas, which missesthe point of why people care about crowdfunding. Backersinvest their money in crowdfunding campaigns because they buy into the dream of the people who put the campaign together.At the stage of development where FwdForcescrowdfunding campaigns are happening, you cannot expect to findthe level of passion you see from projects like the Coolest Cooler, Exploding Kittensor Pono Music.These projects are all in the top 10 most-funded projects on Kickstarter. They didnt succeed because they are great ideas. In fact, I would suggest that the ideas behind all three of them are profoundly daft. The point, however, is that none of theseideas would haveraised muchmoney atthe ideas stage.The FwdForce design concept for a pair of fully wireless earbudsThe corollary is that I dont believe the platform will eversee a multi-million-dollar fundraiser; it simply wont experience the levels of success that Kickstarters elitehave seen.FwdForce raises some fantastic questionsaround who ought to run crowdfunding campaigns, what they are for and how they work. The crowdfunding community should be grateful for that, and the discussion ought to continue from here.Nonetheless, the company hasnt presented the answersrequired in order to solve the challenges at hand, and Im not convinced the crowdfunding landscape is noticeably betternow that the platform is live.