U.K.-based serial gaming entrepreneur Tony Pearce has pulled in another tranche of early stage funding for gamesGRABR, his Pinterest style social network for gamers, bagging 450,000 ($665,000) in seed funding from ~220 investors in asecond crowdfundinground, via Crowdcube.The investment goes toTeePee Games, thestartuphe founded back in 2010 whichowns and operates the gamesGRABR brand.Itsprior crowdfunding raise kicked off in fall 2013, and took in 175,000 (including some angel investment) to fund product development. The official beta launch for gamesGRABR was a year ago, in April 2014. Its now gettingupwards of 100,000 unique users per month, according to Pearce, with 50% returning month on month. He says the aim isto hit 1M monthly active users this year, and then raise a SeriesA round in 2016.At present theres a roughly 50:50 usage split between U.K. and the U.S.-based games fans. Theprimary target for the pinboard is Pinterest-refuseniks 16 to 34 year-old males, with no focus on any particular gaming genre  rather it caters to gamers of all stripes, with multiple genre categories users can choose to theme their collections with, or browse through.Pearce wont break out the gender split of the platform when I ask, noting only that: Surprisingly we do get a lot of women joining gamesGRABR. Surprising, presumably, given the business itself has chosen totarget men. (Plenty of data pointssuggestplenty of women like andplaygames too.)GamesGRABRspinboard lets games fans curate collections of games and other gaming related media and content  using a Pinterest style GRAB button browser plug-in. They can also browse other users boards to findnew games and game genre-specificcontent theyre interested in, plus engage with other games fans via the platform, and even play free games (or click to buy titlesfor other platforms).At present the startupis monetizing via affiliate revenue, with Pearce noting they have deals withretailers including Apple, Amazon and Game, plusitsown ecommerce service via partnerships with the likes of Sony Genba, Codemasters, Warner Brothers and Capcom  enabling itto offer games, special offers and discounts directly to users.Recently we have also started selling PC Steam games directly through our own e-commerce platform, which is growing quickly, he adds.Its also building an ad exchange to create another revenue stream. That will combine advertisers data with its own to match ads to users, basedon the detailed user profile dataits capturing. Pearce notes that making wish list boards for games they want to buy is a popular pastime for gamesGRABR users. So the phrase shooting fish in a barrel springs to mind here.Our aim is to break even in 2016 and we are well on our way to achieving this, adds Pearce.The latest raise for gamesGRABR closed more than80% abovethe figurethe team had been aiming for, and includednew investor London Co-Investment Fund (LCIF), agovernment-backed fund, which chipped in 100,000 of the round.The new funding will be used for marketing, which Pearce says have been minimal thus far, to help growthe user-base and scale the business, as well asfor product development  including a new gamification system which will reward users when someone plays or buys a game from their collection  with the aim of making the platform more sticky.Ultimately, gamesGRABR will morph into a broader kind of marketplace too. Targeting the second-hand games selling market by letting users sell games from their own collections is also on the cards, saysPearce. He adds that the funding will also be used to launch a native mobile app to extend gamesGRABRsreach further.On the user acquisition front, he further notes that some of the new funding will be spent on building more partnerships with YouTube vloggers  to tap into existing engaged communities of gaming fans as a tried and tested strategy to grow its own usage.This has been a successful route to gamers for us, so far wevepartnered withYogcastKim, Caddicurus and GamesSprout, with over a million subscribers between themto promote their own Featured Collections within gamesGRABR and they bring a level of influence and reach unavailable via traditional routes, he adds.