Ever wondered who influences the influencers?Developer Pierre-Jean Camillieri did, so he put together atool, called Game of Angels, that scrapes public Twitter and Angel List interactions to map inbound and outbound connections between technology investors, journalists and a third demographic hes dubbed influencers (e.g.analysts). The idea being toforeground the (human) networks thatconspire,accidentally or otherwise,to inflate the profile ofcertain tech products.A couple of recent stories got me really intrigued, he tells TechCrunch. Secret, Yo, and most recently Meerkat/Periscope. I thought the level of momentum and traction generated by these apps in no time was unbelievable. When you look into it, at how these phenomena start and get amplified, there is a small group of people thats making a huge difference. I wanted to try and understand the inner workings.Its fair to say that livestreaming app Meerkat inflated overa hot SXSW weekin Austin, before almost as quicklydeflating as Twitter-owned Periscope blew up in its place. As with politics, a week can bea very long time in tech.To better understand such hype bubbles/cycles, Camillieris experiment analyses Angel List activity andTwitter timelines of his chosen tech targets gathering up anymentions, who they areanswering to, whose Tweets they favorite and so on  orany signal thats pointing to another person as he putsit.If person A replies to person B, or A favorites Bs tweets, or A mentions B etc, I am assuming that A pays attention to what B is saying. So B belongs to As inbound map of influence.In the same example, since A listens to B, A belongs to Bs outbound map of influence, he explains.The tool then shows two interaction visualizations per person in the network  clicking on an individualsphoto toggles between aninbound and outbound map for them, displaying who they are speaking or listening to. Thepremise being to help entrepreneursunearth well-connectedangels/VCs within the tech-sphere.Its similar to a featureliketwtrlands network conversations view (here showing people who talk to Dave McClure, for instance) but less noisy, given its restricted to peopleCamillieri considers tech influencers(although that also makes it more limited in scope). Plus the mind-map structure also plotsrelative influence within each persons network, represented as the distance between an individualand each of their connections.Heconcedes the tool iscurrently skewed towards U.S.-based/Silicon Valley investors, so it loses relevancywhen it comes tomapping wider geographical influence networks, such as the European tech scene. Still, its a visually appealing way tosatisfy your curiosity about who in Valley power circles isdigitally hobnobbingwithwho.Camillieri, whowhen not hacking together mind maps isalso working on a pocket concierge startup called Timista, reckons theres potential for turning Game of Angelsinto somethingmore powerful tohelp facilitate communication betweenentrepreneurs and investors. I got so much feedback and interesting ideas that I am going to allocate some time to this project, he says.From what I have gathered the current version has already helped people discover important angels.What his experimentperhaps most powerfully conveys is how digital communications thatin one context may feel quasi private  such as when you @reply someone else directly onTwitter  areabsolutely not. Such datais ripe forharvesting, combining, repackaging and presenting in anewcontext. Such as the oneabove, which foregrounds quasi-private communications andconnections, making online relationships far more explicit.Still,everyone in theseconcentric tech influence circlesknew that already.