Garmins Fenix line is dark, brooding, and, in a way, beautiful. Their latest watch, the Fenix 3, joins that rebellious lineage with three new styles including a Sapphire model with real sapphire crystal face.The multi-sport device can record running and swimming as well as almost any outdoor activity including hiking and skiing. It has a large GPS antenna in the bezel and features a transflective display which makes it readable in direct sunlight and allows it to last for six weeks in watch mode or 20 hours of active usage.The best thing, however, is that Garmin has imbued some true style into this latest model. While the previous version seemed a little Blade-Runnery, this watch looks more like a bigger, rugged fashion watch rather than a robot polyp  and thats a good thing. Now that these things last for longer than a few days on a charge I could definitely see folks wearing this as their primary watch in the office, no mean feat for a sport watch.It will be available starting at $499 in the spring.Introducing fnix 3: The Next Smart Multisport GPS Watch from Garmin
OLATHE, Kan./ Jan. 5, 2015/ Business WireGarmin International, Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), today announced the next-generation multisport GPS watch, fnix 3. With the new EXOTM GPS antenna, fnix 3 boasts features that support a full range of multisport activities, from advanced fitness training, to cross-country and alpine skiing, snowboarding, as well as hiking, climbing and trail running. Its compatible with the Connect IQTM store for even more smartwatch functionality and customization. Fnix 3 comes in three variations: Silver, Gray, and the premium Sapphire, which features a scratch-resistant sapphire lens. With uncompromising details like a stainless steel bezel and sunlight- readable high-resolution color display, the fnix 3 combines the GPS and wearable technology that Garmin is known for with a sleek new form factor that suits both the outdoors and the boardroom.
Epix is being showcased with the wide-ranging line of purpose-built Garmin wearables in the Garmin booth (South Hall 4 #35811) at this years CES.
Premium materials, a rugged aesthetic and smartwatch capabilities make fnix 3 the perfect watch for someone who lives a rigorous lifestyle, said Dan Bartel, Garmin vice president of worldwide sales. Designed to handle even the most rugged conditions, fnix 3 provides a comprehensive multisport feature set that can be fully customized to the user, making it easy to transition into everyday activities.
Uncompromising Design
Available in three variations, fnix 3 features a new, bold design with superior construction quality: Silver with a red band and crystal lens, Gray with a black band and the premium Sapphire with a stainless steel band and domed sapphire lens. Each features a protective stainless steel bezel and buttons, and glass fiber reinforced housing to survive even the harshest conditions. The new omni-directional steel EXO antenna, when paired with GLONASS and EPO, provides an even faster fix and accurate position than GPS alone.
Each fnix 3 model boasts a sunlight-readable color display with an LED backlight, so data is easily visible in any light. Water rated to 100 meters, fnix 3 can withstand swimming and other water activities without fear of damage1. It boasts 20 hours of battery life in GPS mode, 50 hours in UltraTrac mode and six weeks in watch mode. Basic watch functions include alarms, tones, vibration alerts, timer and stopwatch. Users can also choose from a variety of analog and digital watch faces to suit style and personal preferences.
Multisport Training
Fnix 3 is packed with training features to improve users form and fitness. When paired with a heart rate monitor2, fnix 3 can estimate VO2 max to evaluate the users fitness level, and based on this calculation, predict race times. Fnix 3 can also calculate recovery time and perform a recovery check after intense

workouts, so users know how long to rest before their next hard workout to prevent injury. When paired with HRM-RunTM, fnix 3 reports advanced running dynamics, which includes cadence, vertical oscillation and ground contact time to improve running economy.
In addition to running, fnix 3 also reports on biking, swimming, skiing and snowboarding, as well as daily activity tracking. In the pool or open water, fnix 3 can track distance, pace, stroke count and more. Ski/Board mode puts speed, distance, vertical drop and an automatic run counter on the users wrist while on the slopes. For everyday wear, fnix 3 has activity tracking functionality, which provides a customized step goal each morning, then counts steps, calories and distance throughout the day. It also features a vibration move alert after one hour of inactivity and sleep mode to monitor quality of rest at night.
Outdoor Navigation
Like its predecessors, fnix 3 comes equipped with a full navigational toolset. The EXO antenna paired with the 3-axis electronic compass, barometer and auto-calibrating altimeter allows fnix 3 to easily navigate on and off the beaten track.
With fnix 3, users can plan trips and navigate courses, mark locations, such as campsites or points of interest, and record GPS breadcrumb trails on the move. The TracBack feature can automatically reverse the activity to navigate back to the starting point.
Connect IQ & Wireless Connectivity
With Connect IQ, fnix 3 can be completely customized to suit the needs of the user. Connect IQ is the first-ever open platform for third-party developers to create apps and widgets for Garmin products. Through the Connect IQ store on the Garmin Connect Mobile app, users can download customized apps, widgets, data fields and watch faces to make their fnix 3 even smarter.
Garmin is working with several app developers that are creating fnix 3 apps for the Connect IQ
store. Tempo, for example, is building a smart calendar app that will let users see their upcoming events, and send an email from their watch if they are running late. LifeLine Response personal safety app is expanding to include Garmin devices with 24/7 Professional Safety. AccuWeather will offer an app to give users air quality and allergy information at a glance. iSKI is working on an app to provide the latest weather, snow, lift and slope information at a glance. Octane Fitness is building an app to bridge the gap between outdoor runs and indoor workouts on the Octane Zero Runner to seamlessly track all workout stats. Moxy, a muscle oxygen sensor, is creating an app that monitors the oxygenation of critical muscles during a workout, so users can have more insight on what is happening within their muscles.
In addition to Connect IQ, fnix 3 is equipped with even more wireless connectivity. The Smart Notification feature allows users to pair their smartphone3 with the watch to receive call, text and email alerts right on their wrist, no matter if their phone is buried deep in their backpack. Automatic uploads to Garmin Connect through Wi-Fi hotspots or through the Garmin Connect Mobile app allows users to seamlessly upload their data via Bluetooth. Fnix 3 users can also use the mobile app to start a LiveTrack session, allowing invited friends and family to follow along in real time during a training session, out on the trail or even on race day. To further enhance training, analysis and sharing, additional features are now available in Garmin Connects modern view including multisport support, a new activity detail page, group leaderboards and more.
Fnix 3 can also act as a wireless remote for the Garmin VIRB Elite action cam. Using ANT+, users can start and stop recording and take stills right from their wrist. In addition to heart rate monitors, fnix 3 is compatible with a variety of other ANT+TM accessories such as tempeTM temperature sensor, speed/cadence sensor, and the VectorTM power meter.
Fnix 3 will be available to purchase in Q1 2015. Fnix 3 Gray and Silver will have a suggested retail price of $499.99 and $549.99 for the HRM-Run bundle. The premium fnix 3 Sapphire will have a suggested retail price of $599.99.