Tech investor, billionaire and Donald Trump-backer Peter Thiel has been locked in a legal battle by proxy with GawkerMedia that amounts to a First Amendment test whichcould potentially put Gawker out of business.Themedia company that consistently challenges and pokes at the powers that be in technology and venture capitalhas, according to The Wall Street Journal,hired an investment banker to explore strategic options including a potential sale, in the midst of this costlyconflict.Now, Gawker founder Nick Denton has published an open letter challenging the investor in Facebook, Palantir and SpaceX to engage ina public debate outside of the courtroom, and without the affiliated legal fees, in the name of public discourse.For those just becoming aware of the situation, heres a timeline:In seemingly unrelated incidents:If youve read this far and are wondering where Thiel comes into play again, and how he could possibly be connected to acharacter like Terry Bollea, lets skip a few months ahead to May 2016:Which brings us back to Dentons challenge to Thiel. In an open letter he published late today on Gawker.com, he writes:The best regulation for speech, in a free society, is more speech. We each claim to respect independent journalism, and liberty. We each have criticisms of the others methods and objectives. Now you have revealed yourself, let us have an open and public debate.The court cases will proceed as long as you fund them. And I am sure the war of headlines will continue. But, even if we put down weapons just for a brief truce, let us have a more constructive exchange.We can hold the discussion in person with a moderator of your choosing, in front of an audience, under the auspices of the Committee to Protect Journalists, or in a written discussion on some neutral platform such as Medium. Just tell me where and when.At the very least, it will improve public understanding of the interplay of media and power. Considering the amount spent on lawyers, $20 million between us at this point, there should be some public benefit.A source who previously worked for an institution that poured significant amounts of capital intoPeter Thiels funds said he did not think endowments, wealthy individuals or family funds who are limited partners working with Thiels funds would react in any way. They only want to see good returns on their investments.The source said, Limited partners in his funds know he is an original thinker, and libertarian and they probably wont be concerned with his political involvement or legal involvement vis a vis Gawker Media.