Like many big companies, GE has been in the process of trying to reinvent itself, andPredix, its Industrial Internet of Things platform has been a big part of that.Today, at its annualMinds +Machine conference in San Francisco, GE announcedthat the Predix platform had grown into a big business with $5 billion in revenues and $6 billion in orders expected this year.The company also madea slew of other announcementsincludingPredix.io, their Platform as a Service offering, which enables companies to build their own custom applications on top of Predix. The program has about 4000 developers today, and GE ishoping for 20,000 by next year  although the vast majority of these will be from GE and its ISV partners for now.This is very much like the Salesforce 1 approach to development where Salesforce has provided a platform and companies have built custom solutions and entire businesses on top of it. GE is likely looking at a muchmore modest uptake with its platform, but it is a similar idea.Todays announcementcomes on the heels of the companys August newsthat it would be offeringInfrastructure services to developerson Predix as well. That was a bold move in a crowded market, but GE is trying to offer a soup-to-nuts menu of industrial cloud services. This is similar in some ways to IBMs cloud strategywith SoftLayer for infrastructure, Bluemix for developers and a portfolio of SaaS products as well.To fill in that last piece, GE is also offeringsome industrial software packages on top of Predix to prime the development pump. These includeBrilliant Factory and Digital Power Plant, two products designed to help squeeze more efficiencies out these verticals Both products were announced today at Minds +Machines.These two tools are part of new generation of software that is using big data to make industrial workflows more efficient. In the case of the power plant software, it reads information from sensors and other sources and based on that dataprovides ways to generate more electricity from the same equipment.We are connecting real-time controls and sub-systems and creating models for optimizing [the system]. We usesensor data, then work against models and adjust controls in real time based on that, Bill Ruh,vice president and global technology director at General Electric told TechCrunch.He claims that using this suite of tools, the company has been able to squeeze out 20 percent more electricity from wind turbine farms running the software.Brilliant Factories does something similar for factories, looking at the body of data, comparing it against a model and getting the maximum amount of usage out of machines. GE developed these tools for its own factories and is now making it available for customers, Ruh said.The software helpsfactory managers by sending warnings when data showsan imminent part or machine failure, so they can plan accordingly. It also helps optimize the job scheduling based on factors such as how much pressure the equipment can take.In fact, Ruh says companies running this software can expect $230 million in savings per plant over 20 years, which if true is obviouslysignificant.Finally, GE is announcing more capability around Wurldtech , the security company it bought last year. The company is protecting more than 4000 wind turbines, gas pipelines and similar industrial equipment from cyber attack. These kinds of equipmentrequire a different kind of protectionfrom the datacenter, Ruh said.This bushel of announcements is meant to showcase Predixs capabilities. GE is hoping that as it builds out the platform, it can begin to rely on it as a growingsource of business. It sees big growth ahead, predicting business willtriple to $15 billion in revenue by 2020.