There are changes afoot at Gengo, the crowdsourced translation service based in Tokyo, Japan, which just announced its $5.4 million Series C roundand a change of leadership.Matthew Romaine, previously CTO, is replacing fellow co-founder Robert Laing as CEO of the startup.Gengos service connects translators with customers who want their wordstranslated. Itsa particularly interesting company because, unlike many startups in Japan, its business is global, to the point that most of its revenue comes from overseas. Despite that, however, Gengos Series C round wasput together entirely by Japanese VCs. It has landed big name investors in the past  including Intel and Atomico  but this time around the funding wasleadbyRecruit, withparticipation from SBI Investments, MUFJ Capital and CrowdWorks.They are an intriguing setof backers, and not just because they are Japanese. Recruit offers an ever-increasing range of online services worldwide  it bought German restaurant booking service Quandoo earlier this year  whileCrowdWorks is a global crowdsourcing firmthat recently went public in Japan.Tokyo-based Romaine told TechCrunch in an interview that it had been more practical to raise funding from Japanese investors rather than venture capitalists over in the U.S.. The new backerssee significant opportunities and growth potential in Japan, especially with the Tokyo 2020 Olympics on thehorizon. Their involvementin Gengo appearsto be the primary reason for this change at the top.Because of my bicultural background and experience working across Japan and the United States, Im proud to accept the baton as Gengos next CEO, Romaine, who is American-Japanese and led the new funding round, wrote in a blog post.Laing is transitioning to a Special Projects role,which Romaine saidis more than just lip service.Romaine said he plans to use the new money tomake hiresin GengosU.S. and Japanese offices. He wants to increase the companys sales and marketing efforts, and develop more powerful translation tools to help itcrack international markets and expand its business in Japan.Gengos new investors have similar global and service-oriented business. They could, at face value at least, bethe kind of organizations tobuy the startup outright in the longer term.Romaine, however, told TechCrunchthat he hadnt had conversations about a potential exit.Wehad heard rumors that a number of Gengo staffers are departing the company following these changes. Romaine confirmed these exits, but said that they were unrelated to the transition.We did receive notice of departures before this announcement some things happencoincidentally, he added.Gengo has processed over 300 million pieces of translated content to date. Last year it opened up its datawith a portalthat shows the speed, capacity, reliability and user feedback from its platform.Todays news takes Gengo to over $23 million in funding from investors. Itraised $5.25 million from Atomico, 500 Startups and others in 2011, and wenton to closea $12 million Series Bround led by Intel Capital in 2013.