It doesnt matter if it was Live if you missed it. And Facebook knows that people watch actually Live streams 3X longer than saved ones. So its changing the News Feed to prefer on-going broadcasts.Twitters big advantage with Periscope is that theyre both inherently real-time platforms. Periscopes generate notifications for all your followers there, and show up instantly at the top of the Twitter timeline.Facebooks News Feed wasnt built for real-time content. Its designed to show you whats best, even if thats a few hours old. But that doesnt work with Live video. Facebook Live lets you permanently save and show off your streams rather than deleting them after 24 hours like Periscope. But its the urgency, interaction, and raw unpredictability that make Live videos fun to watch.So today, Facebook made the so-sensible-it-should-have-always-been-like-this decision to change its News Feed ranking algorithm to rank videos that are currently streaming Live higher in the feed than old saved streams.Facebook launched Live for celebrities in August before slowly rolling it out to people with Verified Profiles and Pages and eventually all iOS users in January. Then it gave Android users the option to broadcast last week. Rather than notify all your friends or fans when you broadcast, Facebook cut spam by only sending you a push if the stream comes from a close friend, Page you recently interacted with, or you purposefully subscribed to their Live videos.The change should make it more likely that youll catch Facebook Live streams while theyre still in-progress. This way you can leave comments that the broadcaster will see.Were finally seeing the ways that Facebook Live and Periscope differentiate, considering the streamingand live viewing experiences are nearly identical. Twitter will rely on notifications and you seeing the initial tweet or retweets of Periscopes. Its more about getting people in during the first few seconds.Meanwhile Facebook will hope to use the massive attention its News Feed receives to surface the best on-going streams where youre already looking. It can use signals such as Likes and comments to just surface the best streams so you dont end up getting notified about or shown some boring lunch monologue.