Terms and conditions suck, as weve said before. They are designed to be impenetrably unreadable to convinceapp users not to bother. The Click here to AGREE button might as well have a giantcartoon arrow winking away on it.Its a shitty situation that trapsconsumers in a position of ignorant consent when it comes to participating in the digital economy.The only alternative being self-imposed digital banishment. Not exactly a fair fight.And even less fair when you consider that most of the apps being used now are mobile apps, and small screens make an even less pleasant reading environment fordigesting dense, multi-thousand-word blocks of legalese. I mean, we know the law is an ass, but trying to stuff an ass intoa ~63 rectangle of glass is particularly ridiculousTo illustrate exactly how ridiculousthe Terms & Conditions debacle remains for app users, Norways consumer protection agency is live streaming reading out the T&Cs for 30 common apps  includingSnapchat, Dropbox, Instagram and Facebook  over a 24 hour+ readathon.You can watch the event right here, right now.The readingkicked off at 9am CET sotheyve been going for almost two hours at this point.At the time of writing theyre less than an inch deep into a stack of paper at least 5 inches high. Youll definitely be very sick of popcorn if you make it through the entire event.Thankfully the NCC isnot sacrificingone persons vocal chords tothis horrible taskwith readers beingswapped regularly and supplied with copious glasses of water to make it through the awful stack.Discussing the T&Cs-a-thon with Ars Technica yesterday, the NCC said: Reading 250,000 words of app terms and conditions is an impossible task for most people. We hope this will highlight what consumers actually click OK to. Many apps also take away our rights by granting themselves the power to unilaterally amend the contract. It is self-evident that consumers are put at a disadvantage.The readathon follows the NCCinvestigating 20 apps T&Cs, findingmany implemented unfair terms and poor privacy practices. It also recently made a formal complaint to Runkeeper over personal data being transferred to a third party even when the app was not in use  an illegal data-grabthat Runkeeper subsequently claimed was a bug. It remains unclear whether the personaldatain questionhas been deleted by the third party, as the NCC is urging.