The pendulum swings of technology trends have been well chronicled over the years. Suchswings suggest thehugepopularity of real-time messaging apps should spark anopposite digital movement that  paradoxically  seeks to encouragemore face-to-face humaninteractionswith the help of apps. Stranger things, and all thatOne recent example pushing in this direction is U.K.dating apprendeevoo, which aims to fix the tedium of Tinder by excisingthe ability to IM a match before meeting up. The app is just an interface for agreeing or decliningprospectivedates. Well,heres another example: called GetReal,this just-launched iOS appwants users to spend more time in each others company, and lesswith messaging apps.GetReal isnot targeting asingle use-case, like dating, but has the broad-brush aim ofhelp people meet others in their immediate vicinity for a variety of reasons. Whether its generalnetworking, conference-specific networking, wanting to get to know people in theneighborhood, angling for prospective dates, or if youre traveling or have moved to a newcity and are looking to makenew friends over coffee. Whatever.While location-based networking is by no means new, arguably the popularity of dating serviceslike Tinder (and even public social networks like Twitter) haveconditioned app users of a certain age (and tech savvy) to be more willing to meet strangersafter a little digital small talk. GetReal takes things further by limiting pre-meeting in-appinteractions to just a visual assessment of a basicprofile (photo, plus a short who/why status paragraph). For a little added context the appalsoforegrounds whether the two of you haveanymutual contacts on other social services (Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn  if youve link those accounts). And thats it.When you open GetReal after setting it up, it showsother users in your immediatevicinity who are at least theoretically willing to meet. Once youve spotted someone interesting you can send them a meeting request  specifying thelocation where you want to meet (via an in-app map pin-drop feature), and addingan optional message to the meeting invite  and they then have to decide whether to meet or not. GetRealcurrently gives usersa half an hour window to accept, defer or decline a meeting. The appalso maintainsa listof how many people youve invited to meet, how many are available in your current location, and any you have muted.Of course, being freshly launched, GetReals immediate hurdle is the network effect. The bootstrapping developer behind the startup,Arnaud Meunier  a U.S.-based former engineering manager at Twitter who was acqui-hired in 2010, when Twitter bought his priorstartupTwitoaster,leaving in 2014 to work on GetReal has to spoof his location to mine so I can see how the interface works.When hes not around theres no one else near me in London to try to meet.He says hes been testing the project for two months with a beta group of around 200 users.The initial focus has beenNew York City and San Francisco  owing to the obvious pool of tech industry people, willing and constantly needing to grow their networks.During the beta test, the app has been pretty much exclusively used by tech people. Primary use cases have been recruiting and tech talks, he says. My hope is by targeting the tech community, it will expand to other type of communities, still with the same application: two minutes coffee meetings, primarily for a business purpose.There is some obvious crossover with a networking app like Networkr (aka Tinder for LinkedIn contacts). OrLets Lunchwhich lets you sign up to have a networking lunch with a nearby professional. Albeit GetReal is more pared back than either, with itsfocus on serendipity and saving time  perhaps filling a 10 minute coffee break between conference sessions with a last-minute chance meet. Or stumbling across someone who looks interesting and happens to also be in your localcoffee shop.Whether GetReal has legsoutside the techie hubs its focused on now is questionable. Startupfolk are arguably the most conditioned humans on earth to meet randoms, and such an unfocused concept does not have immediately obvious mass market appeal (theres also a risk it could be appropriated by sleazy types seekinghook-ups). But the notion of a digital productthat seeks to sell itself with a promise of taking up less of your time,not more is bang on trend. (And yes, GetReal has an Apple Watch app.)The app in fact started as a social experiment, afterMeunier says he got frustrated with how he felt digital social networking waseroding real-lifesocializing.I feel we simply do not talk anymore, he argues. We text. We email. We post on Facebook. We tweet on Twitter. And I believe its destroying our ability to effectively communicate in our work relationships, in our dating life, and in our relationships with our friends.So I started this as a social experiment six months ago: what if we all stopped texting, and had an actual face-to-face conversation once in a while? For work or for fun, I just find it so much more exciting (and effective!) to drop the emoticons, and get to know each other, in person.Im not aware of any product taking this approach, he continues, when I ask about competitors. No texting + around you + right now. You might think ofHighlight on nearby side, Happn on dating side, or Weave on professional networking side.But they all lock you in a chat box and over rely on profiles, creating a shopping mentality that doesnt foster in-person interaction.Predicting the likelihood that a relationship will succeed before two people actually meet is not only time consuming, but also extremely difficult. And theres probably never going to be a substitute for getting that two minutes from another person across a cup of coffee, he adds.From here, Meunier says his next step will be to raise money  sayinghes been in talks on that front for months but wanted to avoid taking money before theproduct launched properly. He also wantsto getsome solid data points to validate hisidea and get a better sense of the kind of people/demographic who are interested in cutting to the chase and meeting up in person. So, anyonefor coffee?