Editors note: Nino Marakovic is the CEO and managing director of Sapphire Ventures.Much has been learned and written about the significantcashconsumption associated with high-growthSaaScompanies. But just how does one achieve rapid growth in aSaaSbusiness while maintaining capital efficiency? By focusing on thetimingofcashcollection, not justcash spend.Over the past several years, Sapphire Ventures has invested in dozens ofSaaScompanies, including Box, ExactTarget, DocuSign, Krux and Socrata, and evaluated hundredsmore. As a result, weve developed a strong understanding of best practices and gainedknowledge of the benchmarks and metrics that actually matter when it comes to running aSaaScompany.What weve noticed is that thetimingofcashcollection can drastically influence thecashconsumption of a high-growth, recurring-revenue business significantly beyond what one would intuitively assume. This ultimately has implications on the attractiveness of a business or, at a minimum, the level of shareholder dilution it experiences over time and will become an increasing area of focus as the period of cheap growth capital slowly comes to an end.The cash-for-growth tradeoff is a well-known question confronting mostSaaScompanies. Software subscription businesses incur expenses today to make sales that translate into revenues over some future period of time. This can create atimingmismatch between whencashexpenses are incurred (e.g. sales and marketing) and whencashreceipts are collected from customers. This also explains whySaaScompanies often consume lots ofcashand show significant P&L losses during high-growth phases. So what does thetimingof billings andcashcollection have to do with all of this?For starters, the impact ofcashcollection on cumulativecashneeds is vastly underestimated by many practitioners. There are also other important considerations associated with upfrontcashcollection.Lets take two hypothetical early-to-mid stage, high-growth, recurring-revenueSaaSbusinesses and model them over a five-year period. We assume each company admirably grows annual GAAP revenue from $2M-$6M-$13M-$28M-$53M and enjoys a 100 percent annual renewal rate. Both companies have identical aggregate cost structures that are well over 100 percent of revenue, which is benchmarked on dozens of recent high-growth SaaSbusinesses weve evaluated or invested in, or that have gone public. As illustrated below, the two companies thus have identical GAAP bookings, revenues and operating income.Bookings, Revenue and Operating Income of Both Businesses: SameThe only difference is that the first company, Company M (monthly), is like mostSaaScompanies in that it gets paidcashmonthly and ratably over the one year contract period. The second company, Company A (advance), collects the full annual contracted value in advance.Comparison of Cumulative Cash Burn: Drastically DifferentThe difference incashconsumption between the two companies is staggering. Company A would have burned $36 million lesscashover the five-year period due to growing deferred revenue balances, to achieve the exact same revenue and bookings trajectory as Company M. This gap incash consumption can be the difference between success and bankruptcy or moderate versus significant dilution for the founders and early investors.Company M burnedmorethan three times the amount of capital as compared to Company A despite identical bookings, revenue growth and operating expenses. Who can afford to ignore this?(The full underlying P&L andcashspreadsheet is availablehere.)Improvingcashflow isnt the only benefit of collectingcashupfront.The additionalcashgenerated by advance collection can be deployed to fuel accelerated revenue growth and, as a result, be used to generate potentially evenmorecash. This virtuous cycle widens the top-line andcashdisparity between a monthly and advance collection model.Second, businesses that collectcashin advance typically have higher customer retention than those that dont. The reason is simple: customers who commitcashupfront are financiallymorecommitted to the ongoing use of the product, and the very fact that they are willing to pay upfront signals a higher level of comfort with the purchase. Also, it doesnt hurt that customers who pay annually in advance are subject to one, rather than potentially 12, discrete renewal or renegotiation decision points over a year.Despite the significant advantages ofcash, retention and growth that accrue to advance collectionSaaSbusinesses, the discussion would be incomplete without outlining the potential tradeoffs involved.The hardest part about collectingcashupfront is that customers need to agree to pay upfront. Notwithstanding charming and convincing sales executives, a customer will typically look for some incentive to pay upfront. This often manifests in the form of a discount, perhaps 5 percent to 20 percent, which is typically offered in order to acquire the same volume of customers while keeping sales cycles at reasonable levels. Relatedly, proof-of-concept or free trials along with retraining of sales reps may be required.Secondly, a critical yet unintended consequence of advancecashcollection is that companies may be tempted to spendmoremoney in a less prudent manner than they would otherwise, simply because they can. While a company might mask over-spending by continuing to book new customers and retain existing ones, if business slows down, cashlimitations and shortfalls may ensue.So although the payback period on sales and marketing in upfrontcashcollection models is de minimis, the importance of understanding the longer-term and ongoing consequence of billing in advance cant be overstated. Oncecashis collected upfront, the subsequentcashburn will be greater than that of a monthly model that doesnt collect upfront but burns less (or generatesmore)cashthereafter.To illustrate this point, Figure 3 compares the monthly and cumulativecashflow from one sample $12,000 ACV contract in an advance and monthly collection business:Comparison of Monthly Cash Flows of One $12,000 ACV Contract (Represents 50% Net Income Margin Business)Finally, because customers commit upfront and no longer have a monthly catalyst to potentially churn,SaaSpractitioners should be careful to measure the churn rate for customers up for renewal rather than month-to-month, as would be done under a monthly billing regime. This will provide amorerealistic view of the retention performance characteristics of the business.Ultimately, there isnt necessarily a right or wrong answer when it comes to thetimingof billing customers. Businesses that collectcashmonthly can be very capital-efficient by keeping a close eye on traditional sales efficiency ratios and other measures, and businesses that collectcashin advance may burncashdue to a bloated cost structure. Whats most important is keeping in mind the near and long-term financial, business and even psychological impact and tradeoffs of both models.