Back in February, we told you GGV Capital was raising a more than a billion dollarsfrom its investors.This morning, the 16-year-old, cross-border venture firm is making it official.The final tally, says GGV,is$1.2 billion, including a $675 millionmain fund; a $225 million Plus fund to back its most promising companies as they mature;a $250 million Discovery fundthatwill focus largely on seed-stage opportunities in China; and a side, $50 million Entrepreneurs fund that consists largely of company founders as LPs and that will invest pro rata across the funds.The firmhas a lot ofmoolah to invest, in other words. To find out where GGV plans to shop, we talked yesterday withmanaging directors Glenn Solomon and Jeff Richards, who are based in Menlo Park, but who travel to the firms Beijing and Shanghai offices frequently.TC: Aside from the amount youve raised, it looks like whats newesthere is your first dedicated seed-stage fund, 80 percent of which you intend to invest in China. Youve always made bets of all sizes in China; why break this part of your business into a separate fund?GS: Over the last five years, more than 70 percent of our investments have been Series B or earlier and manyof them have been in China. But we thought the opportunity in China to do [seed] deals is really strong for us given our work on the ground and the entrepreneurial community that weve built up in China.TC: Is it fair to say thisis largely a marketing tactic so entrepreneurs will be clearer about your intentions in China?GS: I was having dinner in Beijing with a CEO who weve backed in the past and in whose newest company we invested atthe Series B, and when I told him about our plans to raise Discovery, he said, Had I known you guys were doing seed investing, I would have called you first.Dont underestimate how important [messaging] is. Also, for our limited partners, having a separate vehicle helps them look at our seed investing activity and judge how were doing [versus when its lumped in with later-stage bets].TC: How is competition at the seed level in China?Is the scene less developed there? In the U.S., weonly hear about the giant fundings.JR: It is.When you think about when First Round Capital and True Ventures kind of created the seed category seven or eight or nine years ago, thats sort of where China is now. Here [in the U.S.], there are plenty of specialized firms that we love working with. In China, its evolving but still nascentand still rife withopportunities.For example, one of our sectors is SaaS and cloud, and [those technologies] are much less mature in China than they are here. Were also focused on IoT and robotics, and both will arguably be much bigger there, with manufacturing and hardware design [largelycentered there] and now an uptick in software design, too.Were focused, too, onmobile and the consumer Internet, and the consumer mobile population in China is the biggest there is.TC: Youve made plenty of later-stage bets in China, where many companies are now looking overfunded. Are you concerned about some or even many of these startupsthat are very young yet have raised hundreds of millions of dollars apiece in recent years?GS: Thesame dynamics in the U.S.are also playing out in China. A pretty substantial influx of later-stage capital into the market has fueleda lot of larger rounds and high valuation deals in China, just as happened in the U.S. with the added feature that in China, larger Internet companies, including Tencent, Alibaba, and, to a lesser extent, Baidu, havealso played a role in driving up round size and valuations for internet mobile companies. Competition among them is even more intense than here in the U.S. between Google and Facebook, and that hasprobably added more fuel to the fire.Ifcapital shifts out of the late stage market, well see perhaps the temperature go down a bit.TC: Some people think China is experiencing a bubble akin to our dot-com bubble of the late 90s,given that retail investors arecaught up in things, too.GS: We dont view the market that way. One useful framework is thinking about the old and new economy. The old economy withlots of state-owned enterprises and the like many ofthose companiesshares trade publicly in China. And ingeneral, theyve had too much leverageand they havent grownas fast as investors expectations, so youve seen some of those traditional companies traded down. But the new economy, from commerce to social, including connected devices  those continue to trend very positively, and our expectation is that theres a long way for them to go.JR: If you look at [mobile]e-commerce, theres a $550 billion market in China today, up from close to zero 10 years ago. Emarketer is expecting that number to hit $1.5 trillion over the next five to six years. Thats atrillion dollars of new spending thatsgoing to come into the market, and we believe these new companies will benefit. Thats whats driving optimism.Pictured:GGVsmanaging partners, including(left to right), Jeff Richards, Jenny Lee, Hany Nada, Jixun Foo, Glenn Solomon, Hans Tung