Hudsons Bay Company, the owner of department chain stores like Saks Fifth Avenue, said today it was acquiring Gilt Groupe for $250 million.The sale stillrepresentsa tough endto the story of Gilt. The startupwas one of the original darling flash-sale sites coming out of New York. But that whole market has found itself challenged by slim operating margins, its initial popularity waning, and the difficultiesof building a large-scale e-commerce operation.HBC CEO Jerry Storch said the company expects to address primary issues with Gilts operation that can put a strain on its bottom line. The company hopes to reduce costs by lowering Gilts customer acquisition through a physical integration with its Saks Off 5th  where Gilt members can return items.Part of thatplan is toopen Gilt concept shops inside Saks Off 5th storeswithcurated assortments, which the company thinks will be a prospecting tool for Gilt members.That couldalso bring with itadditional customerstoSaks Off 5th, Storch said. Theres also the benefit of sourcing merchandise from vendors together with its other properties  like Saks Off 5th  which can help lower costs.[Flash sale sites]continue to be quite successful, they grow with the customer, HBC CEO Jerry Storch said. The struggle is the bottom line, and were addressing two of the most critical pain points by sourcing customers at a lower cost and having returns to stores.These flash websites, its their manifest destiny to be part of brick and mortar.Theres also the mobile part of the equation: Storch said the company will continue to invest in Gilts mobile presence, which is one of the companys strong points. Gilt can teach us a lot for our other banners, he said on the companys mobile strategy.Prior to the acquisition, the company had been widely considered to be part of the billion-dollar startup club. But the company struggled to become profitable, and in October last year the company continued cutting jobs (at that time laying off 45 people). The company previously said a few times that it would go public in 2013 and 2014, before putting that on hold indefinitely and raising additional capital.Its also not the greatest return for its investors.Prior to the sale the company had raised more than $270 million, which makes thislook like a deal that will notreturn the total amount of money that it had raised. Fab, too, was valued at $1 billion before collapsing and eventually pivoting to ahome designstartup worth a tiny fraction of that. Re/code previously reported that the company could sell to HBC.But perhaps with the scale of Hudsons Bay Company, Gilt will find itself able to swing its way to profitability as acog in a larger-scale operation. Storchseems to believe so, and as part of the acquisition, Hudsons Bay Company expects Gilt to contribute approximately $40 million of Adjusted EBITDAby its fiscal 2017 year. The company also expects Gilt to contribute $500 million to its 2016 fiscal year sales.HBC does not intend to reduce Gilts staff as part of the acquisition, Storch said.Gilt will remain Gilt, hesaid. It has an incredible, loyal customer base, and a culture of innovation we intend on fostering and growing.