
Christoffer O. Herns is vice president of Strategy, Innovation and Analysis at Sparebank 1 Group, Norways second-largest financial institution.I playeda lot ofStarCraft II: Wings of Liberty online when it launched.And by that I mean a lot. As a result, I inevitably drifted into watching streamsof other players competing in order to improve my own game. I even remember having my favorite casters,HuskyandTotalBiscuit,in addition to followingTeam Liquid.Eventually Istopped playing as much, and even stopped following the e-sports scene. However, this period onlymarked the very beginningof the professional e-sports industry.Twitch had just launched, andonly the top players couldmake a living of the winnings.Since then, professional e-sports hasbecome a global industry, and has gainedinterest from major players likeDisney and Time Warner,andESPN is set to launch a dedicated e-sports channel.Indeed, the worldwide e-sports market has reachedmore than 134 million viewers, andmajor brands likeCoca Cola, Red BullandBud Lightare backingthe growing arenaof e-sports.The total market for e-sportsis estimated at $749 million; Asia is still the largest market, with more than$321 million in revenue, followed by North America at $224 million, Europe at $172 million and the rest of the world accounting for $29 million. The researchers at Newzoo estimate the total direct revenues from e-sports at $325 million, where North America leads revenue growth and Asia fuels audience growth.According to Statista, the majority ofrevenues is from sponsorships and advertising, with a total of $579 million in revenues, followed by betting and fantasy sites at $55 million, prize pools at $55 million and amateur tournaments, merchandise and ticket sales at $61 million.As money pours in, so do the controversies.Match-fixing is becoming an increasing problem, and a Korean playerattempted suicideafter learning that the teams manager was forcing them to throw matches. Drug use is also becoming an issue, as playerstake Adderall to increase focusduring tournaments.As a result, theElectronic Sports League will require players totakedrug testsat their events.The world of e-sports is also facing high levels of gender disparity, as the e-sports scene is almost entirely dominated by male players and viewers. Even though women representhalf of thegame-playingmarket,women comprise only20 percent of the e-sports audience. And the representation of competitive female players isconsidered criminally smallcompared to the total amount of female video game players. Misogynism and sexism is already a widespread problem in the video game industry and community as a whole, and reached new heights with the Gamergate scandal when several women in the gaming community were systematically harassed and received threats of sexual violence  and even murder. This also reflects on the e-sports scene, where female players report a disproportionately high level of harassment while streaming.Despite these problems, e-sports is still in its infancy, and is forecasted to grow at a CAGR of more than 25percentfrom 2015-2021, with an estimated market size between $1.1 billion and close to $2 billion by 2019. This is only the e-sports industry itself. The gambling industry is following e-sports closely, and projected fans to bet around $23.5 billion on e-sports by 2020. With a generation growing up watching PewDiePie and Minecraft streams on YouTube, we should probably prepare for e-sports to be as natural a part of entertainment as Monday Night Football.