Ever get the feeling someones watching you? Of course you do; you use theInternet So whats the answer to pervasive tracking technologies? Well, one answer  at least when youre able to step off grid entirely because youdont need to use your kitfor a bit  is to put your devices (and connected cards)insidea faraday cageto isolate them from the various wireless networks theymightotherwiseinteract with.Thismay sound a bit drastic, but if you want control over something digital the equivalent of a physical kill switch can feel pretty reassuring. Its much likesticking a piece of masking tape over your webcam  just to be sure.To wit: meet Silent Pocket, a maker of leather wallets, sleeves and bagswith faraday-cage-style shielding tech embedded into them, allowing users to isolate their devices from sneaky snoopers,scanners or would-be electronic pick-pockets. The company has just passed its $25,000 Kickstarter target to get its v2 line of privacy-shielding accessories to market this fall.Weve seen a few faraday pouches incorporated intoaccessories before. Unsurprisingly so, in thispost-Snowden era of surveillance awareness. Others include the Off Pocket, which ran a successful Kickstarter back in summer 2013; and last years UnPocket, from pro-privacy fashion brand The Affair.Silent Pockets shielding accessories have amore classic look than either of those predecessors, design wise, being made fromleather and with a minimalist appearance (i.e. you can have any color so long as its black).CEO and founderAaron Zar says its USP vs competitors in the space is firstly a flat, interlocking RF seal (pictured below), which incorporates a magnet to ensure secure closure of the shielding pocket.[It] can be discretely embedded into common accessoriesWithout the need for folding fabric, velcro or straps our shielding designs can be sown into anything  briefcases, cell phone sleeves, luggage, hand bags, back packs, etc, he says.The other difference claimedby Zar is thisline of v2 products offers more comprehensive shielding than other accessories in the space  with RFID/NFC shielding(125khz and 13.56mhz) and Full Shielding (700mhz-5ghz) offered, depending on the accessories in question. (NB: not all Silent Pocket accessories offer Full Shielding; some of the less expensive items are RFID/NFC only.)No other product can come close to our shielding capabilities. They all fall short because they only shield 13.56mhz RFID and if they are a faraday cage type product they cannot block high attenuation and also stop at 2.4ghz. With increased cell towers, satellites and signal strength our products are built for today andtomorrow, he argues.Healso claims that concerns about cutting offcell signal causing device battery drain arenot an issue with modern smartphones housed inside itsFull Shielding products  because he says the productsareblocking all signal to and from the device.Now that we have smartphones that operate much more efficiently your phone enters a dormant mode where the antennas inside are not active. They only become active when signal wakes them back up. This conserves battery.There is no need to turn off your cell phone before using the product, he tells TechCrunch.Silent Pocket hasa full range of accessories on its Kickstarter campaign  from card wallets, pouches and sleeves to multi-compartment bags. Costs range from a $5 pledge for a basic paper sleeve that shields RFID and NFC for a couple of wireless cards; to around $20 for leather card wallets; $35 for a passport holder; $50 for a clutchwallet or a fold-over iPhone wallet; to $80 and up for full shielding sleeves. Its most expensive product is a $400 laptop bag, again with full shielding.The company is aiming to ship its off-grid accessories to Kickstarter backers starting from this September.NB: As with any effectivefaraday cage sleeve, when your devices are sealed inside youre not going to be able to get any of your messages  but of course, for some, anabsence of distractions might be another reason to temporarily step off-grid