Googles Cultural Institute, the companys initiative to preserve the worlds culture and history by bringing it online, has this morningunveiled a new project aimed at allowing web users the ability to view art up close  down to the very brushstrokes. Google had invented a new camera its dubbing the Art Camera, which is a custom-built, robotic camera capable of capturing gigapixel images quickly.This camera is steered by a robotic system across the painting in question, taking hundreds or even thousands of high-resolution close-ups. To focus precisely, it uses both a laser and sonar system. The latter uses high-frequency sound to measure the distance of the artwork to better position itself. Yes, the camera hears like a bat does, Google points out.Of course, capturing these images is only one feat  they then have to be assembled coherently. Googles software is capable of stitching the images together to create a single image, it says.These images are being shared online, so people can get as close to experiencing the art as possible, apart fromviewing it in real life.Many of the details found in paintings, after all, are those that you only see when you view the art in person by walking up to the canvas.There, you can see things like the way Impressionists combine dabs and dashes of paint to form an image that becomes clearer as you step back, or uncover hidden items likea hidden signature.Google has already shared around 200 gigapixel images online duringthe Google Cultural Institutes first five years, but the process before was slower, and involved highly specialized and expensive equipment, as well as highly trained individuals capable of doing the job. Now it has a smart robotic camera that can do the job instead, and much more quickly. Instead of a day, it could take just 30 minutes to scan a painting.That means Googlewill be able to greatly increase the number of these images made available to web surfers. In fact, it has already scanned another 1,000 images over the past few months with itsnew cameras. A small fleet of the cameras are also being loaned out to art museums for free. Not only will it help to bring more art online in detail, it can also help museums share those works that are fragile, sensitive to light and humidity, and cant always be on display.Today, the company is sharing the first thousand images it captured with the new cameras on theGoogle Cultural Institutes website, where youll find art fromPissarro, Signac, Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Monet and others from museums across Australia, India, the Netherlands, Brazil and elsewhere.The camera is also being used to bring collections of related art together in an interesting way. For example, if you wanted to viewVan Goghs six famous portraits of the Roulin family up close, Google explains you would have to travel to museums in the Netherlands, L.A. and New York. But with the Art Camera, Google captured the Portrait of Armand Roulin, which it has then placed alongsidethe rest of the familyall on one web page.Below, the art camera in action: