Good things are coming this month, and I dont just mean our Disrupt San Francisco eventnext week. Google just pulled the trigger on invites to a press event later this monthwhichcould see it unveilits nextNexus device, among other things.The company is inviting media toa morning conversation about some new treats from Google on September 29th.invite received pic.twitter.com/PKkdkcQLpG Frederic Lardinois (@fredericl) September 18, 2015Google isnt always predictable, as itsrecentdecision to split its divisions under Alphabet showed, but speculation surrounding new Google hardware has been palpable. CNET earlier this month said a Nexus launch was planned for the 29th, and theres been speculation that Google has tapped both LG and Huawei to build different sized phones under its Nexus brand. Additionally, the company announced the name of its next version of AndroidMarshmallow.The Nexus brand has proved popular in the past because it runs with a pure form of Android and is optimized for Googles mobile software, while devices arealso usually fairly inexpensive, but Google doesnt manufacture the phones itself.LG previously created theNexus 4 and Nexus 5 phones, but Huawei  a growing force in the global smartphone race  hasnt ever worked on the project. Its speculated that LG is working on a regular sized smartphone, with Huawei contracted to develop a larger handset.If true, that would be an interesting development that fits with trends in the market. Both Samsung  Galaxy Note 5 and Galaxy S6 Edge Plus  and Apple  iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus  have released little and large devices to suit different tastes, and it seems like a strategy that others are embracing too.That might not be all, however, since Google has been linked with a new version of Chromecast, its media streaming dongle. 9to5Google this week reportedthat Chromecast 2.0 will land later this month with a number of improvements such as faster WiFi connectivity, faster playing, multi-room support and improved audio feedback.Its worth noting that this will be the first major event with Sundar Pichai as the CEO of Google. Make no mistake, the invite comes from that entity and not Alphabet for a reason. Its important for Pichai to step in and discuss how all of the units at the company, including Android, are being developed together, in a streamlined way. In the past, it was very clear which teams at Google worked on what, from a design and a functionality standpoint. Under Pichais watch, thats changing.Its his show now, will he be hosting it?Well be there when Google makes its unveil on September 29th, so stay tuned for more details.