Googles popular photo management utility, Google Photos, whichwas spun out from Google+ this spring and soon grew to 100 million monthly active userswho have uploaded some 50 billion photos, is todaygetting even more useful. At least for Android users! The company says that an updated version of the app will now help users to free up storage space on their mobiledevices by offering them the option to bulk delete photos from their phone.Related to this, a downgrade image quality option will also be made available on the web version of Google Photos to giveusers who are approaching their Google storage limits an easy way to free up space on their Google account, too.Thanks to Googles ability to more deeply integrate its own Photos application on its Android platform, the Free up Space option is fairly seamless.On the Settings screen, you simply tap the new Free up Space buttonin order to begin the process of deleting photos from your phone en masse. To avoid accidental taps, Google says the app will ask you again to confirm that you want to delete your photos.In addition, the feature only deletes those photos that have already been backed up online, so you shouldnt need to worry about inadvertently deleting your only copy of yourimages.To highlight this features arrival, Google Photos is also introducing a new Assistant card. Assistantsare those automated features in the Photos app that do things for you  like turning your photo sets into animated GIF-like images, for example, or building montages.The new Assistant will alert users to delete photos when it detects youre nearing your storage limit on your device, says Google. This feature is only enabled for those who back up photos in Original or High Quality.Along with the release of the Free Up Space option, Android users will also receive a fix that will allow themto delete photos from certain SD-card-enabled devices. (A bug was preventing this from happening, and this has now been addressed, says Google).The other big update is arriving on Google Photos on the web on Wednesday and is aimed at helping users better control how theyre using their storage space on Googles cloud service. If you had previously been uploading your photos in Original quality (meaning, large files in full resolution), youll be able to change that to High quality to save space. High-quality files dont count against your Google storage quota.If you changed your mind about needing the full-resolution images, youll now be ableto click a new Recover Storage option on the web that will then automatically downgrade your photos for you.The updates are rolling out now to Google Photos on Android and tomorrow, on the web, but iOSusers do not yet have the same Free up Space option. That means theyll have to manually delete their photos following a Google Photos backup for the time being, or use one of the numerous apps aimed at helping you reclaim space on your iPhone.Google tells us, however, that similar features are arriving on iOS soon.Update: The Assistant card now shows for both high quality and original quality photos. The post has been corrected to reflect this.