The Apple Watch already had a healthy ecosystem of third-party applications when the smartwatch debuted in April, with some 3,500 apps available shortly after itslaunch, andmany of techs biggest names, like Instagram, Twitter, Evernote andothershaving announced their participation.However,one company whose apps have been notably missing from Apples new platform has beenGoogle. That justchanged, as the company has nowreleased its first Apple Watch app with an update to Google News & Weather for iOS.While not as exciting as getting a version of Google Maps for Apple Watch, the move indicates that Google is not ignoring Apples new smartwatchdue to its competitive nature with Googles own Android Wear platform. Thats promising because it means Google may consider bringing other properties to Apple Watch in the future, too.The Google News & Weather app is a good first step to test the Apple Watch waters, so to speak, as its similar to a number of news apps that have already launched on Apple Watch, including those from major news properties like NPR, CNN, or The NYT, for instance.The News & Weather app is relatively new to iOS, as well. It was first made available to Android users beforearriving on iOS last fall. It offers news summaries from 65,000 publications like what you would find on Google News on the web  with headlines grouped into familiar categories like Technology, Sports, or Fashion, for example. In addition, users can customize the app with their own personalized news sections on other topics, and they can access their local news and weather.Today, the app has been updated to support Apple Watch,which makes it the first of Googles numerous mobile properties to do so. The Watch app,like many of its competitors, offers users the ability to swipe through topheadlines from the watchs small screen.The app presents just under a dozen headlines thatyou can move through horizontally. Plus, you can scroll down to see an accompanying photo for eachstory. But the appdoesnt include the full story itself, or even a summarized version of the article, asThe New York Times Apple Watch app does. Nor does it support Handoff to allow you to continue reading the story on your iPhone.However, the updated app does offer the ability to save the news article to Safaris Reading List by way of Force Touch (a long press and hold gesture).Overall, the app is fairly basic  it doesnt even offer weather alerts. The appmakes more sense to use as a Glance, rather than something youd hunt for and launch from the Watchsscreenshowing all yourinstalled applications. Its hard to recommend the app as being worthy of download compared with the other news apps for AppleWatch  if anything, it feels more like an experiment at this point, rather than a solid smartwatch news-reading experienceif thats even going to be a thing.Weve asked Google to comment further on its Apple Watch strategy in light of this news, and will update if the company responds.Correction: Facebooks app was announced, but not yet live.