Today, Google acquired Fly Labs to join its Google Photos team. The company aimed to help people edit videos and photos and it sported 3 million downloads over the past 18 months. Their suite of apps (Tempo, Fly and Crop) will be made available for the next three months. Youll still be able to use them, but there will be no more updates.We're excited to announce that we've been acquired by Google! Read the announcement at https://t.co/1n36nlZtJ7! pic.twitter.com/zHvqfumsdY Fly Labs (@editonthefly) November 6, 2015We recently played around with their app Clips and it was pretty rad. See our interview below:Product Lead on Google Photos, David Lieb, shared some of his thoughts on the acquisition:3/Video is uniquely powerful for reliving memories, esp when combined with the machine learning of Google Photos. Lots to come! David Lieb (@dflieb) November 6, 2015Heres the note from the team on the acquisition. Terms were not disclosed.Were excited to announce that Fly Labs has been acquired by Google!Our mission at Fly Labs has always been simple: to help people make the most of their photos and videos. We make video editing apps because we believe that theres no better way to stay connected with your memories than by engaging with them creatively. In the last 18 months, our video editing apps have been downloaded more than 3 million times in over 150 different countries. More than 20 million videos have been created with apps made by Fly Labs.Were excited to continue on our mission by joining Google and the Google Photos team in Mountain View, California. Google Photos is a home for your lifes memories, powered by Googles machine learning and computer vision technology. Its a perfect match for what we built at Fly Labs, and were looking forward to folding our technology into Google Photos. Well be pouring the same passion into Google Photos that we poured into Clips, Fly, Tempo and Crop on the Fly.Meanwhile, as of today, all Fly Labs apps are completely free with no in-app purchases! The apps will be available on the App Store for another 3 months  so you can still download them and use them to get creative with video  but please note that we will not be submitting any more updates to the apps. Once the apps are removed from the App Store you will still be able to use them, but they will no longer be available for download.Wed like to thank our users, our beta testers, our investors, our friends, our families, and everybody who helped us get this far. Onwards and upwards!Love,
The Fly Labs TeamAfter breaking free from Google+ as its own product, Google Photos recently passed the 100M user mark. Those users have uploaded 50 billion photos and videos.