If you want to stream your music instead of buy tracks, there are more options than you can shake a stick at. Youve got Spotify, Rdio, XBox Music (Microsoft), Amazon, Apple Music and Google Playjust to name a few. One of the players, Google, which happens to have the worlds biggest search engine, has chosen to only recognize a few of them (that we can tell from doing simple Google searches and seeing previous participants).In an ad unit called PlayListen Now, which Google has been testing for a while, when you Google a song name youre presented with a few streaming optionsessentially links to try out Google Play, Spotify and Amazon.No Apple Music even though the test used to include the Apple-owned Beats streaming app. So Googles test has yanked Apple out completely (Or Apple pulled Beats, ala the test screenshots in August):These action ads are the latest thing that Google is working on, which are way more interesting than its existing ad links that show up at the top of results. In addition the PlayListen Now flavor, you can Watch Now and have food delivered to you right from search results.Theres no obvious rhyme or reason as to why certain companies are featured in the ads. Maybe theyre partners or maybe theyre paying for it?While Taylor Swift doesnt play nice with everyone in the streaming space, we do know that she plays nicely with more than just Google (Ahem, Apple.):In fact, her latest album (1989) isnt available on Google Play Music at all for streaming (you can buy tracks or the album).only Apple Music. Crazy, right?Kind of, but not really.Sigh.This is obviously a big deal because given Googles search market share, which always rides higher than 60 percent, it can make or break a business for a company. Sure, Apple probably doesnt *need* Google to make its Music a success, but Google is probably not interested in helping them launch successfully. I mean, the other services have links to web pages, but Google could easily send you off to iTunes if itwanted to. It doesnt. I do have to point out that YouTube offers links to buy tracks to songs on iTunes, so theres that.The really interesting part is that I guess Google isnt afraid of Spotify or Amazon, at least not enough to bury them a little bitor completely like they have with Apple.Nobody at Google is talking about it, since the PlayListen Now ad is only a test, but well be keeping an eye on the options it gives you.Think Google will end up Playingnice? OK, that was awful.