Google may be soon addingmore offline and private sharing featuresto its Google+ Photos service. It has acquiredOdysee, an iOS and Android app that let users automatically back up photos and videos taken on their cameras or tablets to their home computers. It also let users set up private, automatic sharing with other people, and it had an API for integrating the service with other apps (read our longer article about ithere). The app will be shut down effective February 23, with the team behind it joining Google+ to continue to focus on building amazing products that people love.The acquisitionwas announced viaa note on Odysees home page, as well as througha notificationbeing sentout to app users. In it, the startup thanks users and also notesthe details ofthe shut-down process. Essentially, after Odysee ceasesbackup operations on February 23, all photos and videos already passed through the service will be available as a downloadable archive.Were embedding the full note below.Furthermore, weve found that Odysee the app is no longer available in Apples App Store and in Google Play; and it looks like theaccount for its maker, Nimbuz Inc., has also been pulled.We have contacted Odysee, Nimbuz Inc. and Google to see if we can get any more details about the acquisition and the decision to sell rather than remain a standalone service. Its unclear how many users Odysee had attracted in its lifetime, or whether it had managed to attracted more investors beyond the $760k it had raised in seed money. Previous investors included Ed Han, a repeat entrepreneur, including asfounder of Tiny Prints (acquired byShutterstock) and Alex Shubat, the CEO of food tech company Goji Food Solutions, among other things.For now you can see where the acquisition makes a lot of sense for Google.There have beenrumors swirlingthat Google might launch Photos as a standalone service, independent of Google+. Adding in options to save photos offline, and more features to better control how you share pictures, are logical additions thatwould giveGoogle Photos service a more rounded offering, and help differentiate it more from other competing photo services. Others in the crowded space of online photo services include Facebook/Instagram, Yahoos Flickr, Dropbox and many more.And even as a part of Google+, considering how warysome people are these days ofgivingover more data to Googles cloud  or any other cloud-based service like Dropbox or iCloud, for that matter  it makes sense to enhance Photos with offline features for that reason, too.Odysee, which let people log in with Facebook or by creating an account, was anapp created by Nimbuz, co-foundedby Raghavan Menon and Shiva Javalagi. As Sarah wrote in a profile of the app last year, both founders have a background in networking, algorithms, caching and embedded software. Menon previously co-founded chip designer Ingot Systems, which was acquired by Virage Logic (and later acquired by Synopsys).One of the interesting things about Odysee  especially designed for people who take a lot of videos and would like the option of saving them at their full quality  was that it shifted the storage option to your own computer rather than any public cloud. Atthe same time it had developed a caching feature that letusers access those pictures even if the computer was offline or working on a slow Internet connection.Odysee keeps copies of recently accessed photos and videos online at high quality. Odysee keeps copies of photos and videos that are unlikely to be accessed (it predicts what is likely to be accessed) online at lower quality similar to that on Instagram or Facebook, the company noted in its FAQ. You always have a version of everything online.Another featurethat set it apart from other photo services was the appss approach to sharing with others. It had its ownfollower and following network that was based around the idea of adding a small group of close family and friends who would also be on the app, with the option of sharing more pictures to non-Odysee users by way of URL links rather than embeds.Like other many other apps,Odysee was built around a freemium model: free for the first year, and then $5/year thereafter. The founders had at one point estimated that they could keep the business sustainable if they reached 3 million users.Update: Google confirmed the acquisition but nothing more. I can confirm the news and that theyre joining the Google+ team. We arent sharing more beyond that at this point, a spokesperson wrote in an email.A video of the service is below, andthe farewell letter is underneath that: