After Googles decision not to provide end-to-end encryption by default in its new chat app, Allo, raised questions about the balance of security and effective artificial intelligence, one of the companys top security engineers saidhed push for end-to-end encryption to become the default in future versions of Allo.Allo debuted with an option to turn on end-to-end encryption, dubbed incognito mode. Google obviously takes security seriously, but had to compromise on strong encryption in Allo in order for its AI to work. (Allo messages are encrypted in transit and at rest.)Thai Duong, an engineer who co-leads Googles product security team, wrote in a blog post today that hed push for end-to-end encryption in Allo  then quietly deleted two keyparagraphs from his post. In the version he originally published, Duong wrote:The burning question now is: if incognito mode with end-to-end encryption and disappearing messages is so useful, why isnt it the default in Allo?I wish its the default (because its my feature haha :), but even if it is not default all is not lost. I cant promise anything now, but Im pushing for a setting where users can opt out of cleartext messaging. Basically with one touch you can tell Allo that you want to Always chat in incognito mode going forward, and from that moment on all your messages will be end-to-end encrypted and auto-deleted. You can still interact with the AI, but only if you specifically invoke it, so you dont have to give up everything for your privacy gain. This is the best of both worlds, until someone figures out how to do homomorphic machine learning.These two paragraphs have been erased from the version of Duongs post that is currently live.This edit probably doesnt mean that Duong wont continue to lobby internally for end-to-end encryption  his job is to make Googles products as secure as possible. But Google, like most major companies, is pretty cagey about revealing its plans for future products and likely didnt want Duong to reveal on his personal blog whats next for Allo.Even without the paragraphs on end-to-end encryption, Duongs post offers interesting insight into Googles thinking as it planned to launch Allo. For users who care about the security of their messaging apps, Duong highlights that its not encryption that matters most to Allo, but rather the disappearing message feature.Most people focus on end-to-end encryption, but I think the best privacy feature of Allo is disappearing messaging, Duong wrote.This is what users actually need when it comes to privacy. Snapchat is popular because they know exactly what users want.Duong also confirmed the likely reason Google didnt choose to enable end-to-end encryption in Allo by default: doing so would interfere with some of the cool AI features Allo offers. For users who dont choose to enable end-to-end encryption, Allo will run AI that offers suggestions, books dinner reservations and buys movie tickets. But the AI wont work if it cant scan a users messages, and it gets locked out if the user enables end-to-end encryption.We reached out to Google to ask if the company asked Duong toedit to his blog post and will update if we hear back.Duong stressed that the post only reflected his personal beliefs, not those of Google  and we hope his advocacy for a default incognito mode comes to fruition.