In 2013, Googleexpanded its Hangouts video conferencing service into a commerce platform called Helpouts, where peoplebuy and sell services like cooking or technical advice via live video. Now Google has developed another new service based on its Hangouts infrastructure.It is running a live video chat service forwould-be buyers of Google smartphones, tablets andChromebooks (but not Nest products) to ask Google Device Experts questions and chat about the products before sealing the deal.(And unlike Helpouts, this service is free.)We were tipped off to the service by someof the people working on the project, and Google has confirmed some of the details.Were always improving features to help our users, said a spokesperson. Were in a limited trial of an experimental support feature and gathering feedback, so we arent ready to share full plans yet.Our sources provide some more information. The service, which went live quietly in November, is initially being run as a test through the Devices channel ofGoogle Play, but Google wantsto extend the idea to more places, both virtual and physical.They are also planning to go into retail stores with a virtual help desk to enhance the shopping experience, a source tells us, who describedthe bigger project as Googles virtual Genius Bar, referring tothe Apple Retail in-store operation where Apple employees, lined up behind a bar, offer in-person technical support on Apple devices. Its not clear yethow far along Google is in implementing this concept of avirtual help desk in retail locations.It also bears a resemblance to Amazons Mayday service, the companys tech support system introduced in 2013 that currently works only on Kindle Fire HDX, Kindle Fire HDX 8.9, Fire HDX 8.9, and Fire Phone devices and in a limited number of countries. Unlike Mayday, Googles video helpercurrently does not cover straight tech support.The feature for now is only live between 6am and 6pm Pacific time, and to get to it, you navigate through the online Google Play Store to the Devices category. There, you select the help icon in the upper right corner, and if you indicate you are interested in buying a device, you are given the option of making a video call to ask more questions.In my test of it, my call was answered within seconds. The smileywoman at the other end of the Hangout knew I was calling from the UK, and was happy to answer all of my questions about Google devices and to show me more details if needed on a second video demonstration screen. Also, she didnt seem disappointed at all when I told her I wasnt really buying anything, andwas just a journalist trying out the service.Google Device Experts isbeing run within Google but with contractors from an external company called Milestone Technologies. Milestonealsopartners withApple, Cisco, Palo Alto Networks and others and provides various services like IT support, contact center services, and professional services.Developing a service like this pulls together different businesses and strategies for Google in its move to diversify away from its core business as a search engine. It emphasizesits cloud-based, live video technology. Its aimed at driving more sales of its hardware. And (potentially) it bringsGoogle deeper into the physical retail commerce. It would be interesting to see if Google, in its growing suite of enterprise services, eventually offers some part of a service like thisto other businesses.Well provide updates on the service as we learn more.