Googles digital policy pantomime on the theme ofEuropes so-called Right To Be Forgotten (rtbf) ruling has deliveredits finalconclusions,with the publication of a report by the Google-appointed and Google-styled Advisory Council,following a series of Google-arranged public debates last year.The Google-led report had been expected last month, so it has not been delivered without any humps.There was disagreement among some Council members on what conclusions they should draw  so even Googles chosen few did not entirely align with Googles view. But in the end the groupwent with a majority view to resolve itssticking points.Quick catch up here: the rtbf refers to aright, under European privacy and data protection law, for private individuals to request that particular search engine results are delisted whena name-search is performed, and when the information they wish to be delisted is old, outdated or irrelevant. The ruling requiresthat search engines also weigh up any public interest in findingthe information. Where there is a public interest, a delisting request shouldbe denied.NB: thesource content itself is not removed from the Internet  this is purely about delisting search engine linksthat are associated with a search for a private individuals name.Europes top court, the European Court of Justice (ECJ), handed down the judgement that search engines are data controllers in May last year.The Councils report includes a series of (entirely non-binding, non-legal) recommendations for how the group of (mostly) non-Googlestaff, who have expertise in areas such as data protection, media law, philosophy and ethics, believe Google should be proceeding in implementing the ECJ ruling at this point. A full list of theCouncil memberscan be foundhere.Its unclear how much input Google itself has had into the contentsof the report  the group claims the documentas its own. However the public evidence sessions held by the Council last year were organized by Google, and included participation from high-profile Google executives such as Eric Schmidt and its chief legal officer David Drummond  and they are listed by the report as convenors. Soit seems unlikely there has been noback-and-forth between the Google-appointed groupand the company whichconjured itinto being. In any case, thetheatrical gestureof conveningan Advisory Council was entirelymanufactured by Google to try to shape the debate around a European legal ruling that it does not like.The report itself is relatively brief, andhighlightsfive key procedural elements, as the groupsees it, withadvice/recommendations for howGoogle should proceed on each of these points. Itsfull five suggestions are summarized by me (below). The Council also listscriteria it believesGoogle shoulduse to weigh delisting requests such as anypublic role a requester has, and the types of information the groupthinks should bias towards privacy (such as the information being false; pertaining to a persons sex life; being personal contact information such as their address and phone number; or the data subject being a minor), and towards public interest (such as the information being true; or relating to political or religious discourse; or to public or consumer health; or relating to criminal activity; or being what they term integral to the historical record, or to scientific inquiry or artistic expression).The report also reiterates what the rtbf actually is and isnt  noting for instance that it does notin fact, despite its colloquial moniker, confer a general right to be forgotten. Afinal portion of the documentsummarizessome alternativeideas and technical proposals foradjudicating and assisting the rtbf implementation that were put forward by individuals asked to submit views to the Councillast year as part of the process of it formulating its advice.The Councils key five procedural suggestions are:The most high-profileissue the Council has chosen to focus on isthe question ofextraterritoriality. Aka whether delistings should take place on Google.com, as well as on Googles European sub-domains. Googles Schmidt commented on this in public last October, at one of the Councils public meetings, and the report regurgitatesmuch of what he said.Google has continued to only delist onEuropean sub-domains, not on Google.com  despite specific guidelines issued by European privacy regulatorsin November specifying that it should delist from Google.com too in order to preventa trivialbypass of the law. So theCouncil isaligning with Googles position here, setting itself against the European data protection regulators view  although it does also note that implementing the ruling on Google.comwould comprise a more absolute protection of individuals privacy rights.However the Council view here isonly amajority conclusion. Oneclear dissenting voice is German MP, Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, who sets out her disagreements within the report in a section reserved for individual Council members comments.She writes:According to my opinion the removal request comprises all domains, and must not be limited to EU-domains. This is the only way to implement the Court`s ruling, which implies a complete and effectiveprotection of data subjects` rights. The internet is global, the protection of the user`s rights must also beglobal. Any circumvention of these rights must be prevented. Since EU  residents are able to researchglobally the EU is authorized to decide that the search engine has to delete all the links globally.So far I share the guidelines published by Article 29 Data Protection Working Party.Thefull report  including Leutheusser-Schnarrenbergers other objections  can be readhere.Regardless of the reports majority recommendations that Google thumb its nose at European law, it remains to be seen whether the company will do so (weve asked Google whether it intends to extent search delisting decisions to Google.com and will update this story with any response. Update: see statements below). The Advisory Council has no special powers here, beyond the ability(Google hopes)to anoint Googles position with a little self-selected outsider expertise and thus apply pressure to regulatory bodies whichwill be the ones tasked with reining Googlein.Mountain View is no stranger to regulatory fights in Europe so may well seek to drag its heels on rtbf extraterritorialityto see how much appetiteindividual E.U. Member States data protection authorities have for another fighton an issue that is complex and can be spun as legally overreaching asEurope trying to imposeits laws on the rest of the world.A spokeswoman for the European Commission confirmed to TechCrunch itwill be up to Member States to ensure Google complies with the law.It goes without saying that the Court of Justice ruling will have to be respected. The Article 29 working groups guidelines from last November are designed to guarantee the uniform implementation of the ruling across Europe.It remains under the responsibility of Member States through their national data protection authorities to ensure the proper application of data protection rules, she said.A Google spokesperson provided TechCrunch with the following bland statement on global removals, with no change evident in its implementation position as yet:Weve been working hard to strike the right balance in implementing the European courts ruling. We think its important to be transparent about removals, whilst also protecting individual privacy, and were applying the ruling across the whole of Europe.Frances CNIL, for one, is sharpening its claws for a fight with Google. Gwendal Le Grand, director of technology and innovation at the French data protection authority, told TechCrunch:EU law cannot be circumvented, and went on to reiterate the guidelines publishedby the Article 29 working party last November. This is where we stand as data protection authorities. And we hope that the search engines are going to comply with this, he said.In France for sure we will request delisting on all the relevant domains including the dot-com. And we have a certain number of powers inthe French law to request this from Google so we will use those powers if Google does not comply with this guidance.We can give injunctions and sanctions, he added. What is clear in the court ruling is that the delisting has to be effective for all these extensions [i.e. dot-com and the European sub-domains]. This is what we said at the Article 29 level. In the case of Google, since they have a worldwide processing of personal data through the search engine, and that asearch engine can be accessed through different paths, if you want, using these different extensions, it means that we will request worldwide delisting in the case of the French data protection authority.The enforcement is at national level so as far as the French data protection authority is concerned, this is what we will request from Google Google is free to have its own interpretation but at the end of the day the court has recognized that the authorities have a controlling power over the decisions made by the search engines and if they dont comply with the court ruling we can request them to comply with the ruling, and we have powers at a national level for that  including penalties.The U.K.s ICO is more circumspect at this point. It told TechCrunch the extraterritoriality questionis a complex issue and saidit is still weighing up its position.This is a complicated issue, both legally and technically, said an ICO spokesman. Clearly it is important that any search result that is delisted is done so effectively, but the demand on a search engine to do this is placed under European law, which brings some limitations. Weve been working on getting greater clarity on this since the Article 29 guidance was published, and it is likely to be a topic for further discussion with our European counterparts and the search engines.We have not confirmed our final position at this stage.Asked about media outlets publication of rtbf takedown notices  which has had the effect, as noted above, of drawing more attention to the information at the moment when an individual is trying to exercise their privacy rights  CNILsLe Grand suggested that data protection authorities will be taking action on that too, and addedthere is no legal basis for Google to be routinely informing publishers of delisting requests (as it isdoing now).Its a way to circumvent your action, he noted. Once again the basis for this, the fact that we explain there should be no circumvention of the decision, and there is no legal basis for routine communication [by Google] to websites editors under EU data protection law. So this makes it pretty clear. If I publish the list of requests that I received and the rationale for the requests and things like this its not in line with the [ECJ] decision.Update 2:Google has now provided the following statement from its chief legal officer, David Drummond, via email: Its been valuable to hear a wide range of viewpoints in recent months across Europe and well carefully consider this report. Were also looking closely at the guidance given by Europes data protection authorities as we continue to work on our compliance with the CJEU ruling.