What is your favorite food? What was your first teachers name? Whats the name of your first pet? Do those questions sound familiar to you? If they do, its probably because you either have really boring and repetitive conversations or youve answered them as security questions when you signed up for a new account somewhere. Theyre meant to provide an extra layer of security, but according to a new study by Googles security team, they arent all that secure.Looking at hundreds of millions of these questions and their answers from Google users who tried to recover their accounts, the team concluded that secret questions are neither secure nor reliable enough to be used as a standalone account recoverymechanism. Thats because they are either too easy to remember (and hence to guess) or too hard to remember (and hence easy to forget). There doesnt seem to be much of a middle ground.Chances are, for example, that when you try to guess what an English-speaking user said was his or her favorite food, guessing pizza would get you a long way (almost 20 percent of Google users apparently used this as their answer). Using 10guesses, theres also a 21 percent chance of guessing a Spanish speakers fathers middle name. In a country where most of the population lives in a few very large cities, chances are you can also quickly guess where they were born (think South Korea, for example).It also turns out that 37 percent of users simplyfake it tomake their live easier. Google found, for example, that many users would provide the same answer for questions like Whats your phone number? and Whats your frequent flyer number? even though those are most likely completely different.In total, 40 percent of English-speaking users in the U.S. couldnt recall their questions at all. People who actually used the frequent flier question, for example, only remembered the right answer in 9 percent of cases.So if one question is easy to guess, the logical next step would be to add more questions, which some systems do. That makes it harder for attackers to guess them correctly, but then the chances of the user alsorecalling both correctly drops, too.Googles researchers argue that site owners should use SMS backup codes, secondary email addresses and other means to securely authenticate users and only use these questions as a methodwhen everything else has failed.