How much do mobile users hate interstitial screens blockingtheir mobile browsing byurging them to down the native app instead? An overwhelming amount, judging by a study conductedby Google in July last year. Well, that andcommon sense when you think aboutthe contrast between the aimof mobilecomputing (speed, convenience) and the pointof interstitials (slow, distract).The ad gianthas just blogged about the result of its study, saying it found almost two-thirds (69 per cent) of visitors served with an interstitial for its Google+ social service abandoned the page entirely neither downloading the app, nor going on to visit the mobile website attributingthisto theaddedfriction of serving mobile users with aninterstitial.Tl;dr: people on mobile dont dig interruptions, yo!On the flip-side, Googlefound that9 per cent of the visits to the Google+interstitial page resulted in the Get App button being pressed. And while that might sound crazy high (vs online ad click rates, for instance) Googlepoints outthat a proportion of thosewho pressed Get Appwould already have hadthe app installed. Or might havenever followed through anddownloaded it. So its a very diluted signal ofsuccess, at best.Add to that,many mobile users may well have also simply hit the Get App buttonin error, since those buttonstends to be a lot larger than the continue to mobile site links. Ergo,the much larger proportion whoimmediatelyrage quit at the sight of the G+ interstitial speaks loudest here.Its worth noting that Googles study was small scale, since the companywas only looking athow an interstitial promoting theGoogle+ social service native app performed (and we dont know how many people it surveyed). It may very well be the case that visitors really didnt want the Google+ app specifically and that Google+ itself is skewing the data. (SadlyGoogle isnot offering comparative stats with, say, the Gmail app interstitial, so we can but speculate.)It does sayit rana follow up experiment, switching the Google+ interstitial for what it calls a Smart App Banner  to continue promoting the native app in a less intrusive way. And  quelle surprise  this more softly, softly approach performedbetter, with Google noting that 1-day active users to the Google+ website increased by 17 per cent.Meanwhile it saysGoogle+ iOS native app installs were mostly unaffected, in its assessment  dropping two per cent. (Android users get Google+ preinstalled already, hence the iOS-only measure. That may also be another factor why such a large proportion of those served the native app ad got annoyed; after all,who would appreciate beingnagged about an appby thesame company that hasalreadypre-installed that app on yourphone?)As a result of running the study, Google says it decided to permanently retire the Google+ interstitial. Although, sad to say, ithas not ditchedall its interstitials.For example, every time I am requiredto re-sign-in to the TC ownerscorporate Gmail on mobile to access my work email I still have an additional click standing in the way ofthe content Im trying to access, being as Google always serves an interstitial (right) promoting the Gmail app. And, for corporate device management policy reasons, I cant actually use the app and need to use the mobile site So its pure, teeth-grinding time-wasting, every time I have to log back in.GooglesG+ interstitial study is a teaser in terms ofdata it yields, but ithighlights the continuing challenge of serving any kind of ad on mobile without radicallyannoying users. It alsoshows Google is lookingfor ways toreduce the friction, as it puts it, ofmobile ads.Youd expect the company to be thinking pro-actively about this, given its business model relies on ad clicks to power it. And itcertainly wont want the general shift from desktop to mobile computingto end up acting like an interstitialretardingthe flow of itsad-based revenue stream.