Chrome OS, the cloud operating system that Google introduced for laptops, and Android, the operating system on phones and tablets, may become one, according to a report by the Wall Street Journal. The folding could happen as early as next yearcould be introduced at next years I/Oor not.Ive spoken to sources over the past few years about it, and some played the one could imagine game when discussing a merger of the two projects. The chatter increased when Android co-founder Andy Rubin left the company last year.What we do know is that neither operating system is being killed off.Heres the deal. Mobile rules the world, and Googles CEO Sundar Pichai (he previously oversaw Chrome, Chrome OS, Apps and added Android to his purview in 2013) stated as such during Alphabets recent earnings call. Its no secret. There are elements of Android that make it a far superior operating system than Chrome OS. But you know what? Chrome OS does a hell of a job relying on Googles browser, which is by the far the top browser among internetters.What Chrome OS lacks is native apps, and thats what gets developers excited and consumers minds swirling about possibilities. In fact, Chrome OS is quite boring. So boring that schools love them. Big companies are taking a look at them. Because of Google Apps. Chrome OS always felt like it could be a mode that you should be able to turn on within Android. For when you had a shitty Internet connection or just wanted the bare bones to get work done. Regardless, the ecosystem is alive and well.If Pichais cry for mobile, mobile, mobile werentenough to tip the hand that this may happen, the announcement of the Pixel C sure was. A kinda-laptop-tablet-running-full-on-Android.Then theres the Fast Company articlethat featured Hiroshi Lockheimer (SVP Android, Chrome OS and Chromecast at Google), where this topic kinda/sorta/definitely came up:Toward the end of our conversation, I asked Lockheimer how much time he spent thinking about Androids and Chrome OSs future past the next release or two, and what they might look like a few years from now. I thought I was giving him an opportunity to wax eloquent on pie-in-the-sky stuff. Instead, he stayed practical, and said that developing operating systems cant be done in isolation from the components they use and the devices theyll run on. Running engineering for these two operating systems requires him to think about everything from chips to merchandising.In the same piece, he pointed to the fact that you can unlock a Chrome OS laptop with an Android phone. You get the idea.Basically, knowledge sharing happens and learnings are known.The whats and whens arent known, but I can tell you that all of the work that Google does feeds its beast. Whether products come and go or get folded into other things, the decisions come with all of the work and learnings that have been done to back them up. Hits feed prior misses. Misses feed new hits. The company is a nesting doll when it comes to products and code, witheach new thing somehow relying on the last thing.I tend to think of things as all instead of either/or when it comes to Google (and its mothership, Alphabet).