Google Photos wants to be home to all of your photos (and videos). Whether you have a thumb drive, CD, DVD or undeveloped film laying around, the team wants you to consider uploading them to the service. Why? Because thats when they can make the magic happen.Right now, Google Photos will wade through all of your treasured visuals and turn them into animations and stories or drop effects on them. You get alerted on the web or through the apps via the Assistant. Its a nice little notification to get that something has been created with zero effort.I chatted with the Product Lead for Google Photos Search, Chris Perry, about the latest automatic toy for Photos, Rediscover This Day. It does exactly what you think itd do, brings up photos from say, three years ago, and lets you reminisce about the past (or piss you offmore on that later.) Its available for the web and both Android and iOS apps.Its kind of like Timehop and Facebooks memories  but not really. It wont bother you daily unless you had a worthwhile group of photos to show you.I asked Perry how they can make this interesting without it becoming annoying fast (which Timehop has for me), and he says:Visual quality of photos are taken into account. No screenshots. Well look at photos taken over a longer timespan, something that was more of an event. Something thats going to emotionally resonate. We look at the presence of landmarks. Those get promoted to collages. People is a strong signal that well use to help remind you.Ive openly asked in the past, what are we going to do with all of these photos? and its a question that this product is aiming to answer. Perry explained that this particular feature saw the light of day because it was fun: The biggest reason why Ive been championing this feature is the amount of joy that Ive gotten from my groupings.I have over 20Kpictures stored on Google Photos and its a service I visit once every few weeks, at best. Most of the reason for that is because I forget it exists, and I have to imagine that most of the other people who use the service would say the same.Dropping little hooks into the product to draw people back is pretty smart, especially when youve chose, as Google apparently has, to stop focusing on the social components of Google Photos. Sure, you can share a photo, animation or collection with someone, but its not the same as being tagged on Facebook or Instagram, which is retention candy.Speaking of sharing, Google Photos will now let you push an animation out to Facebook as a GIF and to Instagram and WhatsApp as a video. Againjust social enough to get by.The rediscover feature doesnt come without its issues, though, mostly issues that follow Google Photos as it stands today. A cool part of Google Photos search is that you can search via people, places or things. Its nifty to search for dog and then have every photo that has anything resemble a dog come back as a result.However, sometimes there are certain things, or people, that youd rather not have come up in search or Google Photos spend time on animating. Say, ex-girlfriends of boyfriends, etc. You get the idea.Perry tells me that this is something on the teams mind, but there are currently no features in place that let me exclude something thats been grouped on Google Photos. Thats a problem with any memory feature or service, because you usually dont know whatll trigger you until it does. The feature is opt-out, but sadly not customizable.Nothings perfect, right? Anyways, what else am I going to do with all of the photos that I have?