While Google continues to build out cell towers in the sky in the form of balloons and solar-powered airplanes, its also gearing up to launch an experimental mobile network in the U.S. Today, Googles SVP of products, Sundar Pichai, said that we should start to see the results of thecompanys MVNO mobile network effort in the coming months in the U.S., merging cell and WiFi networks in a seamless way.The comments were madetoday at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, where Pichai was on stage for an interview where hedescribed the companys effortsin a bit more detail when asked about the companys mobile network efforts and specifically the MVNO.On the subject of aGoogle branded network in the form of an MVNO, Pichai referred to Android and how it has built that out.The core of Android and everything we do is to take an ecosystem approach and [a network would have]the same attributes. We havealways tried to push the boundary with the innovations in hardware and software, he said. Wewant to experiment along those lines. We dont intend to be a network operatorat scale. We are actually working with carrier partners. Willannounce something in the coming months.A report from last Aprilnoted that Google was speaking with Verizon Wireless for the service, although today Pichai did not mention any specific carriers or WiFi providers by name.Does Google have a conviction to offerlower prices? interviewer Brad Stone asked. This is, after all, one of the biggest issues with mobile services for consumers: they are very expensive, and are ripe for disruption on this front. Its a bit different than this, Pichai said. We arethinking about how WiFiand cell networks work togetherand how to make that seamless.The company has also been working on building out fixed networks through Google Fibre. These too have seen limited rollouts in specific cities, and that could prove to be a model for how its mobile network might evolve.Googles efforts in mobile networks are, quite literally,coming out of thin air: the company has also been working on Project Loon and Titan (which came out of Googles acquisition of Titan Aerospace), two projects that are respectively putting balloons and solar-powered planes into the sky to provide internet connectivity in remote areas and emerging markets. Pichai says that the company has now gotten its Loon balloons to work for six month stretches.Project Titanwill take its first major steps in coming few months, he said. project blink, loom and titan. These are our access efforts to provide a backbone to the world, he noted. Cell towers in the sky.