Google is moving beyond Cardboard.The company willreportedlybe announcing a standalone Android VR headset at next weeks Google I/O event. Entrepreneur and former tech journalistPeter Rojashas tweeted thatGooglewill launch an untethered Android VR headset next weekaccording to his multiple sources.Android VR will definitely be announced next week, and from what Ive heard will be less powerful than the Vive or Rift. Peter Rojas (@peterrojas) May 11, 2016Rojas noted his sources had confirmed that the headset will be less powerful than the Vive or Rift, which given its standalone mobile nature is no surprise. The high-powered PC graphics cards needed to run the Oculus Rift or HTC Vive setups cost at least $300-ish by comparison, and are quite bulky.The price point is the critical note for Google to hit here. Cardboard has worked so well because all consumers have neededto do isslot their smartphone into a $15 cardboard headset and immediately dive into the experience. With a standalone product, Google willhave to build something that moves past the power of high-endsmartphones and delivers superior optics but is priced aggressively.Correct. Android VR will be a standalone headset. https://t.co/66NibcpfxK Peter Rojas (@peterrojas) May 11, 2016Samsunghas gotten an early advantage in the mobile VR space with the Gear VR, but it has done so by selling the headset(which requires a compatible Galaxy or Note device) at only $99. Samsunghad more than one million people on the Gear VR platform last month, undoubtedly the fruits of Samsung and select carriers giving the headset away for free with S7 pre-orders.Google hasspent much of its VR efforts over the past two years enticing developers to produce simple VR content. Cardboard as a gateway drug to VR has proven quite successful for Google, though theres still a long way to go in garnering the interests of content creators. More than 5 million Cardboard-compatible VR headsets have already shipped.TechCrunch will bereportingfromGoogle I/O next week in Mountain View to see whats next for Google in the virtual reality space.Withrumorsof tighter VR integration withinAndroid N, its likely that I/O will see a host of VR-related announcements.