Google is joining the OpenStack Foundation as the open source projects newest corporate sponsor, the two organizations announced today. Google, which has informally collaborated with OpenStack on a number of projects like the Murano application catalog and in the Magnum container orchestration service in the past, will contribute engineering resources to the project.Somewhat unsurprisingly, the focus of Googles participation will be on Linux containers and integrating the Google-incubated Kubernetes container management tool into OpenStack.Google is signing up under the corporate sponsor level, which includes a$25,000-per-year sponsorship commitment. Access to the projects Platinum and Gold ranks is limited (there can only be 24 Gold members at any given time, for example). OpenStacks other corporate sponsors include the likes of Alcatel-Lucent, Citrix, Comcast, Cray, GoDaddy, Fujitsu, Oracle, SAP, Nokia and the Linux Foundation. More than the (by Google standards) small financial commitment, though, Googles participation is almost a symbolic gesture given the companys previous involvement in the project.OpenStack is a strong community that is creating a full stack for private infrastructure-as-a-service clouds, Google Cloud Platform product manager Craig McLuckie told us when we asked him about Googles reasons for joining the project. As we look to the future of computing, there is a growing awareness and interest from enterprises in cloud native computing  a model that was developed by internet companies to solve tough challenges of operating at internet scale.He also noted that Googles own approach of using commodity hardware to power its data centersreduced the burden of running distributed systems for it and other internet companies  something enterprises are also looking to do with OpenStack. It turns out that this approach to managing apps works just as well for enterprises, but the barriers to entry have been too high for many, he said. Google is committed to helping the community make the transition to a new paradigm and has become quite active in the open source world. An example of this is Kubernetes, our next generation container orchestrator was built in the open.Chances are then than Googles involvement doesnt mean the company will soon offer OpenStack as a service on its Cloud Platform (though you can already run OpenStack on Googles servers yourself). Instead, Google is probably mostly interested in establishing Kubernetes as the standard container manager in both OpenStack and on its own platform so that businesses can move their workloads between their on-premise OpenStack clouds and use Googles public cloud to scale out as necessary.The role of containers has long been discussed in the OpenStack ecosystem. Withthe latest (bi-annual) releases, the project has decided that it will integrate containers into its system, just like it has done with VMs and similar technologies. As OpenStackCOO Mark Collier noted during the projects latest conference in Vancouver, OpenStack sees itself as an integration engine. OpenStack is a platform that frees users to run proven technologies like VMs as well as new technologies like containers, said Collier in todays announcement. With Google committing unequaled container and container management engineering expertise to our community, the deployment of containers via proven orchestration engines like Kubernetes will accelerate rapidly.