I remember meeting Greg Gopman for the first time several years ago at a Facebook mobile hackathon. He had just moved from Miami and was in full-on hustler mode.Newcomers to the Valley are a varied sort. Some are idealists, spewing truisms from Steve Jobs keynotes. Some see stories aboutbillion-dollar acquisitions and have pretty thinly-concealed ambitions of validation through funding rounds, TED talks and magazine covers without understanding that the path takes years. And existential crises. Many existential crises.But Silicon Valley is not like New York or Los Angeles. If you are so inclined, you can show up not knowing anyone and then network your whole way around the place in a single year. Silicon Valley is heterarchical, not hierarchical. It is part of how the region reinvents itself constantly, but the Valleys openness to the young and starry-eyed also attracts plentyof wantrepreneurs.Gopmans talent is admittedly in business development. Hes not technical. But hes doggedin other ways. He snuck into a TechCrunch Disrupt hackathon once, walked away with an honorable mention and somehow managed to get backstage where he sat behind Jack Dorsey, who was a judge. Then he started putting together hackathons that competed with Disrupt both here and in the Philippines, Singapore and other Asian markets. It looked like one of those classic fake-it-til-you-make-it stories.Then one night after landing at the San Francisco International Airportfrom Asia, he killed all of his momentum by posting a Facebook update in the middle of the night:Just got back to SF. Ive traveled around the world and I gotta say there is nothing more grotesque than walking down market st in San Francisco. Why the heart of our city has to be overrun by crazy, homeless, drug dealers, dropouts, and trash I have no clue. Each time I pass it my love affair with SF dies a little.The difference is in other cosmopolitan cities, the lower part of society keep to themselves. They sell small trinkets, beg coyly, stay quiet, and generally stay out of your way. They realize its a privilege to be in the civilized part of town and view themselves as guests. And thats okay.In downtown SF the degenerates gather like hyenas, spit, urinate, taunt you, sell drugs, get rowdy, they act like they own the center of the city. Like its their place of leisure In actuality its the business district for one of the wealthiest cities in the USA. It a disgrace. I dont even feel safe walking down the sidewalk without planning out my walking path.You can preach compassion, equality, and be the biggest lover in the world, but there is an area of town for degenerates and an area of town for the working class. There is nothing positive gained from having them so close to us. Its a burden and a liability having them so close to us. Believe me, if they added the smallest iota of value Id consider thinking different, but the crazy toothless lady who kicks everyone that gets too close to her cardboard box hasnt made anyones life better in a while.To be fair, I (unfortunately) run into otherpeople with these kinds of beliefs. Theyre just not dumb enough to publish them.But Gopman did.Heended up in ValleyWag with a post called Happy Holidays: Startup CEO Complains SF Is Full of Human Trash. And in Slate, The Huffington Post, The Daily Mail, ThinkProgressandthe Bay Guardian.Gopmans Deep DiveSince Gopman works on the sales and business development side, it pretty much destroyed his career. Anytime he would cold call or do any kindof outbound outreach,that singleFacebook post wasthe top  I dont know  10 pages of his search results.But he also understood that he had fallen face-firstinto something he didnt understand.So Gopmanspent the last year studying homelessness and partnering with groupslike the Downtown Streets Team.He wrote about his yearlong explorationlast weekon Medium:Over time, and with a lot of help from friends, research and volunteering, I came to see the many reasons why people become homeless, and the near impossible road to recovery they all share. That theyre a group of people suffering, depressed and lost in a system that they cant find their way out of. And that its everyones responsibility to figure out a way to help.A few weeks ago, I stopped by his place. Gopman had convened a group of non-profits and homeless advocatesfor a meeting.A formerly homeless woman talked abouthow she was overcome with depression after caring for her dying mother. She had raised severalchildren, who had gone onto college and graduate school.But her mothers death broke her spirit. She walked out of the door of her house, which was underwater after therecession, and didnt look back. She slepton the streets for months.She described the complex calculusof being homelessness  which bus line to get on to find a shower and what time each meal kitchen was open.The first thing you think about when you wake up every morning is where to relieve yourself, she said. (For those of yousharing that San FranciscoPoop Map, thats why there is so human excrement on the sidewalk.)A Little Bit of BackgroundWhile I havent looked intohomelessness to the same extentthat Ivestudiedthe housing market or residential segregation in the Bay Area, I can tell you that it is not a permanent facet ofthe cityshistory  at least not at the scale thatit has existed at for the last generation.Homelessnessexploded in San Francisco inthe early 1980s, through a confluence of factors including the de-institutionalization of mental health services, the destruction ofpublichousing underurban renewal, the erosion of federal fundingfor low-income housing duringthe Reagan administrationand escalating rents as the city started grow its population again for the first time in 30 years.To top it off, there was the crack cocaineboom, the AIDS epidemic and thereturn of veterans from the Vietnam War.At first, the city treated it as a temporary problem with shelters under the Dianne Feinstein administration.But homelessness persisted. Former mayor Art Agnos allowed and then broke up an enormous homeless encampment in front of City Hallin 1990.Gavin Newsom tried Care Not Cash in the 2000s.The city shifted toward a more holistic and effective solutioncalledsupportivehousing, which pairshousing with counseling and job training. It turns out that the cheapest way to deal with homelessness is just to house people. It costsSan Francisco$61,000 a yearin jail, emergency medical and support services to care for a homeless person on the streets, versus$16,000 per year to house them.But ifthe city cant even figure out a housing strategy for the middle-class, its hard to see how it willsimultaneouslygenerate the political will tohouselower-income communitiesand the homeless.For the last decade,San Franciscohas spent roughly $165 million a year on homelessness. But the citys homeless population has barely budged at around 6,400 people. Thats because,even though city programs were successful atmoving 19,500 people off the streets, more people either showed up orlost their homes after the Great Recession. The city and an army of volunteers just conducted thebiennial homeless count a few nights ago.San Francisco is a progressive cityin an unforgivingly individualist nation.And now, with commercial office listings coming onto the market at anywhere from $60 to 120 a square foot,an ultra high-endfood market opening this month inside the Twitter building and more tech companies moving into the mid-Market area, the juxtapositions of wealth and poverty are only going to getmoreextreme.Most newcomers do not understandthe Tenderloins unique political history, or theprotections it won in the 1970s and 1980s that will keep it from followinggentrifications typical path.Now what?And so, we will have to co-exist.The city is in a different place than ayear ago.Mayor Ed Lee is basically running unopposed for re-election this year. Pro-housing activists are confronting neighborhood groups and NIMBY-ists who have stalledor watered down developments for years. Progressiveslost on a key set ofracesin last Novembers elections, including an anti-speculation tax. However, Ellis Act evictions are down and Ron Conways non-profit Sf.citi will back reform of the law in the state legislature this year. David Talbot,who co-founded Salon.com and wrote a fabulous history of SanFrancisco in the 1960s through 1980s called Season of the Witch, has gone from asking how much tech the city can take to urging workers not to be Stanford assholes.Gopman says hes changed too. Its definitely confusing to people, who arent really sure what to believe. I believehes remorseful and that he knows hell have to walk the walk, on top of writingblog posts. And while it is naive to think that a group of tech workers can solve a problem that has bedeviled the city for decades, the lack ofpolitical will, concern and empathyforthe poor is absolutelya contributor to the intractable nature of the problem.Gopman says:If nothing changes from here on out, then we are all to blame because we sat by and accepted the status quo instead of seizing the opportunity before us. Change does happen, but only with a strong kick in the ass to get things going.The wrath of the Internet is indeed a strong kick in the ass.If this is a TechCrunch benediction, sure, OK. Whatever. You canjudge him for what he does, and not what he says.If youre interested in the issue of homelessness, sign up andlet Gopman show what he can do.