GoTenna co-founder Daniela Perdomo knowsthat her startup has been quiet for a long time, but she said its for a good reason  the team has been busy turning its prototype into something that could bemanufactured at scale.The company aims to help users to communicate even when they dont have any cell signal, whether its because theyre in the wilderness or at a crowded festival. The companylaunched a preorder campaign midway through 2014, and now the productsofficially availablefor purchase.Early users have tested goTenna for things like hiking, snowports and silent outdoor activities like hunting and fishing. Perdomo gave me a somewhatlessadventurous demo when I visited goTennas Brooklyn offices  after downloading an app (something you probably want to do before heading into the wilderness) and pairing with iOS and Android devices, she could send text messages, even without a cell or WiFi connection.Those messages can be sent one-on-one, within groups or even broadcast to everyonenearby. (Dont worry, you can also block people.) Userscan send their GPS location as well, viewable on a pre-downloaded map  useful whether youre facing someemergency and need help, or if youre just trying to meet up with a friend.Given the prevalence of outdoors-y use cases, Perdomo acknowledged that some people might wonder, Isnt the point of being off-the-grid to be off-the-grid? In other words, if youre going skiing or rock climbing or whatever, do you really want you friends to be able to text you?Its not about Instagramming the world, Perdomo said. Its about saying, Come meet me at this sunset. This is where I am.'Backing up that argument:goTennawont let you share anything other than text and location, at least not yet.The devices are light, weighing only 1.8 ounces, and designed to be clipped to a backpack or other gear. Perdomo added that therange will vary depending on the terrain  in New York City, its usually limited to a few blocks or half a mile, while outdoor groups have reported communicating across distances of up to four or five miles.As for power,the device should be able to send 700 messages, and receive many more than that, on a single charge.Even better, theres no subscription fee. Perdomo said the company might eventually charge for additional services, but the core messaging capabilitieswill always be free. After all, she and her brother Jorgecame up with the idea partly as a way to communicate during a disaster like Hurricane Sandy, so itd be pretty bad if people were cut off during an emergency because they hadnt kept up with their payments.In a similar vein, goTenna is actually partnering with the New York City Economic Development Corporationto provide devices to small businesses so they can communicate duringa disaster.