GoTenna, the device for people who want to stay connected when they dont have cell signal, has found a natural launch partner  outdoor equipment retailer REI.Daniela Perdomo, goTennas CEO and co-founder, told me that REI has signed on to be the startups exclusive retail launch partner. For the next three months, the only place youll be able to buy goTenna, aside from the goTenna website, will in REI stores nationwide (where theyre getting prominent placement, as you can see in the New York store photo above) and the REI website.GoTenna has created a lightweight device (1.8 ounces) that uses Bluetooth technology to pair with your smartphone and then generates long-range radiowaves to connect with other goTenna devices. That means you can send text messages and share your location (via pre-downloaded maps) even when you dont have a cell connection.Its not just for use in the great outdoors, but thats probably the most obvious use case, so REI seems like a natural partner. In a press release, REI category merchandising manager Egan Whitley described goTenna as an innovative solution for groups and friends who still want to stay in touch via text during their outdoor adventures.The startup is also announcing that it has raised a $7.5 million Series A led by Walden Venture Capital, with participation from MentorTech Ventures, BBG Ventures, Bloomberg Beta, Wareness.io, Cellular One founder Kenneth Horowitz and Howard Finkelstein. (BBG, which stands for built by girls, is a subsidiary of Verizon, which also owns TechCrunch.)Perdomo said the funding will allow her to expand the 13-person goTenna team (well, 13 plus interns). For one thing, she said shes been almost a one-person marketing operation, so shell be expanding that part of the company. At the same time, goTenna will also continue to invest in product development, particularly improving the existing hardware through updates to the software and firmware.Its not about using it every day, she added, but rather making sure its useful when its your only choice, like when a group of friends goes into the woods and they need to stay connected. Perdomo also said customers are discovering new uses: People might buy it for skiing and then realize, Oh, I can use it for traveling abroad. Or they might buy it for hiking and then keep it for emergencies.GoTenna currently costs $199 for a pair of devices. Looking ahead, Perdomo said this isjust the first goTenna device, and will ultimately serve as the basis fora whole stack oftechnologies that we are developing  firmware,networkingprotocols, software, hardware addresses  that addresses the need for totally resilient, bottoms up communication infrastructure.Update: The post has been updated to correct the description of how goTenna works.