Grand Rounds, a service companies use to give employees access to healthcare advice and treatment around the U.S. irrespective of where they live, has raised $55 million in a new financing round.The company helps individuals find care for conditions they might not otherwise be able to access care forwith the physicians in their area. Individuals with more complex cases, for example, can be connected to either in-person experts or a remote expert to review the case through Grand Rounds.The processbegins with an individual telling Grand Rounds whats going on, and then giving the companya brief history of their condition. The individualthen signs a release that allows Grand Rounds to collect medical data, like imaging and test results, to match that person to the right in-person care provider or remote expert. All of this can be done in a matter of hours, or even minutes, CEO Owen Tripp said.In many cases, the best care providers arent located in areas like rural parts of the United States  and areinstead in citieswith research universities and some ofbest hospitals in the world. Getting access to the best physicianscan cost a small fortune, but with a service like Grand Rounds tapped into a massive network of expert providers, that cost drops off dramatically.The promise, in either case, is that youre going to see someone whos not just a good doctor, or someone who went to a fancy program, Tripp said. Youre going to see someone who has a demonstrable clinical practice record [for your condition].But the benefit to employers is that they can get ahead of casesthat might cost hundreds of thousands of dollars by connecting patients to experts familiar with their conditions. Those costs can then be dramatically reduced by finding the correct treatment plan in a short amount of time.TechCrunch previously reported that this financing round valued Grand Rounds at $750 million.The story of Grand Rounds begins with Tripp and his co-founders families dealing with tough medical situations. In Tripps case, his father-in-law was dealing with a rare  but curable  cancer, but did not have access to an expert with experience dealing with his case.Essentially, Tripp said, people seeking health care are either in anetwork  meaning they know someone who can connect them to an expert or the arent.You could be a low-income family living in rural Mississippi, and your mom is a nurse  and youre connected to the system and they can help you navigate, Tripp said. Most people dont have that level of insider care, we started the company to provideinsider care.Grand Rounds serves more than 50 companies that run the spectrum of businesses, and the majority of them are large Fortune 500 companies. Many of the companies that use Grand Rounds are self-insured, meaning the company takes on the financial risk for health care.The fundraising is geared toward three things, Tripp said: improving the patient experience for those connecting to doctors remotely; maintaining an ability to acquire data speedily; and further building relationships with industry leaders in the hospital space to build upon the partnerships the company already has.To be sure, there are many doctor-on-demand services. Doctor on Demand, for example, raised $50 million earlier this year, and it isnt the only telemedicine startup thats been active.But for Grand Rounds, the focus is on access and speed, Tripp said.Access is about being able to get to the door and to get the kind of knowledge and confidence in the provider that has been picked for you, he said. Speed is about, the ability to take anything you have in the healthcare system, to condense that as much as we possibly can, and to make it humane and make it feel like we have the power and design and customer experiences for things weve built. [Experiences] like ride-sharing, online banking  to bring that power to translate that into the healthcare experience.Grand rounds had raised $40 million prior to this financing round, and has raised $106 million to date.