Its a bad deal today for Groupon, the company that built a business around daily deals for goods and services and has since expanded into areas like commercesolutions for smallbusinesses. The companys stock opened at $2.81after droppingmore than30% in pre-market trading, on the heels of a triple-whammy of news:a CEO change; amixed Q3 report; and weak guidance for the upcoming holiday season. The last is perhaps the most worrisome of all, considering that Q4 is normally such a key period for online and offline retailers.The news initially led Nasdaqto halt trading in Grouponstock yesterday, when it was last priced at $4.03.Thefall in Groupons share value may lead some to wonder once again whether Groupon is a takeover target. It wouldnt be the first time.More immediately, new CEO Rich Williams, who is stepping up fromCOO while co-founder Eric Lefkovsky steps back into the chairmans role, is hunkering down to try to fix things at the company. According to the companys earnings call yesterday, his plansinclude more investment in customer acquisition; cutting moreinternational operations (including possibly layoffs or closing in certain markets); and shifting Shopping away from lower margin to higher-margin products.Not mentioned in Williams remarks is the fate of Breadcrumb, Groupons restaurant software business, which has seen some downsizing and was reportedly being considered for sale earlier this year.Groupon once enjoyed a skyrocket valuation, rebuffed acquisition offers from Google and had a bubbly IPO with shares popping 40% and valuing the company at nearly $18 billion.More recently, it has seen its core business of daily deals  where users are offered bargain prices on goods or experiences, usually for a limited windowof purchasing  hammered. The companys moves into newer business areas, with ambitions to be the platform for local commerce, has been fuelled by a series of acquisitions, although not all of these have proven to be seamless transitions and are not yet translating into significant customer and sales lifts for the company.The company currentlyhas a market cap of $2.64 billion.Punctuated by a large round of layoffs, thecompany had a lacklustre Q3, with flat revenues of $714 million compared to a year ago, at the lower end of its guidance and missing analysts estimates. Earnings per share were $0.05,which includd $0.03 of tax benefit and one-time items. Excluding these items, non-GAAP EPS still met guidance at $0.02, Groupon noted.The companys gross billings  the total dollar value of customer purchases of goods and services  was $1.47 billion, down from$1.49 billiona year ago. North Americaaccounts for more than half of that at $869 million. Similarly, while active customers were up 4% to 48.6 million as of September 30, the amount they are spending is going down, with the billings per average active customer now at $132 versus $137 a year ago.Groupons revenue guidance for Q4 is to bring in sales of between $815 million and $865 million, on EPS of between -$0.01 and $0.01. That isa far cry from analysts estimates ofbetween$900 million and $1 billion in revenues and EPS of $0.05 and $1.12.