Through the power of smart sensors and the magic of the cloud, children being parchedis on its way to becoming a thing of the past  at least, if the Gullu team has anything to say in the matter. The companys bottle, launching on Kickstarter today, is the newest, most high-tech weaponin the battle to getkids to imbibe enough liquids throughout the day.The Gullu pets that live in the water bottles. Cute, no?The idea is to turn the act of drinking water into an integrated game. The water bottle has a small screen built in, and additional sensors mean that shaking two bottles in close proximity to each other make the pets friends, enabling them to interact.The bottles have rechargeable batteries and a wireless charging dock to keep the battery topped up. The company claims theGullu will stay juiced for four days before another recharge is required.Shaking two bottles next to each other makes the pets friends, enabling them to interact with each other.The bottles usemultiple embedded sensors to measure not just how much water is disappearing from the bottle throughout the day, but also to attempt to determine whether the kid is actually rehydrating, or trying to be cheeky, pouring the water out in the flower bed outside the school. The idea is that only actually drinking is rewarded, and that the digital pets thrive best if the bottles owners use them as intended.Part of the theory behind Gullu is to integrate water drinking into everyday activities.Its an interesting product, and its easy to imagine a world where every child in your vicinity is running around shaking theirGullu bottles at each other and the product turns into a huge hit. For that to happen, however, two things need to click into alignment. Parentsneed to both feel that hydration is a big enough problem to solve and decide thata $129 water bottle is the right way of going about tackling the issue. My gut tells me thatGullu is an expensive solution to a non-existent problem. Time will tell, and itll be interesting to keep an eye on the Kickstarter campaign either way.