The hacking group Anonymous on Sunday declared total war against the Islamic State, the terror organization that claimed responsibility for the attacks on Friday that killed 132 Parisians.Make no mistake: #Anonymous is at war with #Daesh. We won't stop opposing #IslamicState. We're also better hackers. #OpISIS Anonymous (@GroupAnon) November 15, 2015Anonymous also posted a video, confirming the message was in response to theevents in Paris.According to the same Twitter account, the group began taking down websites associated with ISIS this morning.Anonymousalso retweeteda link to the following message from the hacktivist group Binary Sec:We as a collective will bring an end to your reign of terror. We will no longer turn a blind eye to your cruel and inhumane acts of terrorism towards all other religions that are not Islam. Weve watched you behead innocent people, kidnap and murder children, and then launch terrorist attacks in France. This will NOT BE TOLERATED ANY LONGER. We here at BinarySec live for the sole purpose of bringing down All ISIS Propaganda ONE website and/or person at a time. ISIS Your Jihad is coming to an abrupt end . We here at BinarySec will be one of the driving forces to your end and thats a promise. ISIS The War Is On.This is not the first time that Anonymous has taken on ISIS. Foreign Policy Magazine reports that the conflictbetween hackers that identify with Anonymous and ISIS has waged online for more than a year. A tippingpoint that forcedmany hackers to join the cause were the attacks on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper and kosher market in Paris earlier this year.According to the FP report from last week, hackers have taken 149 Islamic State-linked websites offline and flagged roughly 101,000 Twitter accounts and 5,900 propaganda videos.The remaining question is whether or not these hackers aiming to achieve social good are helping or harming state-driven attempts to take out the terror group. Technology companies have said in the past that government intelligence agencies ask them not to take down ISIS-related content because, when using the legal avenues at hand, they are able to more effectively track these groups.