Dont be misled: HaikuJam is not a poem app. Sure this U.K. startup began, back in 2013, as an app for writing haiku collaboratively. For digitally penning oneline apiece, between random strangers. Butformat has shiftedfunction, drivenby businessintention and startup acceleration. Thisappno longer haspoetry in its soul.HaikuJam v2, officially exiting beta and launching now on iOS and Android, introducescollaborative social photo-sharing to the proposition. So users can createwhat co-founder and CEO Dhrupad Karwa momentarilyrefers to asvisual haiku, before correctinghimself withessentially photo collages. And do so within concentriccircles of their pre-existing friends.Pictures are now allowed to entirely replace words if HaikuJam users choose resulting in a visuallayer cake, madefromthree separately selected images, taking the place of the erstwhile collectively composed haiku (although the app still supports writing too).The teams intentionis to addsupport for othertypes of rich media collaborations in future, such as video and audio.The earliest users of HaikuJam were actually Twitter micropoets, according toKarwa. But they have moved on (or moved back). He says the beta phase of the app has beenproviding an outletto (a very small group of)people who might not normallyfeel ableto pen linesor creatively combine visual imagery.People who might be stressed in their day jobs. Whoare seeking escape throughfrictionless novelty. These are the folkcollectively combiningmomentary musingsonHaikuJamto create a fleeting yet socialthing, whilstaccruing in-app Karma points (HaikuJams feel-good engagement currency). Laying down conjoined digital reflections, designed-by-intimate-micro-committee. Perhaps Shingy is a fan.It turns out that the people who are currently really active and enjoying the product are not poets. Theyre investment bankers, nurses, doctors, students. Speaking to them they like the app because they felt it gave them a sense of escapism. Stress relief. And accessed that creativity again because they dont work in creative professions. They dont write or paint or sing, Karwa tells TechCrunch.They really like the fact they didnt have to invest a lot of time, and just write a couple of lines, and feel creative again. And when someone else adds to your line thats the return of your investment of time There are a number of poets who still do use it but what we found was the power users are not poets. People who are just time poor and looking for a creative medium and expression tool, and almost a communication tool.HaikuJam has attracted a total of$150,000 in seed funding at this point, from the lead investors in JustGiving, Oxygen Enterprise Partners and via University College London, the founders alma mater.The team will be looking for another raise in the next fewmonths as they seek to push beyond what hasonly beenmicro-usage thus far.Here atthecaesura between beta andbona fide launch, active users of HaikuJam numberaround 500, and total app downloads stand at2,000. ButKarwa says the team has intentionally kept usage lowas they have beenconcentrating onsculpting a product theybelieve can scale.The short storyhereis poem apps dont scale. But its possible to dream photo-festooned collaborative creation tools might, especially given that  instartupland  its been shown time and again that a picture is worth a lot more than a handful of syllables, however pretty.Also true in conclusion: power users are not poets. Theyre too time-strapped for that.