A new hair extensions startup in San Franciscos East Bay called Mayvenn ischanging the old brick-and-mortar distribution model for buying longer locks  bygivingstylists their own online hair stores.Most hair extensions are imported to the U.S. from Asia and the Indian subcontinent and thensold to small corner beauty stores where the sales clerk may or may not know much about hair extensions. The hair is then purchased by the customer and brought to the stylist.The problem is the stylist not only has zero control over the quality, but no way of earning a commissionon the purchased hair.Mayvenns model sets each stylist up with marketing materials and a webstoreto sell what is promised to be reliable hair quality at a lower cost and the opportunity to make a commission on every piece of hair purchased.Prices range from the hundreds to thousands of dollars for extensions, butMayvenns co-founder Diishan Imira can keep the cost down and quality up due to some fundamental relationships he has with vendors in Asia. Imira is not only fluent in Mandarin, but has worked on International trade in this area of the world for over a decade.He sees the model working particularly well for hairdresserscatering to the largest consumers of hair extensions  African-Americanwomen.Mayvenn also offers 15 percent commissions and includes an individualwebsite where stylists can direct clients to purchase the hair.Mayvenn rapidly grewto 30,000 stylists in just a year and a half and is already pulling ineight figures in annual revenue. Those figures wereimpressive enough to grab the attention of a16zs Ben Horowitz.Its sort of like if youve ever run into anybody selling Amway or Avon or Herbalife or any of those things, most of them are like well I put in a bunch of money I should never have done that. I lost all my money. Butfor the Mayvenn people, they put in no money and just get money out, Horowitz told TechCrunch over the phone. Its just a much better system and Diishan is the guy who figured it out.Andreessen Horowitzled Mayvenns recent $10 million Series A funding round and Horowitz, who is one-half of the founding a16z partnership, plans to sit on the startupsboard as an observer.500 Startups, Trinity Ventures, Core Innovation Capital, Cross CultureVentures, Impact America, Apples JimmyIovine, tennis star Serena Williams, Translation CEO Steve Stoute and Anjula Acharia-Bathalso tossed money into this round. Mayvennraised $3 million in a seed round prior to this raise, bringing the total in financing to $13 million for the startup.According to one source, the raise puts Mayvenns valuation at close to $62 million. However, Pitchbook analysts told us that valuation is closer to $39 million post raise and that Mayvenn originally sought $20 million but ended up taking $10 million. Had it raised the $20 million, the startup would be closer to that $62 million valuation.Its probably a sound investment. The model empowers stylists to make money on products they work with and hair extensions continue to be a popular choice for African American women comedian Chris Rocks 2009 documentary Good Hair is a testament to this $684millionblack hairstyleindustry.Imira believes his startup has potential outside of the African American demographic as well. And Horowitz agrees. The a16z partnersees the potential in the Jewish community just as much as within the African American community.People in the firm thought this was a product for black people, but I was like no, no, no, youve got it all wrong. Its not a black company. Its a Jewish company. The name Mayvenn is the key, which, of course, is the Yiddish word for trusted expert, Horowitz told me.Both Imira and Horowitz have a point. There are plenty of women from all ethnicities in both Hollywood andsuburbia now willing to pay into the thousands at their local salon tothicken and lengthen their tresses.I spoke to a couple of hairdressers who work with hair extensions in both the Bay Area and Utah who could affirm there were plenty of women from every ethnicity willing to fake longer locks.Hair extensions is newer outside of the black community but its growing incredibly fast, Imira said. Its becoming ubiquitous.But Imiras primary focus is on the stylists. This is a business for beauticians so that they can run retail without having to buy or hold any inventory. Its an inventory as a service business for beauticians, he said.Imira plans to use the new cash to scale the business so that hecan quicklyjumpfrom eight figures to 10 figures in revenue per year.