Venture-backed Upwork (formerly Elance-oDesk) and the labor organization Freelancers Union just commissioned a study by the globalresearch firm Edelman Berland, and its chock-full of fascinating information about the state of freelancing in the U.S.You can check out the whole thing  which involved more than 7,000 people and was weighted to ensure demographic representation in line with U.S. labor statistics  right here. But lets quickly drill into some of the findings that the organizations themselves seem to find most interesting.One in three Americans  or 34 percent of U.S. workers  is freelancing. That equates to 53.7 million people whove done freelance work in the last year, which is prettyshocking.A small caveat here, though. Freelance in this survey means one of five things. There are just 19.3 million traditional freelancers, who have no employer and do work on project-by-project basis. Meanwhile, there are13.2 million moonlighters who have jobs but work on freelance projects in their off hours; 14.1 million diversified workers with part-time jobs who also take on freelance work; 4.6 million temporary workers, including those employed through staffing agencies; and 2.5 million freelance owners, meaning people who are freelancing but also employing other freelancers.Roughly 60 percent of freelancers who left traditional employment now earn more.This stat had us pleasantly surprised, though even more surprising to us  unbelievable, even  was a related stat. According to the survey, 78 percent of people who quit a job with an employer in order to freelance said they were earning more freelancing within oneyear or less.Why its hard to believe: it takes time to drum up new business as a freelancer. Its also an expensive adjustment to make,when factoring in the health care payments, Social Security, and the other taxes that freelancers have to set aside. Indeed, when we asked Sara Horowitz, founder and executive director ofFreelancers Union, about this, she said the question respondents were askeddidnt take into account the difference in costs. The net net, she added, may not be positive.Freelancers are optimistic, with more than one-third reporting that demand for their services increased in the past year and nearly half saying they expect their income from freelancing to rise in the coming year.Thank you, Internets. In fact, 73 percent of respondents said that technology was making it easier to find freelance work, up from 69 percent last year.In fact, because freelancersso prize their time flexibility (76 percent of respondents) and freedom to work from anywhere (75 percent), fully 50 percent said theres no amount of money that would compel them to take a traditional job. Take that, Corporate America!About16.6 million freelancers said they now earn 10 percent of more of their income through the sharing economy. Thats up from 9 million people who said the same last year. (Yes, were looking at you, Airbnb.)Of course, the survey also included some less-than-sunnynumbers.Fully 76 percent of respondents said they were concerned about health care costs. The same percentage said they were also concerned about the unpredictable nature of their income. Meanwhile, 74 percent of those surveyed said they wereconcerned about retirement savings.Youd probably get a similarly high percentage of employed people answering affirmatively to concerns about health care costs and retirement savings, even though they have much more in the way of a safety net than independent contractors, who have bupkis.Still,with more people moving in the direction of independent work, these concernsshould be top of mind for lawmakers, particularly as we head into elections next year. Entrepreneurs who are trying to read the tea leaves should take note of the overarching trends, too.