Poor HTC. The Taiwanese firm just cant seem to catch a break right now. Preliminary Q2 results in Julypredicted its business would return to the red, and, now those loses are confirmed with the quarters official figures, the company is preparing tostreamline its business significantly and put out phones that people will actually want to buy.The company recorded a NT$8 billion (US$252million) operating loss for Q2 2015 on revenue ofNT$33.0 billion (US$1,042 billion). In a frank call with analysts, HTC CFO and president of global sales Chialin Chang admitted that sales were weak because consumers prefer more fashionable phones to those which HTC offers. Thats not a huge surprise, as we, and others have said, its current flagship  the One M9  is impressive but not particularly different to its predecessor, which didnt sell well.The company, which suffered last quarter withdisappointingsales in China  where the smartphone market is shrinkingand Huawei and Xiaomis affordable devices hoovering up marketshare is planning to release new devices before the end of the year as it homes in on profitability rather than market share, Chang said.HTCs CFO confirmed that a classic version of the companys flagship One M9 thats more trendyis in the pipeline, alongside anothermodel(s) with differentiated features. Dont expect top-of-the-line releases, however. Chang said the new launches will address premium segments but will be a few tiers down from flagship. (That sounds to us like the Xiaomi-Huawei $300-500 range, but HTC isnt giving more details for now.)Of greater concern,Chang rather ominously told the earnings call that HTC will optimize our operating experience and improve efficiency to save costs. The measures will reduceoperating expenses quite significantly, he added.That sounds like it could mean lay-offs, but that wasnt explicitly communicated over the call so well have to wait to hear more.The third element to HTCs planned turnaround, beyond cost cutting and new launches, is its non-smartphone business. The company, which invested $10 million in VR software outfit WEVR last week, is placing emphasis on virtual reality ahead of the planned launch of its Vive headset before the end of the year. To that end, the company touted its first mover advantage and that more than a thousand developers are working on content for its VR platform.Thats coupled with wearables, an area where the company hasnt got the best track record. HTC haspostponed the launch of its Grip fitness trackerandit apparently abandoned a smartwatch plan last year. Chang said the company would release connected devices, and it will use a partner-based approach (the Grip is developed in collaboration with UnderArmor, and coming soon) to build that side of its business with greater efficiency.Chang predicted that the results of HTCs new strategy wont be seen in its financial performance until early next year. For that reason, the firm didnt provide estimates for profit/loss in the next quarter.HTC is the latest in a line of Android phone makers to have reported less-than-impressive Q2 2015 financials. LG saw sales drop (although it did well in the U.S.), Samsungs growth slump continued, andSonys mobile business turned in a poor scorecard, too.Unlike this trio, however, HTC doesnt have other business units that can suck that poor mobile performance up and steer it to profit.