Assomeone who travels a lot, Ive always struggled with finding the perfect bag. Anything with wheels is clunky, duffel bags always mix up my clothes and gadgets, andbackpacks make me look like Im still in middle school.Enter Voyager, a bag made by This is Ground, a handmade leather goods company based in downtown Los Angeles. Their bag is stylish like a briefcase, roomy like a duffel, and organizesgadgets like my nerdy old backpack. Better yet, it comes with a Karma Go WiFi device, essentially making it a traveling hotspot.After just returning from a weekend trip where I had a chanceto takeVoyager for a spin, I can safely say that its as functional as promised.The bag, which is a foot tall and 16.5 inches long, has two separatezippered sections. Themain compartment can fit a pretty good deal of stuff  about a weekends worth of clothes and one or two pairs of shoes. The side pocket, which houses the Wi-Fi device, has partitionsfor a phone, battery pack, a plethora of charging cords, and basically any other small gadget you can throw in there.Voyager comes in a variety ofcolors, includingBomber, Navy, Cognac, French Grey, and Charcoal. While I only got to play with one, it was made of extremely high-quality leather, the type that you can smell before you even pick upthe bag. It also has handles and a shoulder strap, which allows it to becasually thrown over the shoulder or held like a briefcase.As mentioned, the WiFi is powered via a device from Karma, a pay as you go network with coverage in over 400 U.S cities.While I first thought the Wi-Fi dongle was a bit gimmicky,a two-hour delay on the tarmac with a charged laptop but dead cell phone quickly changed my mind. That being said, a phone with a tethering plan will probably suffice in most cases, and the bagcan be bought without the Karma integration.Voyager willgo on sale on November 2nd and retail for $725 without the WiFi device, and $925 with. While slightly pricy, Voyager is sure to get a ton of compliments, and might just become your newfavorite bag.