There has beenconsolidation,collapseand other troubles among some on-demand home servicesstartups, but others seem to becleaning up in their wake.Handy a platform foron-demand housekeepingand other services like furniture delivery and assembly via anapp that connects tradespeople with customers  is announcing today that it hasraised $50 million in new funding to continue growing its business.Handy is not commenting on the valuation, butit is reportedlyin the $500 million range.The Series C round was led by new investor Fidelity Management, with participation also from existing investorsTPG Growth, General Catalyst, Highland Capital andRevolution Growth. It brings the total invested in Handy (formerly known as Handybook) to just under $111 million.The New York-based company says thatbetween its launch in 2012 andJune 2015, it completed 1 million bookings on its platform. Oisin Hanrahan  Handys CEO whoco-founded the company with Umang Dua (its COO) andWeina ScottandIgnacio Leonhardt(both no longer with the company) saysthat Handy books 100,000 jobs per month, withhundreds of thousands of customersandsome 10,000 professionals registered.Theplan, Hanrahansays, will be toinvestmore in the 28 markets where it is already active  they include majorcities across the U.S., plus some international markets like London  before expanding to new cities and countriesat the endof 2016.We want todeliver a better customer experience, and abetter experience for the pros on our platform, he told TechCrunch. It will also be about expanding beyond cleaning services, which today represent about 80% of the jobs on Handy. We want to deliver every service to every home.The news of the new round of funding is both expected andalso a little bit of a surprise.On one hand, we knew Handy was raising. Areport from July in Bloomberg,noting that Handy was looking forup to $50 million at a valuation of $500 million, said as much. (That report, incidentally, had mentioned the possibility of a strategic investor, although there are none named in the current round.)More generally, the market for on-demand services  from transportation to food delivery and more  is a big area right now for smartphone-equipped consumers, and investors are piling in to get a piece of the action.At the same time, as companies like Uber and Airbnb demonstrate, succeeding is partly a matter of scale, something that Handy is also taking to heart.Thisis a classic two-sided marketplace with a lot of operations, Hanrahan says, referring to Handy interfacing both with consumers ordering a service, and contractors who execute the jobs. The way to do that is to be the biggest player in a category.But on the other hand the on-demand home cleaning space is more than a little messy right now.Several competitors to Handyhave had problems growing. Handys rivalHomejoy,which Handywas trying to buy at one point, closed in July(with several employees then going to Google). In Europe, another startup called Hassle also failed to scale and was acquired by Rocket Internet-backed Helpling.There is also the matter of lawsuits against the businesses over how workers on the platform are classified. Homejoy had four of these suits in progress and even cited them that asone reason the company had trouble raising money. Handy itself is also trying to work through two similar suitsover 1099 status. The latest on that front is that the company says it is trying to steer the cases into arbitration.On top of this, given that the area of business is relatively new, the startups involved are seeing growing pains. Theseincludehow customers are acquired: over-emphasis on cheap introductory house cleaning deals on Groupon, for example, can makeit a challenge to retain customers for subsequent jobs, as this unofficial Homejoypost-mortem explained. And they also include more basic problemswith how the business is managed on the customer service front.Hanrahan admitsthat Handy itself is not immune to this, either. Wed heard that the company had issues with how customers were unable to cancel cleans before they were charged, because they had to phone or email to do so, which effectively made it more difficult than booking in the first place.Now Hanrahan says the company is transitioning to an online platform that will make ordering  and cancelling  services easier. It was a feature gap that we areclosing, he says. We want to make sure that everyone on Handy is having a good experience.It will have a challenge in convincing some people. For example.Hanrahanalso notes that Handy gets less than 3 percent of its bookings today from Groupon and LivingSocial, both of which have been hard to convert to regular users.On the subject of the companys business model, he notes that the typical job ordered on the Handy platform costs about $70 to the customer, and of that Handy makes 20 percent on average (it varies between different categories of jobs). Around 80 percent of Handys bookings each week come from repeatcustomers.When it comes to contractors on the platform  or pros, as Hanrahan refers to them  he says that the majority are active on the platform after 12 months, and are still doing work after a 30-day period, but that the vast majority are working less than 20 hours per week, and that many dip in and out of working on Handy.This is incremental and supplemental, he says. This is all worded carefully by him, possibly because how people are working on the Handy platformis at the center of those 1099 lawsuits.Longer term, and because  as Hanrahan himself says  scale is the name of the game,perhaps more challenging than all this might be the spectre of much larger players like Amazon and what position they may occupy as competitors. Handy is not the only one facing that challenge: others like Thumbtack could also be impacted by Amazon and Google iftheirearly ambitions in home services take hold.This is perhaps the bestreason why Handy wants first to improve how it serves a smaller group of markets before expanding to take on more. When we started Handy we didnot internalize the degree to which this is a technologybusiness, Hanrahan says. At a local level, as we grow, we realise that. Its challenging, but to bethe leader you have to givethe best experience more than anything else.Additional reporting Katie Roof, Jordan Crook