Back in 2012, Leap Motion seemingly came out of nowhere with a crazy hand-sensing gesture controller that looked like something straight out of Minority Report.Alas, the product landed with a bit of a thud. Buggy and inaccurate, the first build just wasnt as good as most had hoped. Within two years, theyd sold just 500,000 units.The product has made a bunch of small steps since  but today its making one big leap. Aiming to make the Leap Motion good enough for seamless use in virtual reality, the company is shipping new hardware and software that drastically improves the experience.Dubbed the Orion release, todays news is a two-part thing:We stopped by Leap HQ to give the new software a spin  and, well, its pretty damned impressive. Like many, my initial experience with the Leap when it first shipped was a bit lackluster; this new build, while not perfect, is much closer to the experience I expected.Leap demonstrated the new software in a demo world theyve aptly dubbed Blocks  an infinite chamber filled with blocks that the user can pick up and toss. With a quick pinch gesture, new blocks are spawned on demand. By turning your left hand toward the sky, a dial interface appears that lets you select a new shape to spawn; turn your right hand upward and lift it toward the ceiling, and the blocks begin to float as gravity is cranked toward zero. Its perhaps best shown, rather than told  so check out the video up top.As Ive been saying for years, Im still quite convinced that hardware controllers will play a pivotal role in virtual reality  particularly in the early days. But this is the first time that Ive seen hand sensing stuff reach the point where I can imagine using it regularly in VR  using it to poke around interfaces, grab objects, open doors, etc. Dont throw out the PlayStation Move or HTC Vive controllers just yet, but start considering how to bring the players own hands into the mix.If youve got a Leap Motion developer unit handy, dust it off and give this new build a spin.