HappyFunCorp has been living up to its name, according to co-founder Ben Schippers  at least if you associate happiness and fun with profits, growth and acquisitions.Last year, I visited the design and engineering firms Brooklyn offices for the final episode of our Built in Brooklyn video series. Since then, Schippers said the company has continued to add new team members, with a headcount thats now around 80, including TechCrunch columnist Jon Evans. (Update: Schippers said its now around 90.) Its also been taking on more work in gaming, whichits planning to accelerate with the recent acquisition of mobile game development studio Heartonomy.HappyFunCorps many clients include Facebook, LinkedIn and AOL (which owns TechCrunch).Schippers said hes become focused on verticalized sales. In other words, he wants to build out teams withexpertise in specific industries  not just games, but also social networking, e-commerce, financial technology and energy. (Previous acquisitions include EastMedia, which helped HappyFunCorp strengthen its enterprise development team.) To that end, hes planning to acquire at least two more companies in the next 12 to 15 months.HappyFunCorp is also expanding its team through the new HFC Cadet program, where it brings on less experienced engineers (say, the graduate of programming bootcamp) to work on shorter, cheaper projects.This growth, by the way, is being funded by revenue  over the past four years, revenue has grown 290 percent, reaching $4.8 million last year. Schippers said his team is still pretty committed to buying companies purely through revenues, in part because hes not interested in the many strings that come with venture capital dollars.The bigambition, Schippers added, is to build the best place in New York City for whatever type of software that you need to build.To that end, HappyFunCorps main asset is engineers, and Schippers said the companysmodel helps those engineers avoid burnout. Thats because it allowsthem to focus on the interesting parts of the process, rather than spending all their time on bugs or on server maintenance: Once youre in production, we know that a lot of engineers lose interest. We can take those engineers cycle them back into the beginning of a project  and get the engineers to where theyre doing what they want to be doing 75 to 80 percent of the time, which is pretty good.Oh, and if you missed it first time, heres that episode of Built in Brooklyn.