
Rob Gonzalez is the Co-Founder and VP of Business Development at Salsify. Hello code bootcamp graduates, and welcome to an exciting and fulfilling career! As you know by now, programming is a highly creative art in which you get to build things that change the world every single day. The field is constantly evolving and changing  with more things to learn and discover every year than you could learn in a lifetime.Having interviewed dozens of bootcamp graduates (including many who are a year removed and dissatisfied with their current positions), I think some have unrealistic expectations (in part set by the bootcamps themselves) about what jobs they are qualified to do after graduating, and where they might want to work. So what should you look for in a job? I dont have all the answers, but here are some things I think are important to look for if you can find them.You just invested time and money to change careers. Youre at the beginning of your growth, not the end (compare yourself to an MIT grad who has taken more than20 courses over four years). As such, make sure you join an organization that is serious about investing in you. Make sure that there will be people dedicated to coaching and working with you.Practically speaking, this means that a company has to be a certain size to be able to make this investment; likely at least 50 people, and probably much more than that. Generally speaking, my advice to people right out of school is to find a hot, growing startup of roughly 200-700 people and get in the door doing whatever theyll let you do  which is likely a lot, because companies like that have too much to do and not enough people to do it all!A small boutique consultancy with fewer than 50 employeesalso can provide strong mentorship, but make sure to bring up the subject of growth and mentorship with any such company.This is the flip side of the Mentorship And Support criterion above. I know, I know, startups are sexy and you want to be in early (frankly, Ive beensurprised by how many people are impatient to be in the first few people at a startup straight out of a bootcamp).Ive seen 5-10-person startups hire code bootcamp grads, and I cant imagine how they have the mentorship and management bandwidth tostart a company whileinvesting in you. Contrary to popular opinion, tons of successful startups are founded by people older than 22. There is time for that later. For now, focus on honing your craft.This is strong advice not just for you, but for anyone looking for a job. Working with people who are clear, transparent and straightforward communicators will make your life significantly easier. I include this here only because clear communication is doubly important when you yourself know (relatively) little about your craftand are going to be learning a tremendous amount in very short order.Dont be afraid to ask lots of questions to make sure you understand the product youll be working on, the business youll be a part of and the expectations theyll have for you. I regard more highly candidates who are curious and ask good questions about a companythan those who sit back and wait to be quizzed.It sucks to struggle through a challenge on your own; it is much better with comrades. This is a big reason why companies with more than one founder are more likely to succeed. In your case, youre going to be much better off joining a company that has other bootcamp graduates with whom to share the journey. Moreover, its a signal that the company has appropriate expectations aboutyourcontributions.Many bootcampers get jobs as pre-sales engineers at SaaS companies and basically stop coding day-to-day (pre-sales for SaaS businesses often means that youre the technical Q&A person brought on sales calls). This is a great career that is lucrative, but if your goal is to code, these roles are notfor you. Make sure that in whatever job you take youll be coding every day. Per Gladwell: get in your 10,000 hours.Youve been taught how to build a basic web app, which is great. And there are businesses that will hire you to do just that, over and over,building basic Rails app after Rails app until youre seeing rails g yet_another_rails_project in your sleep.Rails is awesome, but youre much better off participating in a larger, more complicated project over a period of months or years than you are churning out a basic app every month and moving on to a new project.Having just come out of a bootcamp andreceived whatever advice from your teachers, Im sure you feel that Rails versus Node or something is super awesome and why would you use anything else.The specific technology youre going to be working with doesnt really matter that much, as long as the problem is complicated enough and interesting. Remember, whatever tech you start in will likely not be what youll be using 10 years from now.Ive talked to bootcampers who are super happy at places as different as Athena Health and Salsify. Changing specific markets youre working in is very easy in tech, so if you start in e-commerce and want to change to finance after a few years, then want to save the world with global edtech, its very easy to do. What you want first and foremost is a strong mentorship program to be able to grow, regardless of the problem space.Rovaira on Bootcamps and Success at Salsify from Salsify on Vimeo.