Last week, Y Combinator ran investors through 105 presentations by early-stage startups in a two-day show it calls Demo Day. The pace of deal-making for such events, staged every summer and winter, has grown so feverish that the incubator introduced a new wrinkle: backers could commit to plowing millions into a company by simply clicking the equivalent of an easy button via an online dashboard that Y Combinator created.Many local VCs seemed too busy to notice. Brian OMalley of Accel Partners was walking around on his phone. Jon Sakoda of New Enterprise Associates madethe rounds. Hunter Walk of Homebrew looked to be taking a couple of meetings, too.Yet there were other, more surprising guests. There, in the front row, was Stevie Cohen, the famed hedge fund manager. Elsewhere in the audience, a money manager for Major League Baseball sat rapt, listening to the procession of startup presentations.Perhaps the most interesting category of attendee, though, were more traditional limited partners, who typically invest in venture and private equity funds.Indeed, while it used to be that VCs treated their LPs a bit like mushrooms, keeping them mostly in the dark, todays LPs want to be closer to the action, and for them, Y Combinator is Ground Zero.For some, its a chance to make direct investments in companies, including those that might seem, to the casual observer, to be little more than jumped-up PowerPoint presentations. One Midwest LP who represents a family office and began receiving invitations to these affairs last year  one year after he began investing in privately held tech companies  has already backed a dozen startups out of YC. They represent one-third of his current portfolio of direct stakes.I find [YCs] batches are always the best of any accelerator class or demo day that I attend, says the LP, who asked not to be named. Ive found a number of opportunities that were as exciting as any weve pursued. YCs endorsement, he says, is a very important signal to us.Others have started coming largely for a preview of whats coming in tech. Among them is J.D. Montgomery, a managing director at the Newport Beach, Ca., firm CanterburyConsulting, which works with 60 families and 105 institutions that collectively oversee $14 billion in assets.While Montgomery has worked with clients for27 years, its only in the past three years that he has begun coming to Y Combinator Demo Days with a family from Mexico that has begun actively making direct investments in tech companies. Montgomery says the family, which has invested in a dozen venture funds and owns direct stakes in 15 startups altogether, made one investment in a company from YCs winter batch and iscurrently pursuing a deal with a second YC company that presented to attendees last week.You get exposure to whats coming, Montgomerysays. Its a little like seeing the future.Of course, Y Combinator may have motives of its own for sending out more invitations to LPs.As industry watchers know, the outfit is still in the midst of raising a very big, growth-stage vehicle, one that it will use totake a pro rata stake in every companythat passes through its program and which outside investorsassign apost-money valuation of $250 million or less.It certainlydoesnt hurt to make friends with a wider pool of potential investors than it might have had a few year ago.Y Combinator has also said in recent months that it wouldlike to fund1,000 companies a yearin the not-too-distant future. To fulfill that ambition,too, it willneed more than Silicon Valley venture capitalists in the mix.Luckily for YC  whose winter class of roughly 100 startups has already raised a stunning $227 million from investors  those enthusiastic VCshave already laid the groundwork.Says Montgomery knowingly of last weeks Demo Day experience: It is a show, and its produced, and its very formulaic in how you put together your pitch. Everyone has a billion dollar industry theyre going after.Showmanship aside, he says, These teams are really impressive groups of people and theyre developing some really great technologies. Ive no doubt well be hearing about some of them over the course of the next 5 to 10 to 15 years.