Microsoft has a big Windows 10 boostout today. The company is calling it the first major update to Windows 10 for both normal PCs and tablets.At its most basic, Microsoft wants to better position Windows 10  its new operating system  for both consumers and enterprise clients. If it fails to find adoption witheither, the success of therecently releasedcode will be likely nil. Such are the stakes.Up front, in a blog post, the company indicated that Windows 10 also starts rolling out to Xbox One today, and select mobile phones soon. That is both encouraging, and not. It is good that the larger long-discussed Windows Everywhere strategy is still in place  thats the Xbox piece  but also slightly disappointing that the Windows 10 for mobile phones elementremains in the future. I suppose that the firm is another holiday season down.Before we delve into what Microsoft has planned for the enterprise, lets have a game. No, not League of Legends  I have no desire to lose again this week  but instead the Xbox. Heres the official verbiage [Emphasis: TechCrunch]:With the New Xbox One Experience, Xbox One will update to be powered by Windows 10,providing faster experiences. Windows 10 makes all your gaming better with a consistentgaming experience across devices by extending Xbox Live to every screen. You can now get intomultiplayer sessions and Parties faster, your most-used content is more readily available, andyou can find gaming experiences tailored to your favorite titles more easily.Weve all had a long year, so I wont complain about the update to be powered by line. Life is too short.Windows 10 For People With MoneyAs you might have heard, large corporate clients are an important constituency of Microsofts bottom line. Given that obvious reality, Microsoft is more than a little focused on getting those customers onto its new platform. Again, a house divided cannot stand, and the software shop needs both folks, and folks bosses on board to succeed.So, new features. In short the new bits are designed to help companies IT crews better manage PCs on their networks. I am sure this will disappoint more adventurous employees, but given who Microsoft in fact sells to, the resulting content is as surprising as mud in a corn maze.Heres the core language [Emphasis: TechCrunch]:Windows Update for Business, provides IT controls over the deployment of updates within theirorganizations, while ensuring their devices are kept current and their security needs are met, atreduced management cost. Features include setting up device groups with staggereddeployments and scaling deployments with network optimizations.Windows Store for Business provides IT a flexible way to acquire, deploy, manage and use apps both public and private line of business. Organizations can create their own private catalog  astore within the public Business Store  where they can define the list of the public and line-of-business apps available.The company also announced new mobile device management features  hello, Good!  for Windows 10. Mobile, it seems, remains a thing.Microsoft also announced that there are 12 million business PCs running Windows 10. That is up from 8 million at last count. The company did not update its 110 million total device figure. Provided that you have both fingers and toes, you can add a few things together to get new numbers.Microsoft did notprovide new official aggregate figures in a phone call with TechCrunch.All of this may not impact your use of Windows 10. That isnt too surprising. But I would draw your attention to two things. First, that Microsoft was not kidding about continuous updates to Windows 10, and its current focus on the building out features for corporate customers.Neither should shock, but each matters. The first because updates such as this demonstrate that the company didnt oversell its ability to update Windows 10. And the latter because it indicates that Microsoft thinks its new operating system is ready for everyone, even the most exacting corporate domains.New numbers will tell a better story, but for today, at least, there is new grist for Windows fans.