In a curious stray from the norm, Tesla had one strange rule at tonights Model 3 unveiling: no big cameras allowed. Camera phones were okay, but if it had a big zoom lens, it wasnt supposed to come in.Why? Were not 100% sure. I asked around, and the closest thing to an answer I heard was that the car isnt quite finished yet so the finer details are subject to change. Dark, crowded rooms and tinycell phone camera sensors make for a pretty challenging photo shooting environmentAs such, good photos of the Model 3  outside of the ones that Tesla has released themselves (which seem to be renders, for the most part)  might be hard to come by. So, well, here: 14 actual photos of the actual car, as taken by myself and a few colleagues at the event.This would normally be one of our slideshow/gallery things but, well, the gallery loads pictures small and that kind of defeats the point. Enjoy!(Just want to know more about the car? Heres our post about the actual announcementitself)Red!While the silver car up top was center stage throughout the presentation, they had one single red car off to the right.The car clearly borrows much of its design language from the Model S, but its hardly just a miniaturized clone. The front end, in particular, is wildly different. From this angle, the front actuallyreminds me ever so slightly  of the Scion FRS/Subaru BRZ (which, really, is a good thing  the front of that car is friggin gorgeous)The wheels!Youll see some different ones later on in this photo set, so this might be one of those details Tesla hasnt quite settled on yet  or, just as likely, there will be multiple options.The front endWill they keep that mostly-grill-free nose? I sure as hell hope so; it looks stunning in person. Almost a little surreal; like someone was modeling the car in clay and forgot to carve the grill, took a step back, and said Oh, hey, that actually looks pretty good like that.Note the door handlesLike many a Tesla before it, the door handles on the Model 3 tuck away into the body of the car when the vehicle is in motion. The handles on this prototype are notably curvier than the handles of the Model S or X, though.Current ReservationsJust after the unveiling ended, the onstage screen flipped into a live counter showing the number of pre-orders that had been placed. By the time Elon took the stage, it was at around 110,000  and thats before anyone had seen the car.Within about 40 minutes, it was at 150,000 (at which point they shut down the counter.)For reference, thats around 3x as many cars as Tesla delivered in all of 2015 (50,580).One last shot of RedFor good measure.Silver!The aforementioned silver model, from the side.And nowever so slightly turned, with more lens flare!!Getting ready for a test rideAlas, I didnt get to drive the Model 3. In fact, no one outside of Tesla employees did  unlike at the debut of the Model X, this one was just a ride-along. There were buta handful of road-ready prototypes at the event, and a few hundred people waiting for a ride, each with a pre-designated number assigned to them. Needless to say, there was a bit of a queue.Wheels!It has them.The RoofIt was tough to get a proper shot of the roof, but its a beauty. Its essentially one big pane of glass, visibly split only by two supports: one where the front seat visors are, and one right above the driver/passenger headrests. Otherwise, its more sunroof than roof-roof.Its like someone took the already damned gorgeous panoramic roof of the Model X and dragged it all the way to the back. I imagine its pretty insane during the day, or during particularly starry nights.From the frontSee that thing between the driver and the passenger? Thats a big ol touchscreen, similar to the one found in the Model S but its now a 15 landscape (wide) screen, rather than a 17 portrait screen. It juts out a bit more from the dash than the one found in the S; it was unclear if thats likely to change in the final design.That screen, from the other sideI imagine the look of this interface will change a bit by the time the car actually ships; its a bit spartan for now, but it gets the job done at this early stage.