A startup called VINA is launching a mobile app today that operates a lot like a Tinder, but is aimed at women seeking new friends. And no, not friends-with-benefits or boy-space-friends, but other females who share their same interests, and who have compatible personalities. To make this work, Hey! VINA, as the app is called, doesnt just show its users pictures and profiles, but also uses amatching algorithm that takes into account information like mutual friends, proximity, and data from quizzes you take in the app.Yes, an app for making friends. Oh, what a world.The idea for the appcomes from VINA, a company whose focus is on building a suite of products aimed at meeting the needs of modern women. In addition to the mobile app, VINA also offers LadyBrag.com, a simplesitewhere women share and celebrate their accomplishments.The company itself was founded last summer by friendsOlivia June Poole and Jen Aprahamian, who previously worked together at General Assembly. The founders said they started building the app Hey! VINAbecause of a personal pain point  they often moved and traveled for work and wanted a better way to meetnew girlfriends in the area.In addition, the two said their industry of choice  tech  tends to be dominated by men, which made it more difficult for them to find women they could add to their social circles. Plus, as their current girlfriends moved away, got married orstarted having children, they also found their social circles shrinking.But is finding friends really something that we need an app for?Poole ticked off a number of use cases where she thinks something like Hey! VINA could help, whether that was wanting to find girlfriends while traveling for extended periods of time, or connecting with new peoplewho were interested in specific activities based around common interests, for example. Or even just being able to get your social circle started after moving to a new city.She also tells me that Hey! VINA grew out of a networking group shebegan in San Francisco called Ladies Who Vino (in case youre wondering about the apps odd name. VINA is also Scottish forfriend or beloved.)Theseladies-only happy hours grew to 100 attendees, which prompted Poole to consider translating that success into an app that could scale the movementfurther.The app, which is live now in San Francisco and New York, starts off with a short quiz designed to getthe basic details of a users lifestyle and personality. Then, on a weekly basis, Hey! VINA will release Buzzfeed-style quizzes to augment that initial data with more information that can be used for matching.Theres something immediately off-putting, however, about a startup that takes one of our most basic social skills the ability to make friends  and turns it into an app. Its reflective of a generation whois alreadylambasted for spending too much time on our phones, and who is sometimes said to have difficulty with interpersonal interactions because of this.That being said, with womens modern lives which involve far more travel and relocation than in past years, the ability to find new, close friends has gotten more difficult. Books have been written about the matter, in fact. But do people want asolution in the form of an app? After all, once you make your first friend in a new area, your social circle seems to quickly grow.Still, Poole believes that you can either fight the trend involving the shift ofsocializing to our phones, or you can embrace it.Its the way things are, she says. We cant force people to change. We cant force an entire culture to be like, okay, everybody put down your phone, Poole continues. If we can help people adapt and fulfilltheir needswe think thats great.The app, now in public beta, is live on iTunes.