Its been two-and-a-half years since Spotify first broughtits music-streaming service toAsia, and the company is moving close to entering two importantmarkets in the region: Japan, where music streaming is beginning to show promise, and Indonesia, the worlds fourth largestcountry with a population of over 250 million.Spotify has 75 million users (20 million paying) across more than 60countries worldwide, but it only supports six markets in Asia. It launched in Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia in April 2013, but has moved very slowly in Asia, adding justthe Philippines and Taiwan since then. Its fair to say that a larger rollout in Asia is long overdue, particularly since Apple Musicis widely available across the continent.Japan has been a target of Spotifys for some time. The company was hiring for a media relations role last year, as Quartz noted, in what wasa big hint at its plans.Spotify confirmed to TechCrunch that it now has a team of four on the ground in Tokyo, while it is currently seekingto bolster its rankings witha financial controller, pera job vacancy.A source inside Spotify, who declined to be named, told TechCrunch that the hire  who would be its first financial staffer in Japan  is an important additiongiven the complexities of music licenses, and the relative nascency of music streaming in Japan  where CDs still rule for music sales. Keeping an eye on the books and financial flow is all the more important when margins are tighter and pressure is higher.Japan may be a tricky market but Spotify is already lagging the competition. Line, Japans top mobile messaging company, debuted a streaming service in June, and Apple Music thenentered the country this summer. Spotify isntjust responding to those moves, however. Our source said that while is it ramping up there, the country has long been a focus and Spotify is movingcautiously because music licensing is real tough in Japan.Were looking to be everywhere in Asia eventually. Weve had a Japanese team in place for a while but [theres] no confirmed launch date in the market as yet, a Spotify spokesperson told TechCrunch.One launch that will happen sooner, according to our insider, is Indonesia, the Southeast Asian country with a population of more than 250 million and fast growing smartphone sales.Another job vacancy at Spotify is a music editor for Indonesia[Spotify has since removed the listing], although the role is initially based inthe companys Singapore office. A spokesperson told us that the role is aimed atlocalizing the services Browse feature for Asia, and the job description shows plenty of playlist curation, content creationand more.But it clearly paves the way for a local launch, which we understand the companyis close to doing.Indonesiahas emerged as the most promising market for mobile in Southeast Asia, thanks to the continued growth of smartphone sales  up55 percent over the past year  and increasing adoption of mobile Internet. While the average digital spend per user is well below that of Japan, the U.S. or Europe, the potential is there forSoutheast Asia to be a mobile-first region. (Spotify now sees more than half of its activity on mobile.) Signs of business and revenue promise inIndonesia come from the e-commerce space. Rocket Internets Lazada, Mattahari Mall, a local outfit backed by $500 million, and Tokopedia, an Alibaba like service backed by SoftBankareall focused on cracking the country.In terms of rivals, Indonesian music streaming fans can tune into Rdio, Deezer, the French firm that plans to raise $345 million via an IPOthis month, MixRadio  which Line bought from MicrosoftAustralias Guveraand Apple Music.Finally, Spotify is also hiring a APAC Label Traffic Managerwhowill help to ensure that all ad campaigns run smoothly for our label partners across the region. (Spotify is also live in Australia and New Zealand, which are part of the APAC region.) This role doesnt hint at new launches, but the fact that the company is being more organized in its approach to label relations and performance in Asia, and Asia Pacific,shows the region is a greater priority.Despite the moves, theres no word on when the service will come to India, a market that is tipped to become as important for mobile as China and India.We absolutely want to make Spotify available in India as we do across the rest of Asia, but theres nothing to report as of now, a Spotify spokesperson told TechCrunch back in May of this year. Since theres no further update, India-based Spotify fans will need to use a VPN or create overseas account until the Swedish company makes its move.