HidrateMe aims to help you fill up on your H20 with a sensor that monitors your intake and syncs that information up with an app on your smartphone. Should you need more water than you are ingesting, the bottle will glow.The bottle is alsodoing exceptionally well on Kickstarter right now. The campaign blew past its original $35,000 goal in just one day and is now just over $45,000, with 41 days to go.There are quite a few other smart water bottles out there  the Trago smart bottle is running a concurrent Kickstarter campaign but hasnt even topped the $10,000 mark  despite being a staff pick.The BluFitraised almost $75,000 on Indiegogo but didnt reach even half its goal at the time the campaign ran. The Hug water bottle sensor and app almost hit its Kickstarter goal of $35,000, topping off at $28,227.There are many other smart water bottles  both in and out of crowdfunding campaigns. Nearly all of them tout themselves as the worlds first interactive water bottle or something close to that language. So why is HidrateMe, among all the bottles out there that seem to offer pretty much the same tracking and app features, doing so well from the start?Its all in the preparation the HidrateMe bottle creator Nadya Nguyen told TechCrunch. We did 80 percent of the work for the campaign before it even started, she said. Thanks to that, we rallied a large group of influencers in the fitness world to help us spread the word and had a big sign-up list with potential backers long before our Kickstarter launch.Nguyen also said she got a lot of feedback on the right price point, design and how to market the product before putting something up on the crowdfunding site.It might seem wrong to be urging people to drink more when theres a serious drought in California, butthats a whole discussion for another day about water usage and the farming industry. The fact is, water is an essential part of our daily lives, and we need it to maintain health and fitness. More than 750 million people around the world dont have access to adequate amounts of safe drinking water, according to the World Health Organization. While some of that is related to water-borne disease, its also due to lack of water.Drinking enough water can help prevent cancers in the colon and bladder, helps reduce crankiness and confusion and aids in weight loss. It is also essential for the proper circulation of nutrients in your body.Not all of us are going to carry a smart bottle everywhere, but for those who want a little extra help, the HidrateMe bottle is something nice-looking to bring with you. It also might be helpful to have something that tracks your drinking and glows to remind you to drink more.Each 24-ounce, BPA-free HidrateMe bottle goes for $39 on Kickstarter and comes in five colors to choose from  iceberg white, bamboo green, ocean teal, crystal pink, or obsidian black. The HidrateMe app will be available Winter 2015. Bottles should start shipping around that time as well.You can see the prototyping of HidrateMe in the video below: