Highway1 is a rare breed of accelerator that has realizedthe companiesthat most need help are the folks who are doing the startup thing with hardware products. In the final-version-is-final world of hardware startups, the companies passing through the accelerator are facing some of the biggest challenges in the startup world today. Heres a salute to the teams that survived the Highway1 summer 2016 programOkio is creating wrist-wearable comms tools for kids. Its so clever it hurts.If you have kids, youre facing a challenge: Do you give them a mobile phone (with all the negative aspects that brings), or do you not? Okio falls in between, creating a communications device that is an awful lot like a phone, but much simpler, and far easier for kids to get their head around.Okio creates age-appropriate communication devices for parents to stay in touch with their children; its a simple voice messaging tool utilizing a smartphone app and a discreet device kept by the child. Designed by parents to fit into a childs lifestyle, Okio is a unique wearable that is convenient and unobtrusive for children ages 5-12.I thinkOkio would really have to try hard to fail: Theyre filling a gap in the market that hasnt been properly addressed, and it feels like Okio have a product that parents have been clambering for a long time; it strikes the perfect balance between communication and letting your kids do their own thing, and having a way of communicating important messages without interrupting your kid in class seems like a no-brainer. If youre looking to invest, this is mypick of the bunch.XO announced that Lady Gaga is joining the company as an advisorHiding behind the genuinely an un-googleable (and therefore terrible) name,XOhas a fantastic idea with the execution skills to match. The company aims itself at the fashion-conscious gen Z 10-to-25-year-old consumers who have a passion for fashion and tech, hoping to merge the two. The company has an incredible track record, working with icons like Lady Gaga, Arcade Fire and the Black Eyed Peas, having been featured on stage at the Grammy awards. At the demo day, the company announced that they signed up Lady Gaga as an advisor to the company.I think the company has created a perfect storm of fashion and tech that is just itching to go mainstream viral. The company has built a platform to make it easy to create wearable technology clothing items at an affordable price point, and its easy to imagine high-street brands embracing its tech in huge marketing campaigns. If the company can get its messaging right and market its products in the right way to the right people, theyre going to make it huge.Blmio is a tremendously interesting startup that is trying to shake up the way blood pressure monitors work by adding a stick-on monitorusing radar technology rather than an inflatable cuff. The company makes it possible to monitor a persons heart health throughout the day.I think Blmio has positioned itself in a tremendously competitive market, but with a potentially huge pay-out at the end  heart health is a big topic, and while their technology still has a lot of challenges ahead of it before its ready for prime-time use, its definitely one to keep an eye on if youre a medtech investor or medical device manufacturer.If the TV show Silicon Valley is to believed, every company wants to change the world.Sensassure didnt mention that in their post (thank god), but that may just be the paththeyre on. The company is tackling achallengeinsenior care  specifically, with its Talli product, taking on the challenge of incontinence in elder care.Talli is a reusable sensor that sits on the outside of incontinence product, which wirelessly alerts caregivers when wetness is detected. In essence, it tells nurses when its time to change a diaper. Its a huge market worthy of disruption. The team deserves a mention for its dedication, too: Theyve been living in nursing and care homes for the past year, to really get on the pulse of the challenges that this market is facing.I thinkSensassure has a bright time ahead of it. Its solving a very real  if not very sexy  problem in an industry that is both well-funded and desperately overlooked from a tech point of view. The company is certainly facing an adoption challenge, but it does find itself in the enviable position of being both needed and in a space where acquisitions are many and frequent. Id be surprised if the company wasnt facing a bright future.Aiming squarely at the always-worried-parents market,Cocoon Cam is a wellness camera and software platform that provides real-time insight on the safety and well-being of your baby. The company is able to detect heart rate, respiration and skin temperature of a newborn, all without having to attach scary medical sensors to the child.I think the company taps into a world of fears for first-time parents, which may just be enough to become a successful business. The company has shown tremendous hustle  including appearing at the White House to demo their product to the First Family of the United States  and is tapping into a staggeringly huge market. The team gets whats at stake, and Id be surprised if the company didnt make a huge impact in the world of Tiny People Tech. Interestingly, the tech can be used beyond baby monitoring, too; the company showed off how they were able to detect signs of life on a sleeping inmate, which sparks some real inspiration; the technology can be used in all sorts of contexts.Coming slightly out of left field  or is that a reference to a different sport  is Courtmatics. The company is aiming to help athletes up their game. The first sport theyve aimed their wizardry at is tennis, with a in-racket (!) Internet of Things device in the form of a smart dampener to help coaches and players improve their game. The product tracks gameplay and streams data to a mobile app, where players can see their strengths and development areas.I think the product is more niche than some of the other ones presented today, but with tennis players as their audience, its certainly aimed at a generallyaffluent audience willing to spend the money. More interestingly, the company is aiming at a much broader audience than just tennis. Its name  Courtmatics  may just hold it back in its mission, but look beyond that, and you may just have a winner on your hands.If youve ever wished that bicycles had a common operating system, OpenBike is about to become your best friend.OpenBike is a connected bicycle ecosystem empowering the next generation of bicycle technology through an on-bike hardware product and software solution. One shared battery powers all accessories on the bicycle, charging your lights, your phone and other connected accessories. The platform enablesinteroperability between components, enables new features and integrates the hardware with apps and services in the cloud.I think cycling is becoming a bigger part of our urban lives, and having a smart bike makes an awful lot of sense. The company is working with Marin bikes to create a series of prototypes, and its easy to see how a more in-depth partnership might just leap-frog the competitors to market. I remain to be fully convinced that a bike really needs to be part of the Internet of things, but theres no denying that theres plenty of cyclistswho are willing to spend real moolah on their two-wheeled friends  and OpenBike may just kick open the door to a big change in our ideas about what a bike ought to have in its accessory package.If youve ever found yourself thinking that VR isnt reality-like enough, OBEby Machina  where OBE is short forOut of Body Experience  might just have the answer. The company has found a way toblend the digital and physical worlds to create an immersive gaming experience. The companys first product enablesusers to feel and control virtual reality worlds. The jacket seamlessly integrates motion sensors, directional control and full-body haptic feedback into a single garment. In short, its some truly sexy shit, and Samsung seems to think so, too; they ordered 500 of the OBE jackets for trialling and demoing in its retail stores.I think OBE solves a problem I cant really relate to; yes, haptic feedback seems like something that should exist, but I cant really say its something thats been missing from my life. Theyre hoping to pair the experience with entry-level VR experiences like Samsung Gear or Google Cardboard, and I just cant really see how theres a need in this market for something like OBE  but, having said that, its cool enough that Id be delighted to be proven wrong.The team behind Calliope is trying to bring the Internet of Things to your water usage. The companys first product is Buoy,a connected water meter that gives homeowners real-time information about their water use, with a remote shut off in case of emergencies. Water consumption data is presented with actionable insights and notifications in a user-friendly app, enablinghomeowners to achieve up to 20 percent reduction in water use, without a huge impact to theirlifestyle.I thinkCalliope is thinking along the right lines, and that a big utilities provider may just see the need for the product in the marketplace. Having said that, they currently aim their product at consumers. To the utility companies, this may be a problem worth solving, butI have a hard time believing theyll be able to find enough customers who care enough about the problem to build a viable business in the B2C space.Not one to waste any time, Highway1 is sending the hopeful companies into the world to spread their wings and do their things, and at the same time opened applications for the next Highway1 cohort. If that sounds like your sort of thing, get your applications in now.