The doors to TechCrunch Disrupt NY 2016 opened May 9 atthe Brooklyn Cruise Terminal. Thethree-day conferencehosted 2,300 attendees andhundreds of thousands more tuning in online. Indeed, Disrupt NY 2016wasthe first media conference to stream on Facebook Live in full, makingit one of our most watched events ever.In the much-anticipated Startup Battlefield, 22competitors pitched to a panel of judges in hopes of winning the Disrupt Cup and the $50,000 Grand Prize.TechCrunch editors pored over the judges notes and, after hours of deliberations, narrowed the list down to six finalists: online kid safety service Bark, interactive Twitch alternative Beam, Blockchain credit startup for emerging countries BitPagos, daily vitamin maker Ritual, underwater drone SeaDrone and ultra-affordable water filtration system WaterO.Beam took home the grand prize for itsplatform that ties in with the growing world of e-sports to offer a low-latency chat platform for live streamed games. Beyond that, Beam lets viewers actually interact with the games by measuring the general intent of all the comments to play along with the live streaming gamer. You can think of it as a Twitch WePlay that actually works. WaterO was the runner-up.Beforethe conference kicked off, 1,000 hackers stayed up all night to pump out apps, sites and hardware in the Disrupt Hackathon. Each group had one minute to present to a panel of judges on stage. The winning hack wasAlexaSite, which lets designers update websites using their voice. This tech lets youmake small adjustments to a site on the go without having to dive into your CSS sheets. AlexaSite uses Amazons Alexa API and works with Squarespace websites. The two runners-up were Bumperz and Hungry Host.Day 1On Day 1, a number of esteemed speakers from the tech landscape took the stage to discuss the latest in the world of tech. Alex Chung of Giphyhinted at ways to turn GIFs into revenue streams. Nate Cardozo (EFF) and Marten Mickos (HackerOne) warned that the Internet of Things is a security nightmare. TheSkimmfounders Danielle Weisberg and Carly Zakin talked about building an obsessive audience. A venture capital panel saw a discussion about how LPs are feeling the pressure of startups not finding exits.TillFaida of AdBlock Plus said that the software has closed in on a billion downloads.Meanwhile, IAB CEO Randall Rothberg argued that AdBlock Plus is an extortion-based business.We saw the first demo of Viv, the next-gen AI assistant from Siri creator Dag Kittlaus.We held a panel on fixing techs culture problem withErica Baker (Slack), Danielle Mastrangel Brown (Intel) and Carissa Romero (Paradigm). We learned that Parrots CEOHenri Seydoux is building a t-shirt. We checked in withDennis Crowley and Jeff Glueck (Foursquare) and discussed how the company plans to hit profitability.B.J. Novak and Dev Flaherty announced the rebranding of their list app li.st, and discussed how they plan to app-ify lists. Finally, we sat down withDave Cole (NextVR) and Shanna Tellerman (Modsy) for a VR-focused panel.Day 2Day 2 started off with a conversation with Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures, in which he asserted that the future of tech investing remains strong. Afterwards,Talmon Marco (Juno) talked about taking on Uber. Amazon Echo VP Mike George talked aboutAlexa security and simplifying speech. Blue Apron, Maple and Sweetgreen founders talked about how to grow a food startup. Facebook Messengers head of productStan Chudnovsky revealed on stage that more than 10,000 developers are building chatbots and analytics are coming.We caught up with Casey Neistat and talked about his app Beme and how to inspire others usingvideo, and went live on Facebook with him backstage. We talked startup studios in a panel withJohn Borthwick (Betaworks), Heather Hartnett (Human Ventures Capital) and Naveen Selvadurai (Expa).Vlad Tenev (Robinhood) and Jon Stein (Betterment) clashed on how to disrupt investing.Sridhar Ramaswamy, Googles head of advertising, talked ad blocking, mobile and micropayments. YouNows Adi Sideman talked about how to make money in live streaming.Tim Armstrong (Aol) and Fred Wilson discussed New Yorks tech growth.Chris Milk of Vrse talked about entering the age of VR storytelling.David Plouffe of Uber (and former White House advisor) talked about background checks, the Austin Uber ban and tipping.Day 3On the final day of Disrupt NY,Sallie Krawcheck (Ellevest) talked about the investing gender gap. SoledadOBrien discussed her new sequel documentaryabout being black in Silicon Valley.Alfred Lin (Sequoia Capital) and Tony Xu (DoorDash) spoke about how DoorDash must strike a balance between profitability and growth.Jessica Alba and Chris Thorne got transparent about the lawsuits facing The Honest Company.Robyn Exton (Her), Dawoon Kang (Coffee Meets Bagel) and Whitney Wolfe (Bumble) talked about monetization, churn and standing out in the mobile dating space.Carmelo Anthony and Stuart Goldfarb (Melo7 Tech Partners) talked about Anthonys foray into the VC world.Ted Livingston of Kik revealed that Kikhas more than 6,000 bots reaching 300 million registered users.Andras Forgacs (Modern Meadow) and Dan Widmaier (Bolt Threads) spoke on a fashion panel.Former Director of the NSA and the CIA General Michael Hayden closed out our speaker panels with a discussion about the state of surveillance in America.Thank you to everyone who attended and tuned in to Disrupt NY 2016, and we hope to see you atDisrupt SF on September 12-14 and Disrupt London on December 5-6. Applications to apply for SFs Startup Battlefield competition will begin soon. You can find more photos from the event on ourFlickr feed, and read more coverage in our Disrupt Flipboard magazine.