Amazon may be leadingthe internet-of-things market when it comes to push-button ordering via hardware devices like its Dash grocery scanner and Dash buttons, but its not without its competition. Today, a company called hiku announced thesecond generation of its own shopping button, which now allows customers to order groceries from Walmarts online service as well as Peapod, an Instacart rival in the Northeast U.S.As with Amazons Dash scanner, hiku customers can speak or scan items they want to order, which are stored on ashopping list and matched to online inventory at Walmart or Peapod, depending on your preference.The device itself, for those unfamiliar, is a piece of hardware with a button you press before speaking into its microphone. You can also use the Wi-Fi connected handheld device to scan grocery items from your fridge or pantry, which are then synced to hikus mobile app for iOS or Android.Founded in 2012 by two ex-Palm engineers,Rob Katcher and Rajan Bala, hiku actually debuted just ahead of Amazons Dash, but will likely benefit from Amazons entry in the space as Dashs existence is helping to educate consumers about how shopping gadgets can work.This latest version of hikus scanner includes a number of improvements over the debut release, includinginstant-on for faster scanning and voice recording, improved audio capture for better voice recognition, and greater resistance to spills, the company says.Thatfirst item is a much-needed tweak from generation one, as before, consumers would have to wait a couple of seconds for the device to connect to Wi-Fi before they could use it.Now, theyre able to just walk up, press the button and speak their item, like paper towels, for example, Katcher explains.As for thevoice recognition, this has also seen an upgrade. Hikunow includes a digital microphone with better audio isolation, as well as louder beep feedback so consumers know their voice has been recognized, says Katcher. And, he adds, the device is more kitchen-hardy, too, with improved sealing to fight day-to-day wear, including from flour or water spills, for instance.Of course, the more interesting upgrade with the new hiku is on the software side. The company is one of the first to use Peapod and Walmarts APIs to connect to their grocery shopping businesses.Peapod currently offers delivery and pickup in 24 markets across 13 U.S. states, mostly in the northeast.Meanwhile, Walmarts online grocery shopping service, has been rapidly expanding in recent weeks, and is now live in over 20 U.S. cities.To use this feature, you dont necessarily have to scan abarcode in order for hiku to find an exact match between a givenSKU and online inventory. Instead, you can ask for generic items like milk, eggs, or bread, and hiku will shop for you choosing those products that make sense, based on your prior choices. In other words, the software learns the more you use it.In the apps new Get It Now section, customers can also review their list and see how its matched up with online inventory at Walmart or Peapod, then edit items as they choose. When you tap on an item, hiku will show you alternative products, and it will remember your selection for the next time.Typically, the device sells for $79  a bit steep for a convenience item like this. However, the 2nd generation hiku is going to be available for $49 from today through the end of the year, in an effort to boost sales. The original hiku will be no longer be sold, though early adopters will be able to use the Walmart/Peapod ordering feature using their existing app and hardware combination.Given the startups still early stage, execs declined to speak about shipments or sales figures at this time. Though Amazon is helping carve out a market for devices like this, hiku is still early on the scene  push-button ordering is not yet proven or mainstream. That could be a challenge for hiku going forward.Still, Hiku has a bit of cushion for now. The company hasraised $3.9 million to date from investors includingFirsthand Capital , Jerry Yangs AME Cloud Ventures, and Ash Patel at Morado Ventures to continue to grow its business.