Dubsmash, a roughly two-year-old, 15-person, Berlin-based startup whose video messaging app lets userscreate and share dubbed selfie videos (you choose afamousaudio clip, then record yourself lip-syncing the words or lyrics),has justraised $5.5 million in Series A funding.Index Ventures led the round,with firm cofounder Danny Rimer joining the companysboard.Other investors to join the round include Lowercase Capital, ENIAC Ventures, Sunstone Capital, Raine Ventures and King Digital Entertainment CEO Riccardo Zacconi.Actress Olivia Munn recently used the app to hilarious effect. (Her boyfriend, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, gotin on the act, too.) Agrowing number ofcelebrities have also discovered it, including Hugh Jackman, Jennifer Lopez and Arnold Schwarzenegger.Worth noting: according to Dubsmash cofounder Roland Grenke, the company hasnt approached any of themtheyre finding it on their own (along with a lot of college students, we hear).Wed firstcovered Dubsmash available on both the Apple iOS and Android  earlier this year. Since then, it has reached the number one spot on Apples App Store in 78 countries and the top 10 in 118 countries, it says, though its popularity in the U.S. seems to have dropped a bit in recent months. (This according to App Annie data. See below.)Asked about the genesis of Dubsmash, Grenke tells usits theteams third attempt at an app since starting the company in mid-2013 after the three founders met at a Berlin-basedhackathon. Their last effort before Dubsmash wasStarlize, an app that let userscreate personal music videosbut was too complicated, says Grenke.As for a business plan, Grenke tells usDubsmashsees multiple opportunities for monetization in the future, but [we] believe that its too early to focus on them right now. Instead, were 100 percentfocused on the user as we work on user engagement and retention.Grenke tells us he doesnt see Dubsmash giving birth to numerous other, related apps, by the way. Rather,the company hopes to transform it into a meatier communication platform andstick with one app.You cancheck outMunn and Rodgers having fun with itbycovering Mariah Carey. And Sarah McLachlan. And Boyz II Men.