It looks like anotherchapter is in the worksforHem, the home designstartup headed by Jason Goldberg that first emerged asa pivot from the Fab.com design marketplace in 2014. Weve heard from multiple sources that Hem.com has been trying to sell itselfand thatVitra, a high-end furniture company based inSwitzerland, is currently in the frame to buy it.From what we understand, Hem.com  a Berlin-based business thatdesigns, makes and sells its own line of stylish furniture and other home products  had received several offers. Aterm sheet for asale to Vitra has been signed. However, the deal has not yet been completed, which means something could still change. One source claimsthe acquisitionis being done for only$20 million.Weve contacted Vitra for comment but have not received a response. Jason Goldberg declined to comment for this article. One hint of a connection is that Goldberg happened totravelto Basel in November, around the time that a source says negotiationswere taking place. Vitra is based inBirsfelden, Switzerland, right next to Basel.If the $20 million figureis accurate  or even in the same canton its a big dropfor the startup.Goldberg and co-founder Bradford Shellhammer hadraised over $300 million in funding at a $1 billion valuation from investors that includedAndreessen Horowitz, Atomico, First Round, Menlo Ventures and Sherpa, Tencent, the Washington Post, and several others.(Much has changed since the last mega round in 2013: Shelhammer left the business in November of that year, andnow is the founder of Bezar.The remaining Fab.com assets wereacquired by PCHin March 2015. Hem.com, meanwhile, kept Fabs originalfunding, investors and valuation.)Its not knownwhy Hem.comdecided to look for a buyer. Since going live in September 2014, Hem.com has not shared toomuchinformation about how the business has progressed, or whether sales of its tables, lamps, shelves, oak pigeons and other objects have met expectations.But inan optimisticone-year anniversary post, Goldbergnoted that it had nearly quadrupled the number of products in its range to 330 SKUs and sold tens of thousands of units to consumers and businesses.Nor is it clear how Hem.com was doing in terms of its own capital position. When it launched, Goldberg said the plan was to build a profitable operation, without resorting to more fundraising.When I went to the board and recommended this direction, I did so with a large war chest, Goldbergsaid at the time of the launch. We are building a high margin business. Im committed to building a profitable business on the money weve raised up to now. We have no plans to raise additional funds.It may be that a tie-up with a company like Vitra could be one way for Hem to move to better economies of scale. Vitra already focuses on high-end furniture,producingand sellingiconic chairs and other piecescreated by the likes ofCharles and Ray Eames, for example.Itself the product of a pivot from gay social network Fabulis,Fab.com saw a surge of early interest from consumers, but its fate reads like a cautionary tale for the e-commerce industry.Even while peoplewere enthusiasticallyclickingto buy Fabsquirky mix of kitsch, hip and slickhome design and other products, the company found it hard to scale to meet demand in a cost-effective way.E-commerce is very much a scale business, where thewinner takes all, Goldberg told TechCrunch in 2014, around the time that he was refocussing efforts on Hem.com.Its not that hard to build a $100 million revenue e-commerce business, but how do you scale after initial customer enthusiasm toconsistently shipping fast, holding inventory, and so on. Whenyou have scale it is much easier.Fab.commissed revenue targets, and at its peak burned through $14 million per monthdue to highmarketing and other expenses. That led to the company reducingstaff, closing operations and rethinking the business, not so muchas the next Amazon but asa more focused enterprise.The product of that was Hem.com, a vertically integrated, stylish home furnishings and design business that mightyieldless sales volume, but higher margins.When you are selling third-party products and the margins are very low and customer expectations are very high, it was not a model you could execute successfully, not a model where we liked to operate, Goldberg told TechCrunch in 2014. So we decided we wanted to invest in making our own products and being full stack.Hem.comwas meant to be more pared down than Fab.com, but it still brought together several other acquisitions  MassivKonzeptin Berlin, One Nordic in Helsinki, MyFab in France and assets from Italys Discipline.