
Karthik Sridharan is co-founder and CEO of Kinnek.Its an established fact that Americans love to shop during the holidays. The frenzy of rushing to the local mall or Main Street to snap up the latest Black Friday deals is a time-honored tradition, and, in the last decade,soisshoppingonline on Cyber Monday.We go on to joyously spend our way through the month of December until stores close on Christmas Eve  only to embark on the after-Christmas-sales surge onDecember 26.During the 2014holidayseason, U.S. consumers shelled out around $610 billion on retail purchases. This represents about 19 percent of the entire years retail sales (Source: U.S. Census Bureau, National Retail Federation). For 2015,holidayretail sales are expected to remain at similar stratospheric levels, with the notable difference of a larger-than-expected shift from brick-and-mortarshoppingtoward buying online.Theholidayspike in retail purchasing is a fascinating social and economic phenomenon that transcends cultural, religious and geographic boundaries here in the U.S. With all this talk about consumers buying things, it begs the question: Do businesses, specifically small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs), also spend a disproportionately large amount on purchases during theholidayseason? Surprisingly, the answer is a resounding no.In fact, theholidayseasonactually has a slightly negative impact on SMB purchasing behavior.Source: KinnekSohow can this trend be explained? Why do manySMBspurchase on a different cycle than consumers? There are three main reasons.First, the consumer culture ofholidaygift-giving is a primary driver of retailshopping. The absence of this behavior at any meaningful level for businesses means that they lack the same drivers to purchase during the holidays.Additionally, because B2B-focused suppliers are cognizant of this lack ofholidayexcitement for business purchasing, they in turn dont give out as many Black Friday, Cyber Monday or Holiday deals. This lack of deals consequently yields less excitement among SMB buyersand soon andsoforth.Second, purchasing seasonality does exist for a lot of small businesses, butis often driven by events that impact business production or sales, like weather and harvest cycles versus public holidays. For example, equipment purchases among wineries and cideries are typically made in the months leading to the fruit harvest in late summer/early fall.Colleges and universities start purchasing auxiliary products for dorms and dining rooms after school lets out for the year. In mid-summer, breweries begin to stock up on specialty bottles or packaging to prepare for the now-ubiquitous pumpkin aleseason.Source: KinnekAnd finally, due to the consumer-facing nature of manySMBs(i.e., they sell to consumers), business purchasing habits are in fact driven byholidayshoppingspikes, but with a phase shift. Many B2C companies experience during theholidayrush a massive spike in consumer demandfor their products and services.So, their priority is to prepare for that spike inholiday-time demand, and that often means preparing way in advance.For example, bars, restaurants and other retail stores that want themed promotional items and glassware in time to meet theholidaydemand surge will need to begin planning those purchases weeks or months in advance. This has the effect of smoothing out small business purchasing across the latter half of the year instead of concentrating it during the last few weeks of theholidayseason.A secondary impact of this surge in demand seen by consumer-facingSMBsduring the holidays is that these businesses tend to prioritize catering to that demand over planning for long-term capacity increases.SMBsdont drastically slow down their rate of research and requesting quotes for new purchases during the busyholidayseason. However, they do delay their purchase decisions until after their busiestseasonis over.Source: KinnekThe unique nature ofSMBsyields a very different approach to purchasing than consumers. Consumerholidayexuberance highlights the stark contrast between these groups. If you are a B2B company trying to cater to small businesses, taking the time to understand thisdifferent pattern of behavior will pay dividends.