Founder of DesiHits! Anjula Acharia-Bath is the newest partner at venture capital firm Trinity Ventures. Bath has been named one of Billboards International Power Players and Top 40 Women in Music as well as a member of Vanity Fairs Next Establishment list. But she spent the last year as an entrepreneur-in-residence with Trinity and decided to join the firm.The Brittish born and raised founder and philanthropist has a knack for connecting Tinseltown to the tech crowd. Shes worked with a long list of mega-celebs like Lady Gaga and Britney Spears, partnered with Jimmy Iovine for the U.S. launch of Bollywood star Priyanka Chopra, and has been an active investor and advisor to startups like ClassPass, Mayvenn and the Tyra Banks-backed shopping platform The Hunt.Bath hasnt made her first investment just yet -and is not an investment partner  but plans to focus on diversity, female founders, and Hollywood. This happens to be a focus that comes with its own special set of skills.Funding tech startups is more popular than ever in the movie industry, but not many celebrities get the startup world. On the flip of that are founders that believeadding a celebrity to their investor list will hold some sort of cachet.It doesnt.Theres definitely this huge thing in Hollywood right now where everyones like whoa, I want to make a million dollars and I have to go to Silicon Valley to do that.They dont realize most startups fail, its really hard to be Instagram and Facebook and Twitter. Its not as easy as it looks, Bath told TechCrunch.Bath is fortunately armed with a tech background and a wealth of star contacts to give her the leg up in helping the Hollywood scene navigate Silicon Valley.Bath told TechCrunch shewould also like a big part of her focus to be on bridging the gender and diversity gap. Im definitely driven by diversity and Im going to be bringing in a lot of that to Trinity Ventures, Bath, both female and of Indian descent said. Shementioned the large African American population in the arts and pop culture that she has access to.According to Trinity Ventures, at least seven out of 10 of its partners are in a minority class, and 3 of the partners are women  though the partner label may mean staff beyond investment partners. Trinitys website lists eight general partners, 5 of which are a woman or minority. Bath is not a general partner with the firm but will be helping with deal flow.Trinity plans to bring in more diversity in the future. We joke that the minority is the majority there, Bath said. Let me tell you theres going to be more. Because why not? Were going to take over the business.VC firms are notoriously mostly all male and all white. Bringing in diversity  including women, minorities, and those outside Silicon Valley is something several Bay Area firms have pledged to focused on. Some of that is just lip service, but its at the heart of why Bath decided to join Trinity.She recently hosted an event that brought together a notable group of entrepreneurs and executives from Silicon Valley and Hollywood, including Kimberley Bryant, the CEO of Black Girls Code, and Boz Saint John from Beats Music to discuss breaking down stereotypes in entertainment and other hot-button issues.[Anjulas] deep network crosses industries and spans geographies in ways that very few people can match, Trinity partner Ajay Chopra said. The doors Anjula has already opened will make a significant impact on our portfolio companies and on Trinity. We are extremely lucky to have her, and I look forward to seeing how she will help transform our consumer portfolio companies.