The battle between headsets you strap to your heads is being brought to a rolling boil this week, as Microsofts HoloLens Dev Kitand Oculus Riftboth start shipping to customers.Being the lover of cutting-edge tech that I am, youd expect Id be in lust with both technologies, but it turns out that isnt the case. HoloLens did something to me that Oculus never managed to: It made me think I was leaping into the future with glee and great abandon.The two devices are similar in that theyre both screens you attach to your head like a Frankensteinian experiment in man-meets-machine. That is where the similarities end. Most importantly,there are very different use cases for both: Oculus virtual reality (VR) is for storytelling experiences, gaming and, perhaps, if you feel particularly iron-stomached, a roller coaster or two.A HoloLens is like wearing a heavy set of sunglasses attached to a headband. Which is why its really curious that its so easy to forget they are even there.HoloLens, on the other hand, is the poster child for augmented reality (AR). Its essentially a more high-tech version of where Google Glass crashed and burned  but instead of trying to forcibly insert a computer where it doesnt belong (ahem), the HoloLens has a slightly different remit: Unlike the ill-fated Glass, its not a wear-it-all-the-time piece of kit.While the $600 Oculus Rift is far cheaper than the $3,000 HoloLens Dev Kit, the latter has a full computer built into the headset. Conversely, Rift needs to be tethered to a beefy gaming computer that can do the heavy lifting on the graphicsside. You don not need to spend the $2,400 difference on the computer to drive the Rift, but you easily can, and at that point, the price difference seems moot.Its not even sort of about the money, however; the biggest problem I have with Oculus is that I just dont see the point.Watching a movie is a shared experience, whichislost when you have a mask strapped around your face. Ihavent the time for gaming. And while stories like Henry show that there is definitely something to be gained from VR, its not something Id necessarily seek out  and definitely not if I have to drop $2,500 or more on a kit in order to explore it.It was against this backdrop that I let someone jack me into the matrix with a HoloLens hanging off my face: I fully expected to hate every second of it, but I was wrong. And I was hooked. Hooked beyond words. This is tech that makes sense for people who dont want to lock themselves away from the world, who want technology to enhance, improve and, indeed, augment their lives.The Microsoft Hololens demos showed that AR can be social, collaborative, and in the real world. More importantly, you forget that youre even wearing it.Theres no way of explaining how fast youll get used to the world suddenly having a layer of data over it. Within 20 minutes of putting the device on for the first time, it felt completely normal. Natural, even.Those little red things are speakers, pointing at your ears. Not wearing earbuds or earphones helps the device stay curiously unobtrusive.At one point, there were six of us, all wearing HoloLenses, interacting with the same 3D model and each other in real time. One of Microsofts babysitters walked over and asked, So, where is the Energy Portal. I looked over at him, frowned and was wondering what the hell was wrong with him.It isright there,I snapped, pointing. It was at that point that Icaught myself, realizing he wasnt wearing a HoloLens, and so obviously had no way of seeing where the portal was. That was the exact moment that I realized why AR makes so much more sense than VR: Being in the real world is natural, even if it has digital doo-dahs floating about in your field of vision. Being in a fully artificial world isnt.One of the challenges HoloLens is going to have to continue to face is that when youre wearing one and interacting with things that nobody can see, you look like someone whos three marbles short of a full set of wits. Take the HoloLens demonstration at the Build conference, for example:Yes, the people wearing the HoloLenses in the videolook like absolute imbeciles. Theres no way around that, butonce youve tried it, you wont care how you look.To me, the magic of this technology is at the intersection where the real world and the augmented world meet. I have no interest in completely immersing myself in a faraway wonder world, buta piece of kitthat can change the world around me, today, for $3,000? Sign me up.At Build, the futurejust sort of leapt out at me, unexpected and unannounced. Im sold. VR is nifty and all, but I still havent had anyone give me a compelling explanation for what it isfor. AR is a very different story, and I cant wait to see what the next chapter brings.