Mark Douglass daughter was shopping around for an apartment. But theperson showing apartments just assumed that because she was young she didnt have the buying power to afford an expensive apartment  and they didnt have any data to back that up.Thats whereHomeMe, an application that helps people get pre-approved for apartment rentals, comes in. With such a huge market, Douglas and his co-founderLindsey Hollanddecided that theywanted to help streamline the process of finding an apartment rental, and built a service that looks to replace the waypeople hunt for apartments. HomeMe launched at TechCrunch Disrupt NY.People would rather do their taxes than rent an apartment, or go to the DMV, Douglas said.its something consumers dont like, andpropertymanagementcompanies dont like either  its super inefficient, showing apartmentsto people you dont know and dont know if they can even afford to rent it.The experience is pretty simple. Users download the app and give it some basic income data, and then eventually their social security number. Then the app shows them which apartments are in their price range for which they are pre-approved. Users can start the lease directly from the app after looking at the apartment, Douglas said. On the back end, the app is basically crawling through its database of apartmentsto match up the right ones with the user.When users want to book a lease, thats when HomeMe asks for more information to verify their income. Users can pay security deposits through the app, as well with a credit card, Douglas said.The app launched in Houston two months ago in a beta. Users view 21 apartments per session, and 15 percent of them arebooking tours during those sessions, Douglas said.HomeMe is free to consumers  who dont actually have to pay an application fee any more  and the company charges property management companies a fee when they rent.HomeMe works with property management companies to connect pre-approved customers to the right apartments, so it isnt a waste of time showing an apartment to a prospective buyer whocouldnt afford it or doesnt have a good enough credit score. Its a problem that most people can relate to: Hunting for apartments can be a huge pain, especially after looking at an apartment only to find out youre not qualified to rent it.HomeMe is starting off in Houston (though the team is in Los Angeles) primarily because its a huge apartment rental market. About 40 percent of the apartments in that market are signed on to the app, Douglas said. The company has already been looking outside the U.S., in places like the U.K. and China, where the problems are similar, Douglas said.Scaling, to be sure, will be a big challenge. HomeMe has to basically connect with property management companies in order to add inventory to the application and streamline the pre-approval process. But a smaller number of property management companies manage the bulk of the apartments in the United States, making it easier to sign partnerships.This is Douglass second go-round, and he spends other parts of his time as CEO of SteelHouse, a marketing platform thats raised more than $60 million in venture financing.I think the core  getting pre-approved from the next apartment  that one sense encapsulates the value for all sides, Douglas said. It takes all the anxiety out and empowersthe consumer and the property managers as well, them seeing renters they know meet their qualifications.