
Harry Stebbings is the founder and host of The Twenty Minute VC
, an independent podcast focused on venture capital. We constantly hear there aremore seed and early stage funds now than ever beforeandmore angelswilling to give money to young companies looking to make it big. Until recently this explosion in the early stage funding environment really was a concern.Still, some firms, and their partners, are managing to do it well. And Satya Patel at Homebrew is a perfect example.Themain cause for my concern when viewing the market was how can early stage VCs stand out in the crowded market of seed funding?I walked away from our conversation with Satya and wanted to analyze what it was about Satya and Homebrew that allowed them to succeed.A great VC has aninsatiable desire to learn, according to Patel, and both partners learn all they canabout the startups they invest in.Further, the two investors have a bottom up thesis on the market.Technology is a great democratizer, says Patel. Its impacting individuals, groups and industries now in a way that it hasnt historically, because its gotten more flexible, more accessible, less expensive.Since the firms first investment in Clementine  a joint effort between Patel and Hunter Walk  which was sold in 2015 to Dropbox  the firm has a continuously changing set of criteriabut strong beliefs in their core thesis.We have strong beliefs, weakly held, Patel continues. weve got principles that are kind of immutable, that we stick by in terms of our investing. But in terms of what thecriteria that we think about  those are always changing and morphing, and hopefully improving.For startups, the key to raising funds from Homebrew (or more broadly) is to establish emotional resonance with potential investors. Patel outlines two types of emotional resonance. Its either the personal story of the founder  and the connection they make with the investor. Or is it the mission itself for the company.The founder and the mission are the two things that can establish emotional resonance early on, Patel advises.