Could Facebooks experimental group, Facebook Creative Labs, finally have a hit on its hand with its private, photo-sharing app Facebook Moments? The early data looks promising. The app, which lets you get photos from friends andshare photos in return, while also organizing them privately on your phone for safe-keeping, seems to have solved one of the long-standing challenges with photo sharing: getting copies of the photos you didnt take.The app is currently performing better in its category (Photo & Video) than nearly any of the Facebook Creative Labs efforts, including Paper, Slingshot, Rooms, Hello, Riff and others.Moments, for those unfamiliar, scans your camera roll, runs facial recognition, and suggests you send people the photos theyre in. It can also recognize landscapes and other photos you took from a shared outing and recommend you pass them on to people who were there.Ever since smartphones became ourcamera of choice, a number of startups have tried to address theproblems withphoto sharing by launching various tools and services allowing users to privately share photos with friends outside of the context of larger, more visible social networks.In some cases, these came in the form of closed, mini-social networks, group messaging apps, or collaborative photo album builders. In other cases, the apps were more utilitarian in nature.But the majority of these collaborative photo-sharing apps have failed  even those that initially gained traction and attention, like the clever Flock app from Bump(above), which was later acquired by Google; or Lasso, created by an original Photobucket founder, who later sold his app back to Photobucketthen returned to the company.Others competing include anapp called Memoir, whichfocuses on more predictive photo-sharing behaviors, as well asa new app calledShoto, to name a couple more.But the problem with these apps, in so many cases, has beenone of scale.Sure, you may sign up as an early adopter, but convincing others to do the same is always difficult.Facebook, meanwhile, has the power and heft to solve the scale problem.With roughly 1.5 billion monthly active users, 844 million of whom use the service daily, nearly everyone you know is on Facebook. That means the company can leverage itslarger social network to both market Facebook Moments more visibly, as well as subtly encourageadoption through integrations with Facebooks core features, like Notifications.Its also pushing Momentsnotifications through Messenger, which is currently the #1 Free app on the App Store.Anecdotally speaking (scroll down for hard data!), Ive witnessedFacebook Moments gaining traction. I had a feeling that Moments was starting to dowell when I discovered that several of my normal friends (i.e. non-technical, everyday smartphone owners) were using it. Often, these are the people who are last to adopt new technology, and sometimes never bother at all with social apps they dont understand, like Foursquare and Snapchat, for example.Oh, just send the photos to me on Moments, a neighbor said, after asking me to share some photos from an outing. (Youre on Moments?, I thought.)Later, with only a little peer pressure, I convinced a couple offriendsto download the app onto their phones, even though theyre usually the kind of people whodont bother with apps at all.Another, also less tech-inclined, friend muttered to me about how she keeps seeing Facebook Moments in her Notifications feed.All my friends are usingit. I know Ill have to download it eventually, she said with a sigh.Accepting an apps download as inevitable? As a foregone conclusion?Well, that may not be the spirit Facebook would like to see when encouraging user adoption, but theres certainly something to be said for the shove it down their throat method Facebook is now capable of employing.After all, just look what it did for Messenger  Facebooks standalone messaging app that Facebook forcedeveryone to download by ripping out chat from its main Facebook app. That app has soared in the days since andis now consistently in the top 10 free apps, if not No. 1 or No. 2, on the iTunes App Store.Moments is getting a big push from Facebook, which speaks to the companys belief that this app has hit potential.Currently, photo-sharing activity in Moments gets published as a Facebook notification which brings it visibility; Moments themselves canbe turned into mini-videos that can be posted directly on Facebook Timelinesto encourage viral spread; and Facebook has even gone so far as to actively promote it at the top of the Facebook mobile apps News Feed  an app install ad of its very own.This News Feed promotion is pretty rare for Facebook. The companyhas watched dozens of apps and features die off, preferring natural selection to clear out those that couldnt succeed on their own. So for Moments to make an appearance here means that it has likely crossed some sort of threshold of satisfaction where Facebook believesits helping you, not annoying you, withthe promotion.The payoff, Facebook hopes, is widespread adoption.So far, that appears to be working.Facebook Moments has not yet experienced the usualpeak related to mediacoverage and early adoptionfollowed by arapid declineas users try the new app, then disappear, never to return. Instead, the app has been holding steady in the charts, even flirting with the top ranks at times.What makes Facebook Moments compelling for users is itssimplicity. Behind its minimalist interface, Facebook has actually packed in a number of powerful features, including the ability to group photos from the same event (i.e., date, place and time).And it takes advantage of facial recognition  similar to the technology that powers Facebooks tag suggestions  to recommend a list offriends you should sync a group ofphotos to. This comes across as smarts, not creepiness, as its a subtle implementationthat speeds up usage.When youre ready to share photos, it only takes a second to check or uncheck those you want to include in a batch, and an auto-completing search box lets you quickly add more friends to receive the bundle. To share, you swipe a group of photos to the right  much like you do on Tinder, which makes the interface easy to use. And todismiss a group, you swipe left.As a recipient, Moments also does everything right. Photos are private by default  theyre not posted to Facebook. However, you arenotified via Facebook of the incoming share  even if youre not yet a Moments user. This is likely prompting some viraladoption. Moments is also being spread through Messenger  when a friend shares photos with you in Moments, youll receive a notification in Facebooksmessaging app that includes a preview.Finally, Moments acknowledges that users have worlds outside of Facebook. The app letsyou download the photos to your own phone, or share individual photos back to other social networks.Though Moments works well, thats not to say the app is perfect. There are things it could do better.For example, when setting it up on a new phone, it dove way too deep into my photo archive offering to sync photos from years ago. There should be a setting that lets you sync photos from this moment forward, instead of forcing you to dismiss dozens of batch suggestions.The says thanks option is also so small its easy to miss. And theapp doesnt push hard enough when it comes to making suggestions about what to share back  it would be great if it mergedphotosinto a single album after it discovers you and friends synced your own sets of photos from the same event, but didnt collaborate on an album, for instance.Finally, offering an easy way to build an album thats synced to family and friends via email or web would be a handy additionforincluding the handful of people who arent Facebook members, or arent regular users. (Like grandma and grandpa.)Its too early to dub the app a breakout success, but Facebooks efforts in boosting Moments have been paying off. The app has climbed from ranking in the low 200s in the Photo & Video category on the App Store in the days and weeks after its launch this summer, and isnow fighting its way into the top 50, or even top 20, at times.Last week it was nearly breaking into the top 50; this week its declined a bit to the 70s. Today, its No. 64.Thanks to its News Feed promotion, Facebook Moments even climbed into the top 20 Photo & Video rankings this month.Its worth also noting that the Photo & Video category is one of the most competitive on the App Store (for non-game apps), as its top ranks are filled with a numberof the most popular consumer-facing applications, like YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, Instagrams Layout,Google Photos, Photoshop, Shutterflyand others.At times, Moments has passed well-known apps like Flickr, Giphy, YouTube Capture, and others.Meanwhile, despite some early press and traction, severalof Facebook CreativeLabs other apps quickly fell off the radar. Some apps like Slingshot and Riff are ranked in the quadruple digits for their category; others are ranked in the hundreds. Only Paper and Groups have legs at all, at #73 (News) and #62 (Social Networking), respectively. Moments has stayed ahead of Paper, and passed Groups on days it gets a push.For a number of reasons, Moments may have a shot at becoming one of Facebooks first internally-built app hits.With this release, Facebook is takingadvantage ofstrong facial recognition technology tied to its identity system, leveraging itsin-house design talent, and then combines that with Facebooks cross-promotional capabilitiesand sizable user base. The app plays to Facebooks social strengths, just like competitor Googles newer Photos app plays to its search capabilities and tech prowess, the latter which it uses to automate the building animations and galleries.Of course, if Facebook stops promoting Moments, we could see declines related to thesemi-forced downloads Facebook hadbeen hoisting on its larger user base through Facebooks notifications and Messenger. That would indicate Momentsgrowth was more the result of promotional efforts, and less related toviral adoption, or organic sharing. Time will tell whats true, but for now, Facebook Moments is an app to watch.