There are many visions of what our hyper-connectedfuture mightlook like. Were packaged countless variants on the shiny-techie-future vision theme every day as marketing departments lay it on thick to tryto put gloss on their latest product and restless grease on the wheelsofconsumption.Thing is, these tales of shiny futures are not really that interesting. Given they are artless fictions. Whats far more interesting is how technology is being applied in the here and now  and how its already interacting with and impactingsocial structures. And if you look at those tell-tale signs then sure its possible to extrapolatesome possible futuressome of whichreally arent very pretty at all.Technology replacing humansis one recurrent theme. We can argue about how many jobs are being destroyed by technology. But thats sort of missing the point. Given that technology is a tool that peoplecan apply in various ways,the number and type of human jobs that get replaced will, at the end of the day, be determined by us, not by the technology.Or, more likely, by the companies that apply technology at scale. Look, for example, at supermarkets and big box retailers replacing multiple (human) check out operators with ranksofself-service machines  with perhaps onesolitary human overseer standing silently off to the side.Or Uber recruiting an entire university robotics department to try to accelerate the development ofdriverless cars. Because robots cant protest a dwindling revenue share. Because robotsdont get a revenue share.But whowants to live in a futurewhere every physical shop (if indeed there are any in such atechnology-maximized scenario) is aself-service warehouse where theatomsin the drear air stir only tosynthesizedthank-yous spat from money-harvesting machines, suffixed bythe rustle of adeparting plastic bag  attached to another silent human.Sure, if all you think about are profit margins you wont find any value in theseasonal tapestry of face-to-face human communication. Or the variable elbow grease of human labour. Youll seek to edit it out as an unpredictable inefficiency. But what happens to society when we trade a personfora button press? Ora human being for a deliverydrone?What happens when we start to view everyinteraction as merely a quantifiablestring of dollar signs  allowingless human to mean the same aslower cost?We as individualsand as a society  are also reduced. Reduced in character, colour, culture, communication, cohesion. Theres no shortage of collateraldamageif you extrapolate a tech-fueled future that thinks only of maximizing profit margins. So why can we so easily glimpse that possible future? Indeed, why do we keep sketching such dystopic scenarios? Why do we seem convinced technology has to capture andcontrol and doeverything  as if we humans are powerless to choose how to use our own tools?As better minds than minehave pointed out, humans are, at base, social creatures, yet we are prone to falling for trivial tricks that would sell us a substitute for thesocial connection we generallycrave. Emollient services that profferatech-sanitized workaround for our raw, emotionally fretted edges.So sure its not alwayscompanies hammering the shiny technology wedge between genuine human interactions. Undoubtedly,we do this to ourselves too.Albeit companies know our weaknesses, and seek to exploit them. They always have. Technology just makes that kind ofexploitationinsanelyscalable.Perhaps mass surveillance  a tech-powereddystopia we are living through right here, right now  is not just a massive trampling of our human rights, but also a giant red flag reminding humanityof the importance of moderating our consumptive impulses.Because as well as being social creatures, we are all-too-easyaddicts. We cant get enough of a good thing. We dont always know when to stop. Sometimes we need to makeourselves really, really sick before we can be compelledto change our ways. If we learn theres a button we can push to get a treat, well push it and push it and push it. And keep pushing it. Our present tense world-view canbe made to shrink to fit abutton press. Orasocial network.Point is, a little technology is amazing. But all technology, all the time is dystopia.And strutting and fretting our entirelives digitally isa reduction of the rich possibilities of life beyond the algorithm. Even as the increasingly comprehensive digital footprints we generatearealso, clearly, a way too tempting repositoryfor governments andcompanies to ignore  and so they do the opposite: lift, store and manipulate thesubstanceof our digital livesatwill.Maybethe appropriateresponse to being systematicallydehumanized by vast technology-powered data-harvesting infrastructures is to acta little more human, be a littlelesstech obsessed.You know  buy a book from a second-hand bookshop. Pay with cash. Walk down an unfamiliar street. Order a drink in a place youdidnt find beforehand on Foursquare. Talk to a stranger you didnt match with on Tinder.Leave your phone in your pocket  or better still, at home. Unfold a piece ofpaper and breathe.Virtual reality? It can never be a fraction as fascinating as real, lived, actual reality where chaotic possibility is threaded through every undesigned moment  if only you take the time to lift your eyes off the screenand look around you.And sure, the GooglesAlphabetsand Amazons will promise toengineer serendipity. Or saythey can transmute our collective behaviorsinto a predictive extrapolation theyll claimresembles telepathy  in a bid to deliver you the thing youre after before you even thought to want it. Of course they will. Because they really want to be able to do this. Its the holy grail of commerce.If they can digitally steer or synthesize aproto human intention before its become a fully formed thought chain-linked toa guaranteed transaction they get to win the money-makersnever-ending jackpot and laugh all the way to the bank  untilthe very last neon light winks out in the Nevada desert.More realistically the giant data miners of our lives will make algorithms that segment collective human behavior into generalized buckets and apply these stencils overindividuals, blurring ourdetail in the process. Because you cant abstract infinite variety. You cant contain multitudes. You cant synthesize all the shifting shades that will ever be perceived.And so the strategy of control attemptsto use ubiquitous technology to disrupt our attention soweforget to think for ourselves.Undesigned existence is thereal magic. Andengineered serendipity isboth an oxymoron and a dictatorship of the dreary; a notion created by a confederation of bottom-line bores who have somehow attainedfar more social control than their pedestrian focus on profit margins should everhave afforded them.If all youre allowed to be or do or know is whatspredetermined by aggregated behavioral patterns parsed byalgorithms you might as well be living in a medieval monastery  just without the vaulted ceiling of mystery that exaltedsuch aprior pre-defined existence.Remember: the algorithm is not God. Its never been omniscient, and it never will be. The algorithm is just a tool foroptimization. Andmost of the time its theslave ofcommerce.Sure, youcan think of technologyas a lidless eye  given how it tendsto watch and record whatwe do. But ceaselesssurveillance is not a synonym forsupernatural. Its technologyapplied toconstrain and reduce; to turnthecreative chaosof possibility into apredictable pipeline that canbe controlled or monetized.If you think that sounds like magic you probably need to recalibrate your innerlens.So really, as we use and shape technology tools and services, we the people making the tech and buying the tech and living with the tech need to sharpen our focus on whats really important. And whats really true. A shiny, hyper-connected future is meaningless if we dont actually want to livein it. If we as individuals threaded withinthe fabric ofsociety end up feeling less connected to each other, more dehumanized by the tools we usethen why are we buying into the marketing fiction?Whats in it for us? Whats in it for society as a cohesive whole?The fiction of the shiny sci-fi future is repackaged and sold to us again and again to try to herd us towards some nearterm commercial goal. But whats the actual, lived reality of these marketingfictions? Fewer humanjobs and more ephemeralemployment that rebrandssocial precariousness as choice and flexibility?Feweractualhuman interactionsand more synthesized, packaged substitutes that feed off the sense ofisolation and dissatisfaction their (over)usecultivates?Does that sound like a fairtrade? In exchange for granting a free pass toan army ofdigital middlemento mediate more and more aspects of our lives viatheir shiny layers weget what  mild diversionand marginal convenience?Cat GIFs on Facebook and pizza dropping from the sky at the push of a drone-summoning button? Are we really soeasilyinfantalized? Canour inner livesbe so cheaplybought?Thing is, it doesnt have to be technology orpeople. Its possible to imagine a futurewheretechnology works FOR people. Where unchecked software is not eating the world but is applied selectively, by societies, as a tool to helptightenand reinforcethe jointed scaffolding of real-worldcommunities. To help buildactual connections, not devalue real-world social structures to try to replace them with mediated digital alternatives.But that means recognizing when itsnecessary to moderate the trajectoryof a platform, say, orshapealgorithmicapplications with people-focused regulation to ensure valuable social structures arent ripped out or ripped apart by the indifferentinterests ofcorporate accountancy. And  as individual users of technology recognizing when its time to leave your phone alone for a bit and talk to the people around you.If we can find the right balancebetween technology and society, its possibleto imagine many good things beingcreated by humans using ever more sophisticated tools. But achieving that balance requires continuous sweating toil to define societysred lines  and the discipline not to be distracted or swayed by the superficial sheen of shiny things.Hard work for sure, but the kind of socially engaged activitythat yieldsgenuinely satisfyingrewards  and benefitsthe many, not the few.