A week ago yesterday, we told youthat longtime Sequoia partner Michael Goguen had been slapped with a stomach-turning complaint. At its crux, it accused him of breaching an agreement hed made to pay $40 million to a woman hed known for years. Apparently, after paying her $10 million, Goguen concluded thathe was within his rights to stop writing her checks. The woman then hired a lawyer.Whether the case ever goes to trial is nowbeside the point for Goguen, whohasenjoyed a lucrative career as a venture capitalist and who, fairly or unfairly, will now be publicly associated with that complaint and the person who filed it, despite his strongly worded counter-complaint.Fairly or unfairly, it also does real damage to Sequoia Capital.Entrepreneurs arent the immediate issue. It would take a lot more than this bizarre situation for mostfounders to be deterred from accepting a check from Sequoia, whose imprimatur can make everything easier, from assembling a team, to attracting press, to, later, luring the right investment bankers.That Goguen isno longer a partner of Sequoia certainly minimizes the damage. (A spokesman didnt elaborate when explaining to us last week why Sequoia decided Goguensdeparture was the appropriate course of action. But wesuspect hisoriginal deal with his accuser was made without the firms knowledge, which would be a major no-no. That kind of financial agreement would bematerial information to a partnership.)A muchbigger problemfor Sequoia will be recruiting female investing partnerssomething that longtime Sequoia investor Michael Moritz has said interests the firm (and should).You may recall his uncomfortable interview back in December with Bloombergs Emily Chang, when he told her that Sequoia looks very hard [for female recruits] . . . We just hired a young woman from Stanford who is every bit as good as her peers and if there are more like her, well hire them. Moritz continued, What were not prepared to do is to lower our standards.That standards comment immediately came back to bite Sequoia in the behind,and in light of whats happening with Goguen, Moritz surely regrets it more than ever.But nomatter his intent, the firm will likelyhave even fewer choices now. It was already hard to imagine many top female operators whod leap at the chance to work at analmost exclusively maleventure firm. A situation like Goguens can only hurt its odds of drawing in smart women.I dont know anything about Sequoias internal dynamics.But partnerships are very small, intimate entities, in which people spend a lot of time socializing amongst themselves. Thatone ofSequoiaspartners had what now seems like a highly peculiar relationship with women would certainly raise a red flag for me, particularly following Moritzs comments.Maybe Sequoia feels like it did enough by distancing itself from Goguen. But for its own sake, the firm would be smart to do more. Adetailedexplanationof what itknew about Goguensbehaviorwould help, as would Sequoias historyof working with female entrepreneurs and female associates. It would alsobe niceto know whether and how Sequoiaplans to help improve the gender issuemore broadlyin SiliconValley.As an eminent venture capital firm, ithas a responsibility to do something.Better sooner than later, too.