
Josh Tolan is the CEO of Spark HireNew technologies continue to change every facet of the way we do business, including how we identify, recruit and hire the best people. Thanks to the latesttech innovations, todaysrecruitingandhiring processhas developed far beyond the traditional job boards and sit-down interviews of yesterday.The onslaught of social media has made it easier to identify and connect with potential candidates. (If you say you dont check job candidates out on social media, youre lying.) Smartphones made it easy to recruit and interview on the go. Popular video chat platforms paved the way for video interviews.In short, todays hiring process has evolved to include employers, hiring managers, recruiters and job candidates  with tech as the middleman.As technology advances, so will the way we interview and hire employees. Which brings us to the future of job interviews. Lets take a look at how some of todays emerging technologies will shape tomorrows job interview.The skills gap is growing. It might be yesterdays news, but it still affects todays hiring process. In fact, ManpowerGroups ninth annualTalent Shortage Surveyrevealed that nearly 40 percent of employers globally reported having difficulty filling jobs  the highest percentage in seven years. As it becomes harder to find qualified candidates, employers will need to step up their hiring game.Today, its predictive analytics. Tomorrow, itll be voice analytics.Anew studyby the University of Chicago Booth School of Business discovered that people found job candidates more appealing when they heard their pitch versus when they read it  even though it was the same pitch.In addition to communicating the contents of ones mind, like specific thoughts and beliefs, a persons speech conveys their fundamental capacity to think  the capacity for reasoning, thoughtfulness, and intellect, said Chicago Booth professor NicholasEpley.As a result, companies are already beginning to develop various apps, software, and algorithms designed to screen job candidates and evaluate their potential fit for a role or company based on their voice.One such company isJobaline,whichuses voice profiling to gauge a persons likeability and charm. Beyond VerbalsMoodieappperforms much in the same way by analyzing voice to determine emotion.While these voice profiling tools are still in an experimental stage when it comes to hiring, they could be largely beneficial for customer service or sales roles where an employees voice takes center stage.The Internet of Things (IoT) is a phrase thats been reverberating throughout the tech world as of late. Fromwearablestosmart carstoself-sufficient appliances, anything that can be connected, will be connected. In fact, according toGartner, there will be nearly 26 billion IoT devices by 2020.So what impact will the Internet of Things have on the future of recruiting and hiring? For starters, more IoT devices means more data and analytics when it comes to identifying potential job candidates. And more data and analytics means a more effective recruiting and hiring process that leads to better hires.Not to mention, it could also keep you from being late to meet job prospects  or adjust your schedule, as ManiZarrehparvar, president of mobility technology firm Visage Mobile,shared:Im imagining I walk out of my front door with my device. My device locks the door behind me. It starts my car. It pays for my coffee at Starbucks. It knows that when I get in my car and I say Im going to Starbucks, it has my order waiting for me when I get there. It recognizes that Im late for a meeting and changes my meeting because it knows  by my location  that Im not going to be at the office in time to be there for my video conference meeting and it changes it to a voice call.The advancement of video technology in the interview process has allowed us to visually connect with job candidates  whenever, wherever. Withsix in 10 hiring managersconducting job interviews via video, video interviews are on the rise. But how much further can we go with virtual interaction, when it comes to tomorrows job interview?Star Wars fans, rejoice:3D holographic technology is here. While its not yet available to consumers, its no longer just the stuff of science fiction. And it wont be long before 3D holographic technology will allow interviewers to interact with 3D holographic projections of candidates.In fact, its already being done. The infamous founder ofWikiLeaks, Julian Assange, used hologram technology toappear for an interviewat The Nantucket Project just last year. This month, world-renowned physicist and cosmologist Stephen Hawkingmade a virtual appearanceat the Sydney Opera House to give a lecture.While we may be a ways away from interviewing job candidates via holographic projections, Star Wars 3D hologram technology is well on its way to becoming a future reality.