Have you heard about the Tinder Meltdown (TM)?Some even called it a stunt.In case you havent, heres the quick and dirty:a piece appeared on Vanity Fair that Tinderdidnt like. And it reacted. On Twitter. A lot.It's disappointing that @VanityFair thought that the tiny number of people you found for your article represent our entire global userbase  Tinder (@Tinder) August 11, 2015I asked a few communications industry professionals how they thought Tinder wasgoing to back its way out of this 30 tweet tirade. Some thought theyd blame a social media person. Nah, thats weak. Some thought theyd claim they were hacked. Nah.Ultimately, they were going to have to own up to this one, but would they wiggle around without accepting actual fault?Heres a joke sample statement that I wrote in our TechCrunch back channel last night:What happened this evening was very unbecoming. While we are a passionate group, its never OK to let out your frustration in a non constructive way. Wed like to sincerely apologize to XXXX and XXX and look forward to moving forward in our mission to make the world hump.Sadly, its not far off from the real one that Tinder gave Wired today:We have a passionate team that truly believes in Tinder. While reading a recent Vanity Fair article about todays dating culture, we were saddened to see that the article didnt touch upon the positive experiences that the majority of our users encounter daily. Our intention was to highlight the many statistics and amazing stories that are sometimes left unpublished, and, in doing so, we overreacted.Predictable, eh? More than likely, a group of folks sat around a table and thought about potential outcomes based on what went down last night. Turns out the tactic chosen was hoping that blaming passion and believing in Tinder would somehow be a fair excuse for acting like a dipshit in public.Its not.Theres no right or wrong thing to do during or after a situation like this, but the last thing you want to do is make it worse. Of course, Tinder would have probably rather not had that happen. It can hide behind passion, but the truth is that the company came off as hot headed and not one that a journalist would care to cover at this point. In fact, the journalists article wasnt even about Tinder, just trends that involved Tinder.The company should have at least directly apologized to the writer, Nancy Jo Sales, and perhaps offered to chat with her on the phone if shed like and let her tell everyone whatTinder said during the call. They didnt and the jokes will likely continue.We appreciate communications folks who, if they have an issue with something we wrote, come directly to us to chat about it. Not that itll change what we wrote, but itll clear the air and most certainly save you from embarrassing yourself. Immensely.Something something swipe left on your statement, Tinder something.PS: Check your email, Tinder, wed like to know more about these users in North Korea and China:Talk to our many users in China and North Korea who find a way to meet people on Tinder even though Facebook is banned. Tinder (@Tinder) August 11, 2015And this canned response wont do: We have users in all 196 countries, including China and North Korea.We have *actual* questions.