
Ken Seddon is the CEO of LOT Network, a nonprofit trade association committed to protecting its members from patent troll litigation.Thetrollsof mythologycanbe conquered with lightning, church bells or heroic cunning, but shuttingdown todayspatenttrollsrequires a more comprehensive approach.Patenttrolls, more formally known as Patent Assertion Entities (PAEs), pose a major threat to American businesses. A studypublished by the Boston University School of Lawrevealed that more thansix times as manypatentlawsuits are filed today as in 1980. More than10,000 companies have been suedat least once by a PAE, and litigation by PAEs using acquired patents is increasing at an alarming rate  PAEs are now responsible for more than 84 percent ofpatentlitigation in the U.S. Scared yet?Businesses in all sectors are vulnerable, but today, high-techcompanies face a particularly high risk. Why? Becausepatenttrollsare lazy. They want to do the least amount of work and spend the least amount of money to generate as much profit as possible from the settlements. Taking a suit to trial is extremely expensive, with thecost of defense ranging from $500,000to upwards of $5 million. To avoid these costs, more than87 percent of defendants settle before trial, even if the infringement claim has no merit, and despite the fact that less than 1 percent of all defendants in PAE suits are found guilty.Five years ago,trollsfavored fluffy business method patents that were granted during the dot-com boom, when companies eagerly filed patents for basic things you could do with the Internet, like sell books, hyperlink content or publish online press releases. Then theAmerican Invents Act, apatentreform bill, passed in 2014 and introducedCovered Business Method Review (CBM),which means that if a company gets sued by a vague business methodpatent, theycaninitiate a review with thePatentOffice to see if that patentshould exist at all.Many of these business method patents re-examined by the PatentOfficeend up getting revoked, and, as a result, going after them is no longer as lucrative. This ledtrollsto go on a high-techpatent-buying binge, because these patents have a better chance of surviving review. Last year, PAEs scooped upmore than6,000 high-techpatents, most of whichinvolved software.The combination of increasing PAE litigation and high-techpatenttargeting means every techcompany is at risk and needs to take meaningfulstepsto protect their business. Here arethreeeasystepsbusinessescan take toshutdownpatenttrolls.Step one is to notsell topatenttrolls. More than 80 percent of patents litigated by PAEs are acquired from operating companies, and nearly 1,000 companies have transferred patents directly to PAEs in recent years. In the hands oftrolls, these patents become weapons that theycanuse to wage an attack. Decreasing the number of patents thattrollscanget their hands on weakens them by drying up their feed lines.Companies relinquish patents totrollsfor a number of reasons, but it usually boilsdownto money.Patent portfolios are extremely expensive to maintain,so when a company needs money, selling patents to a PAEcanseem like a quick andeasyway to boost cash flow and cutdownon expenses. However, patents are not worth today what they were five years ago. There was a period of time when companies could get $500,000 to a million dollars perpatent, but that was the high watermark, and the average selling price of a patenthas dropped to around $40,000.The benefits of selling apatentno longer justify the cost, because therecanbe serious consequences. To start, offloading patents on the open marketcandamage a companys reputation, as well as its relationships with customers, partners, vendors and suppliers who are now at greater risk of getting sued. Selling apatent is essentially releasing a weapon into the wild, and any money gained from the sale canquickly be lost in mistrust and ill-will. The smarter, more responsible and, ultimately, more lucrative approach is to find other monetization models, like licensing.As mentioned above, patents are extremely expensive animals to keep, and a large corporation with a large stable of patentscanspend tens of millions of dollars a year on maintenance fees and taxes. If a company needs to shed some patents, it is important to shed them in a responsible way by selling to legitimate companies, rather than putting them on the open market and/or selling to a troll.There are a number of nonprofit community-based organizations out there that help keep patents away fromtrolls, including my own.In the war againstpatenttrolls, the many are stronger than the few. PAEs look for the highest return on the least amount of work, and they wont waste their time going after companies that are part of an anti-troll community and thus backed by a proactive network of supporters. Moreover, PAEs will never be defeated if battles are fought individually, on a reactive case-by-case basis. Victory requires private sector businesses to cooperate and collaborate toward the common goal of vanquishingtrolls.Patenttrollswould not be able to do what they do if companies fought back, because their survival is predicated on settlements. Remember: 99 times out of a hundred, PAEs do not succeed at trial, in which case, they neither win money nor keep thepatent. Iftrollsperceive a company as weak and vulnerable, and see that it does not or will not fight back, that company is more likely to become a target for lawsuits  a prime piece of prey.Conversely,patenttrollswill not want to waste their resources going head-to-head with a warrior.Take Lee Cheng at Newegg, a lawyer who has earned a fierce reputation for fightingpatentassertion claims to the death in court, and who is willing to do just about anything to win.Trollsdo not want to mess with him and his company.When faced with apatentassertion,techcompaniescanshuttrollsdowninstead of coughing up the money in a settlement by challenging the validity of apatentin a process called IPR. IPRcanbe expensive, but there are organizations out there to help.Unifiedpartners large companies, SMEs and startups to proactively deter PAE activity by attacking the patents thattrollsown through IPR.Joining a community is also a way to gather assistance when fighting back, because they facilitate the sharing of expertise and resources when a member is faced with a suit. Fellow community members may have experts who have dealt with PAE assertions andcanassist board members and senior management at other companies, informing themabout the riskspatenttrollspresent, as well as the means of managing them. Again, we see that private sector cooperation is a highly impactful way to reduce the threat of PAEs, and an essential part of a multi-pronged, offensive approach.Simply put,patenttrollsare hurting innovation. For far too long, PAEs have been allowed to run roughshod over legitimate businesses, which have had few options for recourse or defense. While legislation (and lobbying for it) is necessary for curbing PAE activity, companiescant sit on their laurels and wait for Congressional bills to get passed. There arestepsevery businesscantake to protect themselves and the tech/innovation ecosystem as a whole. Its time to break out those bolts of lightning.