Editors note:Eric Paleyis a Managing partner atFounder Collective, a seed-stage venture capital fund that has invested in Uber, BuzzFeed and MakerBot.Conventional wisdom is that startups are bought, not sold. The logic follows that no matter how much an entrepreneur wants tosellacompany, there needs to be an eagerbuyerand no amount of seller desire can manufacture one. Some people interpret this wisdom to mean that they should spend no time getting to know buyers and when a largecompanyis ready to buy their startup, theyll come knocking.I understand this advice, but had very different experience selling Brontes Technologies, acompanyI co-founded with Micah Rosenbloom that brought mass-customization to the dental industry. The process startedwithoutabuyerand ended with five.We were starting the process of raising our Series B financing with a beta product and no revenues. Micah and I believed that we had a game-changing technology for dentists, but that the venture capital community would undervalue it, because we didnt fit into an easily defined category, like enterprise software. No matter how much we tried to convince VCs that enabling mass customization in dentistry was a big economic opportunity, even the most excited investors would put a discount on a market that they didnt know well.Micah and I decided to seek out strategic financing for two reasons. First, we thought a strategic investor could help financial investors understand the potential value of the business. Second, I commented to Micah, and truly believed, that if only we could get someone to fire a shot, there would be a war to buy thecompany.We had no specific intention tosellthecompanyat that moment, but we saw eager acquirers as offering thecompanymeaningful optionality on valuation, and we wanted to build momentum around potentially being purchased at some point.We had invested time over the previous two years getting to know key industry players. The head of corporate development at each of the companies in dental tech had likely told their CEOs that they were staying close to Brontes and would get a look if we were interested in selling. I think this was one of the most important investments we made when it came to selling thecompany.These industry players knew us reasonably well. We werent calling them cold to offer them an opportunity to invest in acompanythat they never heard of. While we were somewhat coy with senior folks from the industry, we had done a good job creating a positive reputation as a team building something that could be important to the future of the industry.When we approached three industry players to offer an opportunity to invest in our round, all three wanted to pursue diligence and ultimately all three offered to invest. While we werent certain we wanted strategic investment at the start, we became convinced over time that one of the strategiesoffered great upside of having an industry investor with minimal downside.Coming to agreement with that strategic investor to lead our Series B was the shot that started the war. When we told the other two strategic candidates that we decided to take capital from a competitor, they were both very upset.One flew up that same week to meet us for dinner to convince us not to take the deal. He looked me in the eye and said what can we do to get you to walk away from the other deal and take money from us. We can definitely beat anyone on valuation.I responded It isnt about valuation. We are afraid that a strategic investment from you could hurt our opportunities to work with others in the future and are convinced this isnt true of the investor that were accepting. Absent an offer to buy thecompanyfor more money than has ever been paid in this industry for a pre-revenuecompany, I dont really think there are alternative ways for us to work together right now.They made an unprecedented offer to buy thecompanythe following week.Getting to know all the big players in the industry over the past two years was paying off. So we took that first offer and immediately called the other potential buyers to tell them that we had an offer toselland didnt want to do sowithoutspeaking to them first. Wed need to know quickly whether they were serious about buying thecompanyand what they could offer as a price.Two weeks later, we had the war for thecompanythat we imagined. Five buyers bid to purchase Brontes. While 3M wasnt our first choice when the process started, they did an amazing job helping us see the potential to build Brontes on their platform. By the end of the process our management team was unanimously convinced that we wanted to be part of 3M and an offer for $95 million sealed the deal. The price war had driven up the value of thecompanynearly 50 percent from the first bid.Could any of this have happened if no one in the industry thought what we were doing was important and potentially of interest for acquisition? Certainly not. Having said that, the process didnt start with abuyerand it ended with many.Selling a business is a process that is executed with a long view and years of preparation. Its important to get to know buyers well before acompanyis interested in selling and build mutual respect over time.Companies may be bought in a moment, but they are sold over time.