Despite a checkered history with online platforms, developers are always looking for the next big distribution model and a small but growing number is betting Slack, thepopular group-messaging platform,is the way to go.One such startup, Austin-based Howdy, may be the first to nab venture funding based largely on that vision. Specifically, the company, which hasdeveloped acustomizable chat bot application that runs automated tasks for teams on Slack, has just nabbed $1.5 million in venture funding from Bloomberg Beta,True Ventures, a small angel group called Outlier and numerous individual investors.Howdy is first and foremost a time saverfor now, especially when it comes to meetings. For example, after connecting to Slack, the app can simultaneously messageeach member of a team, collecting status updates that can be archived and viewed by everyone. The idea: to keep meetings from turning into one long catch-up sessionand enabling attendees to focus on decision-making instead.(Worth noting: Howdy can also be used tocollect everyones lunch orders. Itsup to the team using it.)Howdy co-founder Ben Brown says the still-in-beta company will eventually charge customers on a monthly basis but that its a little early to know the details. What he says he does know is that providing applications, content and services via messaging applications is becoming a huge opportunity.Hes so bullish, in fact, he says Howdywill look to work with other enterprise messaging services going forward, even though its primarily interested in Slack and its 1 million users(and counting).Thats probably smart. Slack opened itself up to more third-party content in a late-August update. And Brown notes the companyhas been very supportive of what were doing, adding that hes in direct contactwith Slacks platform integrations team on a near day-to-day basis.Still, companies have been known to lose their enthusiasm for certain third-party integrations, sometimes abruptly. (Yes, were talking about much largerFacebook and Twitter.)Asked if hes at all concerned about putting his new startup at the mercy of a bigger platform provider, Brownwho hasco-founded several companies previously, including anearly social network that sold to CNet for $1.2 million in 2006and a software design consultancysays he isnt.Im very positive about working alongside Slack, and I think there will be a hopping market of commercial plug-ins for the platform that will emerge in the next couple of months. We just happen to be one of the first.