After plentiful leaksin the past few weeks, HTC has today confirmed its new flagship smartphone at a press launch in Barcelona, ahead of the Mobile World Congress tradeshow which kicks off tomorrow.The new handset, the HTC One M9, follows last years well-reviewed HTC One M8, and the original HTC One (M7). It will go on sale starting from midMarch inAsia-Pacific.Theres no radical redesign or hugesoftwarechanges in HTCs recipe for the M9. But given how well received the prior devices in the range have been  and HTCs reducedresources as it works towards a turnaround in its business fortunes  its astrategy that makes sense.This flagship isabout a leaner HTC staying the course and tryingto buildmomentum with a pared back portfolio that has room to shine. You wont find any fancy new sensor hardware packed into the One M9. Rather HTC is focusing its efforts on beefing up core performance, and ontweaks to the camera andaudio.We understand your smartphone is a statement of taste and personal style which keeps beautiful design at the forefront of our philosophy, said HTC CEO Peter Chou, announcing the phone on stage, and talking up the dual-tone metal finish.The HTC One M9 is ourthird generation of iconic design. While people say M8 is the most beautiful smartphone on the market we didnt stop there. We challenged ourselves to aim higher. We were so inspired by the premium watch. And we worked so hard the whole year creating this brand new silver and gold finish that has never been in the market before. We really polished this and add this beautiful hairlines, he added.Also today the companytook the wraps off its first wearable  called the Grip  which is a collaboration with fitness gear brand Under Armour. The fitness bandis being initially targeted at the U.S. market.HTC One M9Specs wise, the new HTC flagship smartphone has:DesignHTC is not straying far inits established premium handset look and feel with the M9. In recent years, the One rangesclean, metallic lines have helped it stand outagainst more plastic-y Android rivals. And with metal-clad phones now pushinginto Samsungs and Xiaomis ranges HTC has no reason to change course here.The main aesthetic difference between theM9 and its predecessors is a subtle two-tone effect, with the edges of the new devicepicked out in a different metallic tone than the back. The power button has also been moved from the top to the side.There is also a brushed lines texture effect on the back, contrasting with high polished sides.The metalhas a scratch resistant coating.HTC said it is taking inspiration from high end jewelry, such as luxury watches, for its design choices with the M9.There are three color options for the M9: gold (edges) on silver; gunmetal grey ongrey; and gold on gold. The version picturedin this article is the gold-edged silver device.Although the 5 inch display is the same as the M8s pane HTC has also managed to marginally shrink the footprint of the M9, so its slightly smaller thanthe M8 (below left).Camera upgradeAnother major upgrade is to the camera hardware: theM9 has a beefed up rear lens, with a 20MP lens, toughed withsapphire glass, thatcan record video in 4K. The dual physical lenses of the M8 have also been consolidated into asingle, more square-shaped rear lens, with the depth-based photo post-processing which the M8sdual lens set-up allowed now being achievedentirely with software on the M9 (and its larger single sensor).MeanwhileHTC has moved the main camerathat was on the rear of the M8 tothe front of the M9  touting a better selfie snapping experience, thanks to improvedlow light performance.Other camera tweaks include dynamic exposure improvements which HTC says givesmoredetail in multiple exposure pointsin a single picture.HTCs now trademark front-facing BoomSound speakershavent gone anywhere. But theyve been augmented with the addition ofDolbyAudio  for a much richer, rounder, more surround experience. (The Dolby processing also applies if youre listening via headphones.)Sense 7 bringsmore personalizationThe M9runs the latest version of HTCs Sense Android skin, Sense 7, which includesits Blinkfeed news and social feeds aggregator sittinga swipe away from the homescreen.While Blinkfeed has had the ability to tailorthe content you seetoyour location for a while now, such as pushing nearby restaurant reviews, Sense 7 includes some new contextual elements. So youll also see the apps that are displayed on the M9s homescreen change based on your usage and location.For instance, you might see your traintimetableapp appear when youre near your local railwaystation. Or thecalendar app when youre at work. Users can still override algorithmic customization if they wishto pin certain apps in place, but the idea is to help people get to their apps when they are most useful.Theres also a homescreen folder containingcontextual suggestions for new apps that might be worth checking out, again based on factors such as location, time of day, and alsoother apps youre downloading  somore related content.Another software tweak in Sense 7 isalsofocused on increasing the personalization of the device, with a range of new themes available for download and an option to create your own, based on a photo or image of your choosing. Themes are intended tobleed out across the whole device in a range of ways  changing multiple aspects of the design such as the clock,icons, textures, music and fonts, not just the background image.Another software addition HTC flags upis a newgallery feature which letsuserssynchronize thumbnails of anypicturesthey have stored elsewhere  in Dropbox, Google Drive, Flickr and Facebook  to the phoneto help them locate wherea particular shot is stored.Dot View IIOn the accessories side, HTC is keepingits fun Dot View case in play with the M9. Dot View debuted on the M8 and shows retro-style notifications through a matrix of small holes in a plastic screen cover.As well as notifications, and lockscreen patterns, there are retro games for Dot View, like brick breaker.The company has also now come up with some clear-backed versions of the Dot View case so M9 owners dont have to concealthe devices metallic back.In a briefing with journalists HTC said it now has two strong product lines in the market  referring also to its mid-tier Desire range (which includes a selfie-focused phone, the Desire Eye), and the premium One line up.Critics may complain the M9 lacks any new wow factor. But its a solid smartphone with a premium feeland HTCs trademark thoughtful detailing.