HTC has released unaudited results for its Q4 2014and the Taiwanese mobile maker isreporting a slim netprofit, of $14.7million (NT$0.47 billion), following the slender$19.7 million (NT$0.6 billion)profit it reported for its Q3 back in October.Unaudited revenue for HTCs Q4 stands at$1.5 billion (NT$47.87 billion), up slightlyon the$1.38 billion (NT$41.9 billion) in sales recorded for Q3  which is, according toBloomberg, itsfirst sales growth since Q3 2011. The company iscontinuing to battle to keepits businessin the black in an increasinglycompetitive smartphone market.In October 2013 HTC reported its first quarterly operating loss, bleeding $102 million from its books.After which itslashed operating costsand pledged to push out morecheaper handsets in a bid to chase volume sales. That more mid tier focus appears to have paid off in Q4. The quarters revenuegrowth is a flicker of positivity in what have been multiple gloomy years for the company.Indeed, the big Android-powered smartphone success stories of recent years have come out of China, with the likes of Xiaomi and Lenovo growing marketshare. Even Android kingpin OEM Samsung is having a tougher timeas handset prices aresqueezed afresh.HTC has also careened afterthe selfie bandwagon, putting out phones designed to make it easier to snap the users face, such as the HTC Desire Eyeand the One Mini 2. It evenouted a periscope camera accessory for smartphones, called the Re, last year which is apparently able to snapunderwater selfies. Itfarsounds too leftfieldto garner serious momentum, butyou have to admire HTCsexperimentalchupatzunder pressure. Perhaps the Reis an appropriate visualmetaphor for its business.InOctober Google also threw its long-time Android OEM a bone by getting it to build its Nexus 9 Android tablet an unusual choice of maker for a slate,given HTCs abortive attempts in tablets (it withdrew from making its own brand slatesin 2012).It is of course in Mountain Views interests to keep multiple Android OEMs in play, if possible  although Nexus devices are never huge volume sales generators. Google buying Motorola when it was struggling and subsequently selling it to a rising Lenovo shows some of that ecosystem tending strategy in play.Still,its going to take more than the odd Nexus-shaped bone (not to mention odd-looking periscope accessory) to lift HTCs fortunes onto a firmer footing. Keeping turning a profit and growing sales while keeping operating costs down is HTCs difficult 2015 balancing act.Lets hope they succeed; the smartphone space would certainly be a grayer place without them.