Despite not unboxing anew high endsmartphone at Mobile World Congress this week, embattled mobile maker HTC has told TechCrunchits not ready to admit premium defeat saying it has a new flagship devicecoming soon.Its also hinted itmight consider getting intomobile VRin future presumablyas a step to try to revive interest in its premium smartphones. Earlier this month the company posted a $101 million net loss for Q4 2015, with CFO Chialin Chang admitting sales of itsflagship HTC One M9fell short of expectation last year.Meanwhile, this time last yearthe company took the wraps off of a high end VR headset  called Vive pluspartnership with games publisher Valve to build avirtual reality experiences ecosystem. So it has at least been riding high onrecent plentifulVR hype.A year on from the Vive unveiling, the pair announced pricing for their room-scale VR experience at MWC16. Theheadset, which will goon sale in April, costs $800 (plus the price of a powerful enough PC to drive it).So, as with rival device the Oculus Rift, its not being priced for mainstream adoption  leaving plenty of room for amore budget VR experience, a la Samsungs smartphone-powered Gear VR, should HTC decide it can afford to spread itself a little more thinly.Asked directly about the possibility of the companymaking a phone-powered VR headset, Drew Bamford, corporate VP of HTCs Creative Labs, told TechCrunch: I cant comment on our future roadmap but you can imagine HTC is as design led and innovation led business and of course it would make sense for us to work on more kinds of VR products, and products that unite our phone business and our VR business in ways that make sense.Company chairperson Cher Wang was quoted in The Telegraph last month saying VR is now the main priority for the company, telling the paper:Yes, smartphones are important, but to create a natural extension to other connected devices like wearables and virtual reality is more important.Despite Wang apparently de-emphasizing smatphones by prioritizing VR, Bamford said HTCremains committed to the phone space  and not just to making mid-range devices either (at MWC this week it released a clutch of mid-range handsets, leaving new premium offerings from Samsung and LG to go unchallenged).So have we seen the last flagship device from HTC? No, absolutely not, said Bamford. And in fact you should expect an announcement about our next flagship very soon.We are absolutely committed to making the worlds most desirable, best phone products in both the premium segment, with the One series, the M Series, and in the mid range with the Desire products, he added.And were continuing  one of the reasons Im here this week is were talking to our operator partners about our next generation phone products, and theres all sorts of exciting work going on there. We will have some really cool stuff on the market.Last month HTCalso denied rumors it is looking to spin out itsVR business into a standalone company. Such a move might be premature  given that mass market VR adoption is more likely to come from a $100-priced device like Samsungs Gear VR than a $800+ high end system. So having both a high end VR play and a smartphone business under one roof mightposition HTCto plug into both (nascent) markets.We have multiple priorities. This is a common theme at HTC, addedBamford. Theres always more than one priority. Certainly the phone business is also a priority. And still far and away our biggest business and in fact weve only just started selling the wearables in January. And we have not started the VR product so actually phones is our main business absolutely.Bamford went on to describe the problem of designing how different connected products work together as both really exciting and an opportunity.These days in interaction design some of the most interesting opportunities are how do you make disparate products function as a system, he said.Weve tackled that at a smaller scale with our wearables  with the Healthbox which is a kit of three products that are integrated into a system, united by a software and service back end.And theres an opportunity to do that at a higher level with phones, wearables and VR. Think about how do those product categories work together.