HTC has just dropped the most salient detail for anyone wanting to immerse themselves in the virtual realityexperienceits been cooking up with Valve for the past year: the price.The forthcoming Vive headset will cost $799, the two companiesconfirmed today. So$200 more expensive than the rival Oculus Rift headset.TheVive will initially launch in 24 countries: theUS, the UK, Canada, Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, Ireland, Sweden, Taiwan, China, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.Oculus revealed last monthits VR headset will cost $599. It also said the Riftwouldstart shipping in March (although its more a case of an unknown numberofunits will ship in March, with other pre-orderers bumped to waiting till April for theirs). The retail launch of the Rift is April.Now before you start tweetstorming your rage at HTC-Valve about how much Vive is going to cost  givenOculus was slammed for pricing the Rift at two hundred bucks lesstheres bound to be some unhappy VR fans today the headsetis being bundled with twocontrollers.This is in addition to all the other stuff youll need to power the Vives 360-degree tracking experience (e.g. the two base stations that you position in your room)  and what they dub its room scale exploration  so theyre marketing $800as the complete package. Which is of course a not-so-subtle dig at Oculus, given that the Rift controllers are delayed til the second half of this year,and  crucially  are not included in thatrival $599 price-point.So at this point we dont exactly know how the Vive pricing compares to the Riftas Oculus has not disclosedhow much its controllers are going tocost when they do arrive later this year (but has confirmed Rift buyers will need to shell out more to get their hands on the controllers).The shipdate for the Vive remainsthis coming April  albeit HTC-Valve arenow couching thisas early April, likely aimingto encourage consumers who might be tempted to pick upthe Oculus to hold on a bit for the Vive instead and get a VR headset with two controllersAlso included in the Vive $799 bundle for a limited time are two free games. Details on thosetitles below.Actually were really excited about our price, said HTCs Dan OBrien, VP of VR, planning and management. in a briefing with journalists earlier today, when asked how it would be justifying the Vives $799 price-tag.Because it is the price for the complete system. It is the price for a system with input and controllers. For 360-degree tracking at full room scale. With safety and chaperone. All the things that weve thought about to make it the best possible experience. Thats what that price is for. And we feel really good about it. Its giving that user that one-time, out of box, its all there for you.Were going to continue pounding thatmessage that thisis the complete system, this is the complete package, he added.That said, its not actually the complete package. Because buyers will still need a powerful enough PC to plug into and power Vive VR. Now they might already own such a PC. Or they might need to upgrade/buy a new machine thats capable of powering the Vives VR. But either waythe all in costis higher (also true of Oculus, of course, which needs a gaming PC to power it too). So theres still a little spinning going on here with the talk of a complete package. (Acomplete incomplete package is closer to the reality.)On the PC power requirements for Vive, Valves Chet Faliszek told journalists: We have a recommended spec, because calling it aminimum specs a weird thing because really I could make something run on a 580. Youre probably not going to want to have that kind of experience, youre going to want to have something thats more rich, more full. And so what were saying is 970 on the Nvidia side and a 290 AMD and a mid-range i5.One of the things we do on Steam is we have a hardware survey, he added. If you go take a look there what youll see is theres a lot of people there who can run it right today. Theres another group that all they need is a GPU and theyre good to go. And then theres another group that will need a different system.You talk to the GPU vendors theyll tell you that while overall PC sales may have been down, high end PC sales have been up. And thats continued to be going on. So this will just help accelerate that, he added, talking up the appetite of people to shell out forVR-capable PCs.A lot of its driven around the GPU cardWe have future announcements coming with partners on the GPU side and on the PC side,HTCs OBrien added.Asked about the size of the developer community for Vive at this point, Faliszek told TechCrunch: We dont have an exact number of that. Can we just saylarge? I also dont know the exact number of developers on Steam but I would say theres a large number  even larger number  of developers on Steam.We have got a good relationship with the community of developers.He also side-stepped specifying how many games will be ready to go at the Vives launch  saying the companiesintend to flesh out details about the experiencesthat will be available for Vive at the GDC games developer conference in San Francisco next month.The two games that are being initially bundled with the Vive are: Job Simulator: The 2050 Archives, made by Owlchemy Labs, which offers VR usersthe chance to be transportedto a theoreticalfuture where robots have destroyed all human jobs so they can thentry out simulations of what these human job things used to be like in VRAnd Fantastic Contraption, made by Northway Games & Radial Games, which sounds like a sort of Minecraftian style construction play, where you get to build virtual stuffand see how itoperates in the grassy playground of the game worldOn the limited time caveat  i.e. how long the two games will be freely bundled with a Vive purchase Faliszek again declined to provide specifics now, saying there will be more details coming up.He stressed generally that Valves philosophy with the Vive is to encourage developers who arebuilding VR games/experiences for it to build for otherplatforms too,flagging up a recent announcementof a collaboration with Unity to offer native support for SteamVR in the Unity Platformas anexample of how its looking to reach out broadly to game developers when it comes to Vive.For us I think its important that were not keeping anything on the Valve side in house, just to ourselves. Were always sharing with the community and making sure everybody gives things back, he said.One of the things we did early on is we disengaged Steam from what we call Open VR. And Open VR you can target as your platform and it will actually work with the DK2 which is available publicly as well as a couple of other people are porting it as well now but the idea there is for the headset part of it, you almost have to break it to not have it work. Because what everyones trying to do is the same thing. And where you start to get on differentiating is controllers. And we want to have that one-to-one interaction going on, so whats important to us on the Steam side is well tell every one of our developers publish everywhere, he added.Another interesting tid-bit the two companies revealedtoday was that Vive will include phone services  making use of the Vive headsets built-in microphone. The idea being that users will be able to do things like take and make calls without having to step outside/pull the VR headset off to do so. Viewing and responding to messages, and viewing other elements like notifications and calendar appointments will also be possible within Vive.The Vives operational range is 1.5m to 5m. HTCs OBrien said there are no physical limitations in terms of the kind of space you can use the Vive  with the company even showing marketing material depicting the Vive being used outdoors (with a base station mounted on a pole). Albeit youd need a power source to plug the base stations and your PC into to make that scenario work.Healso noted that the base stations dont need to be cabled together but can be linked wirelessly.They dont have to be mounted at 7ft high at a 45-degree angle, OBrien added. Put them on a book shelf, put them on a desk. Take it out of the box and just set them up and youll have a great experience. We do this for an optimal experience when were doing that [mounting them in very specific positions]. And some people will want to do that in their homes, and mount their base stations and we made that super easy for them to do that as well but its not necessary.