Huawei, the Chinese tech firm that produces smartphones in addition to networking equipment, became the top seller of smartphones in China for the first time during the last quarter.Thats according to data from research firm Canalys, which said that an 81 percent surge in sales year-on-year pushed Huawei past Xiaomi, whichheld the top spot during the previousquarter of business.Canalys made the announcement as a precursor to the release of its full figures for Chinese smartphone sales in Q3 2015, so we dont yet know where Apple, Samsung, or others rank for the three-month period. Crucially, nor do we have sales/marketshare figures. For example, it seems likely that Canalys iscomparingsales-in figures for Huawei (i.e. channel and consumer sales) with sales-out (direct to consumers) for Xiaomi. A fair match, because thats how they both do sales, but worth noting all the same.Despite jumping the gun with a media release devoid of anydetails  its a little worrying to see that analyst firms are increasingly keen to beat each other to making big reveals without providing the workings behind their claims  Canalys believesthatXiaomi, which edged Samsung to become Chinas biggest smartphone seller in 2014, is going through a tricky period on home soil.Xiaomi claimed to have sold 61 million smartphones in China during 2014, but the firm is struggling to reach its goalof 80 million for this year  a figure that was reducedfrom an original targetof 100 million  according to Canalys.The company, which expanded to Latin America this summer, sold nearly 35 million phones during the first half of2015, is under tremendous pressure to keep growing as an international player as it is slowing down in its key home market, said Canalys analystJessie Ding in a statement.Xiaomi, for its part, told TechCrunch that theanalysis could bedown to timing:We just released Redmi Note 2 in mid August and Mi 4c in late September, which means our product lineup went through a transition period in Q3 2015, and we had to ramp up supply gradually to meet demand, a spokespersonsaid.Finally, TechCrunch understands that the gap between Xiaomi and Huaweis figures  according to Canalysresearch  is not huge. So a change in leadership is more a testament to Huaweis progress than any major crisis atXiaomi. (Though lets see if it can hit thatsales target for 2015.)Banned from selling networking gear to the U.S. government last year, Huaweisconsumer electronics business is taking off with a series ofappealingdevices. An Android smartwatch, a smartphone with an Apple-style 3D Touch feature, and the impressive Google Nexus-branded Nexus 6Pare all fruits of its labor.Update: Proof that the gap between Huawei and Xiaomi is a slender one, another analyst firm (IHS) ranked Xiaomi top forthe same quarter as Xiaomi pointed out  perhaps with some satisfaction  on Twitter.According to IHS, Xiaomi is the #1 choice in China with 16.4% market share! Are Mi phones your top choice too? pic.twitter.com/AzoF490VyW Mi (@xiaomi) October 27, 2015