You might not have heard of Hudl, but its how 100,000 sports teams spent $30 million last year to review game tape on mobile. Hudl never raised institutional funding since starting in 2006, but its quietly amassed 1 billion video clips and 3.5 million users across 40 countries. Now its ready totrounce its competitors with a jaw-dropping $72.5 million round of funding led by Accel that will pay for more sales reps so it can sign up as many teams as possible.Youd be forgiven for wondering how Hudl isnt just a niche business. How many teams are really recording game tape to be annotated by coaches and shared with players? Well, since the rise of mobile, the answer is basically all of them, from pros in the NFL and NBA down through college, high school and even little league sports teams.And they pay. Hudl charges around $1,400 a year per high school and college team. That allowed it to build a software-as-a-service business that won $30 million in revenue in 2014.So what exactly does Hudl do? Coaches can use it to either record or upload video tape of games and practices thatcan be viewed by all their players on mobile. That used to be quite difficult, especially when teams were traveling. Coaches can add text, drawing and audio annotations to Hudl videos to teach players what they did right and wrong.Hudl players can then cobble together highlight videos of their play that they can openly host on their Hudl profile for fans to watch, post to social networks, or instantly send to recruiters. Hudl does it all, from football, baseball, and basketball, to tennis, golf, and volleyball, to water skiing, snowboarding, and bobsledding.Hudl CEO David Graff tells me most serious high school athletes now list their Hudl link on their Twitter profile. There have been aslewof success stories of otherwise little-known players who got big offers to play at top schools thanks to Hudl.Fotu Leiato, for example, went to Washingtons SteilacoomHigh School and was looking at D3 football programs when his Hudl highlight video went viral. It showed him utterly destroying opponents while blocking for kick returns. Suddenly Leiato had offers from UCLA and Michigan State before going to play for powerhouse D1 team University Of Oregon.Its these kinds of videos that represent Hudls next big revenue stream. Its now running video pre-roll ads on its most popular clips, and licensing them out to news outlets like ESPN and Bleacher Report.Started by Graff and his University Of Nebraska-Lincoln buddies John Wirtz and Brian Kaiser, Hudl raised an early $3 million seed round from angel investors back around 2008. After starting with just a few teams, itquickly became profitable, leading it to forgo additional funding or much press.Now its grown to 230 employees across four offices, and has made several acquisitions to break into new markets, like UberSense to support individual athletes like runners and weight lifters, andReplayAnalysis to pick up English football premiership clubs.Now with the new $72.5 million from Accel,Nelnet, and former Microsoft Business president Jeff Raikes,it plans to have enough money in the bank to beopportunistic about making acquisitions of competitors, Graff tells me.There are plenty of startups crowding the paint, though, like XOS for the NFL,Sportstec for the NBA, and Krossover for high school teams. With mobile democratizing video recording, all these companies have been in a fierce sales war. But Hudl is bringing in a ringer with Accel and its funding. Graff says Accelstood out in having a track record of companies theyve helped succeed through this scaling stage. Ill spare you the clich on steroids metaphor, but the funding could rapidly accelerate Hudls growth.Down the line, Graff says hed be willing to take Hudl public if it makes sense, or run it as a private business, though he insists its not looking to be acquired. Hudl never started as a money-maker anyways. Graff concludes, My two biggest areas of passion are sports and technology. I dont think I could find a better fit.