Hulus streaming service was already available on nearly all major platforms, including desktop, mobile, tablet, gaming consoles and other TV-connected devices. However, it was lacking support for one major computing platform: Windows 10. That changes today, as Microsoft and Hulu announce a new version of Hulu application, which includes Windows 10 specific features like Live Tiles and universal voice search via Cortana integration, for example.Before today, Microsoft only had a Windows 8 version of the Hulu app available  this new appis meant to be a better alternative for those who have upgraded to the latestOS.In the Windows 10 Start Menu, the Hulus support for Live Tiles will give you a preview of whats inside. That is, the tileswill feature still images and those that pan across the tile in order to showcase the content that Hulus app is currently promoting on its masthead. This is typically five featured shows that the service is trying to call attention to.However, according to Ben Smith, Hulus SVP of User Experience, theseLive Tiles will be enhanced in the future to offer an even more personalized experience for end users. For example, they could take into account which shows you watch and which have new episodes, and then show you images related to those items instead.Meanwhile, the other standout Windows 10 feature is the built-in voice search powered by Microsofts virtual assistant, Cortana. Similar to other Cortana integrations in Windows 10 applications  as in Uber, NPR or Netflix  youll need to say Hey Cortana to kick off yourvoice command.For example, you could say Hey CortanaHulu watch Empire. Talking to Cortana is a bit more involved, whencompared with the way that voice assistants work when on dedicated streaming media players, like Apple TV, where you can just dictate whats to be done (e.g. Play episode 3; show me funny movies). If anything, the experience is more like communicating with Amazons voice assistant Alexa on the Echo speaker where you have to call her up by name, then tell her which app needs to be launched.At launch, Cortana can only perform a couple of tasks on Hulu: it helps you search for shows or episodes, and it can play a show for you. Here, the app is smart, too, as it will resume the show or series where you left off. That is, if you were halfway through an episode it will pick up where you had paused it earlier, and if you were working your way through a series, it will play the next one in line.This is not the first Hulu app to have some sort of voice integration  the company already has an Apple TV app as well, but Smith says its too early to talk about how much consumers are using voice when interacting with a service like Hulus.Were looking at how users interact with content and voice, he says. For us  and I think this is true of everyone investing in voice  its a long-term play. Its not about success in the short-termits about understanding what in the eyes of the user will be successful, Smith explains.Also of note: thenew Windows 10 application also has a different look-and-feel from the older Windows 8 app, Smith notes. On Windows 10, Hulus user interfacehas been brought completely in-line withhow it appears on other platforms for a more consistent experience between devices.As a Universal Windows 10 application, Hulus app will work any supported device, including PC, tablet or phone. The app is available for download from the Windows Store this morning, and will include a free trial for new users.