A number of startup studios are in the midst of a years-long experiment, providing back-end assistance, office space and mentoring to talented, ambitious people in order to create astartup with them, often based around their expertise.Betaworks was the first totry it, opening its doors in New York roughlynine years ago. Others, includingExpa, a San Francisco-based firm with an office in New York;Science, based in L.A.; and Chicago-basedRoniin are among manynewer models, each with their own twist.Human Ventures, which opened its doors in New York roughly a year ago, thinks it has struck on a model that can work, too.The outfit was founded by entrepreneur Joe Marchese, whod sold his adtech company to 21st Century Fox for $200 million in late 2014. But Marchese is just the largest among a group of mostly New York-based angel investorswho are investors in Human Ventures. Indeed, thenow six-person firm, which has raised an undisclosed amount of money,is largely run byCEO Heather Hartnettand Megan OConnor, who joined the firm last May as its chief growth officer.They arent longtimestartup veterans.Hartnett ran business development at theventure firm City Light Capital and, before that, worked in philanthropy, including at the David Lynch Foundation. OConnor also worked previously in nonprofits,includingasa development director at both Pencils of Promise and Goods for Good.That theyre comparative outsiders is kind of the point of Human Ventures, though, which is looking to seizeon peoples skills in a way that puts them on an entirely new, and hopefully more fruitful, career path.Harnett and OConnor areexpert at fundraising and networking, for example, which a recentdinnerin San Francisco helped to underscore.Held atone of the cityssmallest (and therefore, hippest) restaurants, two popularVCs rubbed elbows literallywith four product leads from topInternet companies, along with several rising-star founders, an angel investor, a reporter, and OConnor, who helped organize the evening.Theevents are a regular occurrence, suggests OConnor, who says Human Ventures often organizes intimate gatherings, including on behalf of its investors.Suchrelationships will be central to Human Venturess success.As Harnett sees it, New York is a very different ecosystem than San Francisco, wherefar fewer people imagine themselves as entrepreneurs, even in a day and age when founders are so widely celebrated.People whove worked in large companies and who want to work in really early-stage companies need help in bridging the gap, Hartnett says. Theymight not feel comfortable making that leap on their own despite their industryexpertise or being really greatat product.Meanwhile, she says, Human Ventures promises them access to its human network, which weve been developing for a long time. It enables them to help entrepreneurs get started really fast, as well as provide them with strategic relationships to help them fill in the gaps.Human Ventures is clearly still evolving. Thought its involved with six startups, it has launched just three at its Union Square offices and alas, theyre all instealth mode. (One, an app to help freelancers get paid, sounds particularly interesting.)The others include Reserve, a digital concierge service that Marchese had invested in previously. (Part of his stake wastransferred to Human Ventures whenhe founded it.) Human Ventures alsoholds a stake inPicture Motion, a marketing and advocacy firm for issue-driven films that predates Human Ventures but with which its working to develop digitalproducts. Human Ventures also helped put together the founding team ofCurrent.com, a new payments platform, with fellow startup studioExpa. (Current is currently located at Expas offices.)All of its startups democratize access topremium experiences in some way, shape or form, says OConnor, adding thathalf were started by first-time entrepreneurs.As for what Human Ventures asks in return from those companies it helps build from the ground up,OConnor says its ownership stake canrange from 10 percent to just under 50 percent, depending on its level of involvement. We dont want a conveyor belt formula, she says. We do want founders coming in who will own the majority of their business.If Human Ventures can get a bigger bite later on, thatdbe okay, too.Sounding very much like the company builder and investor she has become, Hartnett tells us: Right now, wereinvesting off ourbalance sheet to fund ourcompanies, but thenear-term goal is to raise a fund andkeep [our pro rata]stake in them asthey grow. The platform was createdto help companies, but [our] value later [will be]financial.Photo courtesy of Human Ventures. Left to right, Hartnett and OConnor