Make way for another wearable. Launching sign-ups for itsalpha program on stage today, hereat TechCrunch Disrupt SF, is a startup calledHumon which is buildinga real-time lactic acid threshold monitor designed for endurance athletes to help them tailor training totheir personal limits.Two of the co-founders behind Humon met at MIT and MIT Sloan, wherethe team has also this yearbeen through a summer accelerator program  taking ina $20,000 equity-free grant from MIT to help withproduct development. Theyve otherwise been bootstrapping development thus far.So what exactly is Humon? its a wearable, targeted atendurance athletes such asmarathon runners, whichattaches to the working muscle  so its worn on the quad with a strap around the leg to holdit in place  where it monitors how oxygenated the runners blood is by shining a light into the skin and analyzing changes.Weve been through six iterations of our prototype, says co-founder Alessandro Babini, discussing the current stage of development. We have something thats completely wearable, that measures the way your muscles use oxygen in real time so completely optically  real-time, no blood. Thats something you cannot do today. And now were feeding this data through our algorithms to identify lactic acid threshold.The lactic acid threshold refers to the point when levels of lactate created in the body during exercise step up significantly, rising faster than the body is able to clear. Athletes typically try to train within their lactic acid threshold  to avoid the risk of exhausting themselves by overtraining. But the threshold can shift, depending on their level of fitness, so knowing how hard they can train at a given point can be difficult to judge.We give the recommendation to the athletes so you can get to, scientifically, the maximum possible performance your body can sustain, saysBabini of the products aim.When you reach a certain level [of exercise] lactic acid starts accumulating in your blood And we map the evolution of the threshold also so we remove the risk of hitting the wall which is one of their biggest fears.The wearable uses an optical sensor to analyze changes to thecolor of the blood in the leg which are representative of how oxygenated the blood is  and from that the team infers lactic acid levels. Wecan infer from that exactly what kind of change in that optical properties is actually due to the change in color of the blood within the muscle. And so from that we know exactly how much oxygen is being used in your muscle, he says.Lactic acid is created as a result of exercising with this continued oxygen deficit By kind of bookkeeping this consumption of oxygen over time we can tell how much lactic acid has been accumulating.To be clear, Humons opticalapproach is not capable of determining exact lactic acid concentrations in the athletes blood. Rather its about identifying when an athlete can safely push themselves a bitharder.We are not at a point where we are attempting to determine lactic acid levels in terms of concentration (i.e. mmol/L), adds Babini. We have interviewed upwards of 200 endurance athletes, and the vast majority of them do not value this information, as it still requires them to understand what this values means for them. What is most important to the athletes is that we let them know how hard they are pushing themselves relative to their threshold. This is the information that they need to train.For example, they may perform an interval workouts at 110% of their threshold, or long-sessions at 60% of their threshold. By looking directly at the way the muscle is using oxygen, we believe that we can get an even better insight into the athletes level of effort versus the limits of their body.The idea to focus on a wearable that can identify thelactic acid thresholdcame after the team did market research into multiple wearable markets  and found the clearest demand from athletes.We looked into more than eight different markets  from ICU patients to military, elderly, children, athletes. And when we got to the athletic market, we asked that simple question: what do you need to know about your body right now, that you dont and that would change your life? And every single one of the athletes responded lactic acid, saysBabini.He claims theres currently no way for athletes to measure lactic acid in real-time  saying instead theytypicallytrainon a treadmill and havepinpricks of blood taken several times in order to manually plot a lactic acid curve. So, compared to that cumbersome process,a real-time non-invasive lactic acid measure seems likea step change.That said,Humon is not actually first to market here. BSXInsight crowdfunded an optical lactic acid threshold monitor which isworn on the athletes calf last year. Others have also tried sweat monitoring wearables as a way to quantify lactic acid, so there are other non-invasive approaches out there, although Humon(as youd expect) arguesits tech is superior  claiming it yieldsthe most direct and real-time data. And thataccuracy is better than measurements done through sweat.Asked specifically how Humon compares to BSXInsights wearable, Babini claims its not a like for like product. Rather, he says the latterswearable is designed to give the athlete their lactic acid curve four times a year  and requires additional inputssuch as, heart rate, speed and cadence data to work  instead of givingdaily or real-time feedback, as the team intends with Humon.Athletes want to asolution that they can weardaily duringtraining, outdoor or indoors and that does not need extensive calibration. Weve bought [BSXInsights wearable], tested it, talked to their team and do not think they have a compelling product that solves our target markets problem, he adds.Humons wearable is being designed towork in conjunction with an app, so athletes can view their data in real-time if they run with their phone, or after the race if they dont. Itwill also be ableto sync data with existing smartwatches, such as those made by Garmin. Andhas an internal battery plus memory to store data for syncing later if the athlete runs without a Bluetooth phone or watch.Weight-wise theyre aiming for it to be around 40g or less and about the size of a heart rate monitor, according to Babini. The price-point theyre aiming for is $300, although they are also planninga subscription model for those wanting to pay for extra analytics.Because we measure the way your muscles use oxygen we really measure the true power thats in your muscles, says Babini of the subscription plan. We can learn a lot about how hard your muscles are working. And how well they recover. So that recovery piece is also extremely important  and were thinking of charging the extra subscription to get this information about muscle recovery.How big does Humon reckon the market for such a specialist wearable is? Babini says the extreme or semi-professional endurance athletes segmentis a$900 million market in the U.S.  and is expected to grow extremely fast over the next three years.The teams longer termgoal is to broaden its targetfrom focusing on the pro segment to move into theamateur fitness space too.If you look at the sports wearable market, last year it was $2 billion, and its expected to grow 3-fold in the next three years, so its one of the fastest growing markets, he adds.The team isnow looking to raise $1 million from investors to fundthe next pushof product development  and ultimately to get the wearable tothe market next year. We think were on track to ship something next summer, so in a year from now, addsBabini.Humons alpha program is initially available to testers in the Boston area, but the team says it willbe opened up countrywide soon.Q&AQ: Whats the pricing?A: It will be priced at around $300  you could compare that to a high end Fitbit because we believe that this tech is a game changer, and initially will be beneficial for what we call the extreme semi pro level but can be extremely useful for the more amateur market. And we want to make it available to everyoneQ: Is that a production ready unit? Or is that something you 3D printed. It looks like you started last month so you made some tremendous engineering progress if thats real.A: We started last month. Thats our incorporation date. This is what our alpha versions will look like. Everything fits inside, you gather some data. This is what you can try out if you sign up on our websiteQ: How many sensors are there?A: Theres a couple of LEDs and detectors in different positions. Thats kind of where our IP lies.Q: What s the volume manufacture price?A: Low volume $65, high volume $20Q: How important is it in terms of where its positioned on you to be accurate?A: If I give it to you and I tell you it needs to be on the thigh. If you put it here, here, here its going to work. The positioning is not very important it I just needs to be in this area. And we get reliable data anywhere on the quad.Q: For your target market what percentage of those people wear heart rate monitors when they train?A: Roughly 50 to 60 per cent. But the point I was saying is that heart rate is the status quo today because its kind of the only indicator you can measure at my hand here and look at my watch. And thats because this measurement was so easy to make that the heart rate became what it is today. But essentially heart rate data is extremely hard to leverage for performance [needs]. Nearly impossible. Because on the same day, the same weather, if you do the same race your heart rate is going to spike at completely different levels depending on how much coffee you had, or how much sleep you had The point being heart rate is extremely difficult to use in order to leverage performance during a rate or a workout.Q: Youre measuring oxygenation of blood? Are you measuring lactic acid somehow? You kept talking about lactic acidA: Were measuring the way your muscles use oxygen and its the use of your muscles in a deficit of oxygen that leads to that production of lactic acid. So thats exactly by bookkeeping that consumption of oxygen we know how much lactic acid youve accumulated. But in addition to that theres a lot of benefits by the fact that were measuring something upstream of the production of lactic acid in that we know that you will accumulate it to an unacceptable level before it happensQ: How much testing can be done to calibrate your approach of this bookkeeping approach youre talking about to the actual measurement of lactic acid in people?A: So every test weve done in house weve correlated with actual invasive blood test measuring lactic acid. This measurement of muscle oxygenation were doing clinical trials in November to completely validate it. But the internal validation we have makes us believe its very accurate.Q: You guys must have scars from all the testing thenA: Yeah we do, actually. Weve had every single finger pricked at least 100 times.Q: What does go to market look like for you guys when youre ready for a major release?A: Were extremely lucky going into this market because if you take runners, triathletes and cyclists its one of the strongest communities in the U.S. They meet up every weekend, all over the country, and so its something also weve seen during our primary market research where we talked to triathletes, runners and cyclists and we would get 5 to 10 referrals every single time.Initially we want to sell direct to these guys, go to them and leverage the word of mouth  hopefully make a device that will be a game-changer for them. Obviously over the longer term its going to go through a strong reseller network to make this available as broadly as possible.Q: A few years down the road are you guys are going to be building a lot of devices? Or are you going to be a single device company? How do you think about yourselves?A: When we started this company we sat down and thought where is the world doing to be in 10 years. And in our mind theres no doubt that well all be wearing some piece of technology that will non-invasively monitor our body parameters, allowing us to be more healthy and in better shape. Now today this is steps, sleep time, pace. When we think of this world in the future it will be stuff like vitamin levels, hormone levels and lactic acid. So this is the vision we have for the company.Q: What is the cost of manufacturing one of these?A: So low level $65, high level $20.Q: Do you have a sense for how well it works in the water? You talked about triathletes and you had a picture of somebody swimming.A: Underwater its not meant to work during the underwater part of the triathlon. It is completely sweat proof. But the data you get underwater is not accurate enough to be leverageable. So were not going to pretend we can make it work underwater.Q: Where you pointed on your thigh is kind of a provocative concept in that I put a lot of other consumer electronics in the same region  have you guys got the game down what this looks like a year out, five years out? Is there anybody else thats a larger, better funded, more established computer electronics designer that might actually compete with you for that sort of position on the thigh? Who could add that to their feature-set?A: We hope to be that better-funded company down the line. But if when youre talking about the big companies today, the Apples and Googles of the world, the reason we think they wont compete with us right now is because theyre going for the more lifestyle market of wearables. We provide essential insights; were not making a piece of jewelry that can give you steps. Or kind of is cool to wear. Were giving this to athletes because they need the data to achieve their goal which is improve their performance and win the race.