Hundreds of iOS applicationshave been pulled out of the App Store, following a report from analytics service SourceDNA, which uncovereda group of applications that wereextracting users personally identifiable information, including email addresses associated with their Apple IDs, devices and peripheral serial numbers, as well asa list of apps installed on their phone. The applications in question had been using an SDK from a Chinese advertising company calledYoumiwhich was accessing this information by way of private APIs, the report found.Nearly allof the developers were located in China so, for now, this appears to be an isolated incident. However, the larger concern herehas to do with how long this activity had been taking place  and what that means in terms of Apples App Store review process, given that it hadnt caught this suspect activity until being alerted to it by a third party.According to SourceDNA, Youmi had apparently been experimenting with what sort of information it could pull from users devices for some time. Nearly two years ago, for example, the firm began obfuscating a call to get the frontmost (currently running) apps name  seemingly a small test of what it could sneak into the App Store. And when it realized that it was able to get this through Apples App Review process, it then began to use the same obfuscation technique to request other data, including the advertising ID.The ad IDcan be accessed for tracking ad clicks, but given thatYoumi was surreptitiously collecting it, the firm may have been using it for other purposes, the report speculates.In addition, SourceDNA noted that while Apple had been locking down private APIs in order to prevent apps from reading the platform serial number in iOS 8, Youmi worked around this by enumerating peripheral devices, like the battery system. It would then send those serial numbers as the hardware identifier.SourceDNA, which helps app developersimprove their code and address security flaws, says it found what Youmi was up to when it was updating its Searchlight product to check for use of private APIs  something that should get developers apps banned from the App Store. Surprisingly, it actually found quite a few apps that had gotten through.In total, SourceDNA came across256 apps with an estimated total of 1 million downloads that had been using a version of the Youmi SDK that wasviolating user privacy. However, the company addsits possible that the developers themselves didnt realize what the SDK was doing, as the user data is uploaded to Youmis server.Whats more concerning here is the implication of SourceDNAs findings. The obfuscation method is fairly simple, the company says, and the apps have been using it for a long period of time. In fact, SourceDNAs founder Nate Lawson tells us this has been going on for about a year-and-a-half.Were concerned other published apps may be using different but related approaches to hide their malicious behavior, a SourceDNA blog post states. Were continuing to add new features to our engine to discover anomalous behavior in app code and find out if this is the case.SourceDNA submitted itsreport to Apple, and Apple replied by offering the company a statement (see below) indicating the apps in question had been banned. Apple says its now working with developers who were using Youmis SDK to get their apps updated to be in compliance with Apples guidelines so they can return to the App Store.Apples statement:Weve identified a group of apps that are using a third-party advertising SDK, developed by Youmi, a mobile advertising provider, that uses private APIs to gather private information, such as user email addresses and device identifiers, and route data to its company server. This is a violation of our security and privacy guidelines. The apps using Youmis SDK have been removed from the App Store and any new apps submitted to the App Store using this SDK will be rejected. We are working closely with developers to help them get updated versions of their apps that are safe for customers and in compliance with our guidelines back in the App Store quickly.