You have a bunch of ingredients in your fridge, and you dont know what you want to cook. You just bought an Amazon Echo, dying to figure out some new things to do with it. Well, you can do both of these with a hack put together at the TechCrunch Disrupt NY Hackathon that does just that.With Hungry Host, you use Alexa to list off a bunch of ingredients that you have in your fridge, and itll dig through its database of recipes to recommend one to cook. It uses Alexas voice-powered interface, so you just rattle them off and get a recipe.Its a project that was thrown together by a team of four engineers and designers in an all-night hackathon that taps into Alexas voice recognition to make the process of finding recipes and cookings completely hands-free.Ive been using a lot of meal kits like Blue Apron. Its just been top of mind because Ive been trying those things, project designer Nisha Garigarn said, adding that the menu cards are annoying, still a piece of paper  I slide it in between my cabinets so I dont have to hold it.Theres a second perk here  Alexa will rattle off the next steps for the recipe as you progress through the process. If youre messing around with raw chicken, you probably dont want to touch a tablet or a phone in order to find the next steps. Hungry Host will list them off and you can jump forward and backwards as you need to.It was interesting figuring out how Alexa worked, Garigarn said. There were certain commands and you had to check how we were speaking  it was just really cool tinkering with it.Its just a hack, to be sure, so theres a good chance that there will be some other in-depth attempts at doing something similar to this. But for someone who cooks a lot, it shows a lot of promise for the platform  and how a hands-free voice interface can work for use cases beyond simply asking for songs.It wasnt a project that was completely premeditated  the team just wanted to experiment with the Alexa API. The team also included two other engineers: Zoltan Szaslas, who focused on the search part of the project, and Adam Chew. The fourth member, Jeneta Hot, said she came to the hackathon to dust off herprogramming skills, which she hadnt used in a couple of years.It seemed like something we could build in the hackathon, and I would use it,Hot said.In terms of next steps, there arent any quite yet. Garigarn works on another startup called Croissant, a membership service that gives users access to co-working spaces around the city. Hot and the rest of the team dont quite have any plans yet, either, but perhaps a curiosity around the project and Alexa might be a signal to the future of what theyre working on.