While a large part of the mobile industry swirls around the streets of Barcelona, IBM isplaying host at its own big InterConnectevent in Las Vegas, where it unveiled a rush of deals that underscoreanother majoraspect of the growth of mobile: the rise of cloud services. Today, IBMunveiled deeper partnershipswith Apple, VMware, GitHub, Bitly and Siemens.Separately, IBM also made some major cloud announcements of its own covering software, Watson APIs and app development by way of a new platform, Bluemix OpenWhisk, as Big Bluecontinues to reach for new-wave revenues to offset declines in its legacy business.Apple: IBM has been collaborating with Apple since 2014 on developing enterprise mobility solutions together, but todays news focuses more on developer tools, specifically Apples programming language Swift and IBMs role in making it accessible in the cloud. This first kicked off in December, when IBM announced its Swift Sandboxafter Apple open sourced Swift, making it the first cloud provider to enable app development in Swift. That Sandbox is now used by over 100,000 developers and over half a million code runs, IBM said today. And now IBM isbringing this together with its larger enterprise play with Apple, withpreview of a Swift runtime and a Swift PackageCatalog to create enterprise apps.By bringing Swift beyond the client to the server, IBM is breaking down barriersbetween front-end and back-end development, which can provide enterprises a single language to buildrich experiences and back-end business logic, the company says. This, IBM continues, increases development speed and provides amore secure toolchain for end-to-end application development.VMware.This deal is a move by IBM to extend into more hybrid cloud services, but also perhaps a move by VMware to extend further in its cloud servicespartnerships with other parties in the wake of other developments, specifically regardingEMC.IBM says that enterprisesthat use VMware technologies  which covers nearly 100% of the Fortune 100  can now run services on 45 IBM Cloud Data Centers globally in a seamless manner. Services covered, IBM says, includepre-configured VMware SDDC environments  VMware vSphere,NSX and Virtual SAN on the IBM Cloud, and IBM will also now develop and market new hybrid cloud services coveringworkload migrations, disaster recovery, capacity expansion and data center consolidation.As with Apple, IBM working with VMware is not entirely new. This partnership, an extension of our 14-year plus relationship with IBM, demonstrates a shared visionthat will help enterprise customers more quickly and easily embrace the hybrid cloud, said Pat Gelsinger, CEO of VMware. However, this was mainly a reseller agreement up to now. Todays newsis the first strategic partnership between VMware and IBM Cloud. This partnership allows both sides to sell and go to market together with a combined solution. On the product side, this partnership allows us to deliver the full stack of management tooling as a service in SoftLayer. Weve had tactical relationships around reselling VMWare software for years. This is a strategic partnership with joint development and go-to-market globally,Damion Heredia, VP of Cloud Platform & Product Management at IBM, told TechCrunch.Other partnerships announced today include a GitHub deal, in which IBM will offer a dedicated GitHub Enterprise experience via its Bluemix cloud platform, laying the groundwork for collaborative coding. And Bitly said that it would be migrating 25 billion links made by way of its link shortening service to IBMs cloud. And finally, Siemens and IBM said they will work together on energy efficiency solutions that will bring together IBMs IoT expertise with Siemens energy and sustainability platform.Aside from these partnerships, IBM today also unveiled some developments of its own on the cloud front.This included a new set of services that IBM is calling itsCloud Connectors, allowing developers to more easily link up services in the cloud, whether they are on the cloud or not. These includeWebSphere Connect, APIConnect, MQ Connect, DataWorks, z/OS Connect Enterprise Edition, and WebSphere Blockchain Connect.The company also putthree new Watson artificial intelligence APIs into beta Tone Analyzer,Emotion AnalysisandVisual Recognition are now available in beta, and it has expanded the existingText to Speech API with emotion and re-releasing it as Expressive TTS. If youve seen demonstrations of IBMs Pepper robot, you can see some of the companys ambitions to add more empathy and emotion to machines to make them more human-like, and this is a continuing development on that front.Finally, IBM is also trying to create a more simplified environment for application development  and specifically event responses  with the launch ofIBM Bluemix OpenWhisk. This is very much a part of IBMs Internet of Things play: examples of microservices that would be included on this platform include mouse clicks or sensor data from a camera: when an event occurs, IBM says, the code is executed. Developersneed not worry about things like pre-provisioning infrastructure, such as servers or operationsthey cansimply focus on code, dramatically speeding up the process.IBM says any custom code put in a Docker container can be run.None of the above news came with details about pricing.As we have pointed out before, the company has seen 15 straight quarters of revenue decline now, and while sales in new areas like cloud continue to grow, its not yet enough to offset declines in its bigger legacy business around servers and on-premise services. Whether that means that longer term, Big Blue may turn out to be more of, well, a Medium Blue, for now the company is much too big not to matter. Its partnering with so many other companies and launching services of its own are signs of how it is firing on all cylinders to turn the ship and bring its IT dealflow with it.