You might not think that Linux and mainframe belong in the same sentence, but IBM has been putting various flavors of Linux on its mainframe computers for 15 years. TodayIBM and Canonical announced that the two companies were teaming up to build onerunning Ubuntu Linux. The new unit is called the LinuxOne.The announcement comes aspart of a broader strategy from IBM designed to drive mainframe usage to a wider audience. This new approach includes a monthly subscription pricing model, deeper involvement with other open source projects, contributing a huge cache of mainframecode to open source and participating in the newly launched Open Mainframe Project.The new mainframes come in two flavors, named for penguins (Linux  penguinsget it?). The first is called Emperor and runs on the IBM z13, which we wrote about in January. The other is a smaller mainframe called the Rockhopper designed for a more entry level mainframe buyer.You may have thought that mainframes went the way of the dinosaur, but they are still alive and well and running in large institutions throughout the world. IBM as part of its broader strategy to promotethe cloud, analytics and security is hoping to expand the potential market for mainframes by running Ubuntu Linux and supporting a range of popular open source enterprise software such as Apache Spark, Node.js, MongoDB, MariaDB, PostgreSQL and Chef.IBM lands between10 and 20 mainframe customers a quarter, according to Ross Mauri, general manager for IBM Systems. By offering an elastic, cloud-like pricing model, itis hoping to land more customers who might have beenscared away previously by the up-front cost of investing in a mainframe.The meteredmainframe will still sit inside the customers on-premises data center, but billing will be based on how much the customer uses the system, much like a cloud model, Mauri explained.At first glance, Canonical and IBM may seem to be an odd pairing, but Charles King, principal analyst at Pund-IT says its recognition by IBM of the growing relevance of Ubuntu Linux in the enterprise.In fact, John Zannos from Canonical, the company behind Ubuntu says that IBM approached his company when itbegan running into more customers running Ubuntu. He added that this isnt the first time, the two companies have worked have come together, having also worked on theOpenPOWER project.For me what is most exciting is thatIBMis working through a paradigm shift and looking at Z systems and the mainframe, expanding them and deepening open source software enablement, Zannos said.King thinksthe deal shouldultimately benefit both parties (as any good deal should). Itshould help IBM by opening doors in customers where Canonical is particularly strong. But Canonical is likely to benefit even more through exposure to the large enterprises that make up IBMs traditional mainframe customer base, King said.The overall approach aims to widen the potential market for mainframes as IBMtries to find creative ways to increase sales. In its most recent quarterly earnings report last month, the company extended its sales slideto thirteen straight quarters, posting revenue decreasesacross all of its major business lines, according to a Wall Street Journal report.In light of these numbers, IBM is looking for ways to increase those sales. Partnering with Canonical and encouraging use of open source tools on a mainframe gives the company a new way to attract customers to a small, but lucrative market.