Today following the bell, IBM reported its third-quarter financial performance, including revenue of $19.3 billionand earnings per share of $3.34, using adjusted techniques. Analysts had expected IBM to earn an adjusted $3.30 per share, off revenue of $19.6 billion.The companys shares, off a fraction in regular trading, are downin after-hourstrading, following its mixed earnings report. The companys revenue miss appears to be scoring more credence from investors than its minor profit beat. The companys profit per share, using normal accounting methods (GAAP) was a slimmer $3.02.IBMs adjusted profit fell 9 percent compared to the year-ago period. Its GAAP profit fell a steeper 13 percent. IBMs revenue on an unadjusted basis fell 14 percent.The venerable technology firm noted in its earnings report that it expects adjusted profit of $14.75 to $15.75 for the full year. That is down from its prior non-GAAP guidance during its second quarter report of $15.75 to $16.50 per share. Thats not so good.IBMs revenue clocked its fourteenthstraight quarterly decline in the third quarter.Not all the news was bad. The companys annual run rate from cloud delivered as a service, which IBM notes isa subset of [its] total cloud revenue grew from $3.1 billion in the year-ago quarter, to $4.5 billion in its most recent.IBM wrapped its quarter with debt of $39.7 billion in debt, down slightly from the start of the year. Core debt, however, rose by $2.0 billion since the start of the year to $13.7 billion since last day of 2014.Summing quickly, IBM remains mired in a business transition. While its cloud revenues, and incomes from other future-focused products are increasing, the company is hardly done rebuilding itself. The revenue miss, the chronic top linedeclines, and falling profitability paint the picture of a ship that has not yet turned around.At the same time, IBM is massively profitable, and valuable. Another 4percent haircut to its valuation wont change much. Expect investor angst on its call all the same.