Looks like IBM needs to reengineer what it thinks about women. A tweet went out on IBMs official Twitter feed asking women in tech to, I kid you not, Join the #HackAHairDryer experiment.Not hack computer software, math problems or something of social impact  a beauty product. According toIBMs Twitter account, thatswhat matters in science to women.But dosomething dumbon social media and ye shall receive a proper thwacking.Could someone let @IBM know it's not the 1950s any more? #hackahairdryer #womenintech https://t.co/KzhAHGd4Xy  Cinnamaldehyde  (@cinnamaldehyde) December 7, 2015Hundredsof Twitter users immediately began responding to IBMs tweet with somegreat retorts tothe sexist suggestionthat women with their lady brains are most interestedin switching upthehair dryer, instead of anything else that is not about their looks.Lady #science. Thanks for making it relevant and accessible to womenfolk like me, @IBM #HackAHairDryer #womenintech pic.twitter.com/IZY6gL75HQ Jo Alabaster (@joalabaster) December 7, 2015.@IBM Oh good gosh hack a hairdryer that'll make tech more easy for women to understand! 

Next time can we hack a delicious baked dinner? Kronk P (@kav_p) December 7, 2015Not even the accompanying video does a good job of involving women. Instead it stars the mighty hair dryer, barely showing half the heads of women, hair flowing while the dryer blows attheir faces.Were sure IBMs marketing team thought this was a great way to get the ladies involved. Big Blue launched a campaign earlier this year to highlightmore women in STEM. But the tone-deafcampaign backfired in a big way, with some hilarious results.How did something like this slip through marketing?A source told us there werent enough women on the team.IBM told TechCrunch, The videos were part of a larger campaign to promote STEM careers. It missed the mark for some and we apologize. It is being discontinued.Perhaps the company willrealize how important lady brains are for more than just a hair dryer next time.