This morning IBM announced it was acquiring Clearleap, a companythat gives itenterprise-gradevideo content managementservices in the cloud, and which adds another layer to itsburgeoning cloud strategy.IBMwould not disclosethe purchase price.Clearleap, whose customers include HBO, The History Channel, Time Warner Cable and Verizon (the parent company of TechCrunch) provides customers with multi-screen video processing and video asset management  and perhaps most importantly the ability to expose these features and functions as open APIs on IBMs Bluemix Platform as a Service.IBM has been thinking about video for some time and sees it as an increasingly importantcontent type, says Jim Comfort, general manager of cloud services at IBM. Video will represent 65 percent of Internet traffic going forward, he said. [It]isbecoming a first class citizen as a data type. [Customers]need ways to acquire, store, distribute, enhance and manage it, he explained.With this purchase, IBM is getting the manage and enhance pieces, and at least part of the distribute piece he said. Essentially Comfort explained, IBM has purchased the ability to apply enterprise content management to video content in the cloud, providing standard content management services like the ability to search, apply policy and move content through a work flow  except with an emphasis on video.Clearleap platform overview diagram. Photo Credit: Clearleap.It was the secondcloud purchase in two months, following the purchase of Cleversafe in October, and the two purchases are not coincidental. Cleversafe handlesthe storage piece for those fatvideo files in the cloud. Its all linkedand IBM has a plan to make this all fit together into a coherent strategy to increase revenue.Clearleaps customers are big media companies, after all. IBMs challenge is to translate the [storage] capacity these customers need into IBM cloud revenue, John Rymer, an analyst with Forrester Research told TechCrunch by email.IBM is betting thatvideo movesdeeper into the enterprise, far beyond the current media company customers.If video truly takes up greater chunks of enterprisecontentmoving forward, Clearleapgives IBM the opportunity to sellvideoservices directly, or givethose companies tools to build video-centric applications.Clearleap will contribute media services to IBMs Bluemix platform, which is already very rich. Id expect those services to appeal to enterprises using video for training, sales and marketing, etc. These video applications are important already, and growing in importance, Forresters Rymer said.The company will be adding these services to Bluemix in a brand new media zone to provide a central location for customers to access these video APIs as they build video into their companys applications  at least thats the hope.IBM hasbeen opening itscheckbook to make many purchases like this over the last several years with the hopes of changing the focus of the company to the cloud, analytics, security and big data. So far at least, it has struggled as it makes this transitionas it has seen revenue fallfor 14 straight quarters. This move is one small attemptin a larger overall plan to help the company turn this around.Clearleaphas raised just over $45 million with the most recent funding, $5 million in Series C money coming in January of this year. The high water mark for funding came in November, 2013 when it grabbed $20 million.