Digital reward platform Ifeelgoods and D.A. Consortium, one of Japans largest advertising agencies, are working together to let companies create promotional campaigns on Line messaging app. This marks the first time that brands have been able to set up a campaign delivering online rewards through Line, says Ifeelgoods chief executive officer and co-founder Michael Amar.Companies that have an official Line account through its enterprise service, Line Business Connect, can create a targeted campaign through D.A Consortium, then select digital rewards, such as discount codes or gift cards, to deliver to followers through Ifeelgoods platform. Line reported 211 million monthly active users at the end of July.Based in Palo Alto and Paris, Ifeelgoods claims it has already delivered 30 million digital rewards and run campaigns for 300 brands, including Walmart, Gap, and LOreal. Its collaboration with D.A. Consortium was struck through Ifeelgoods partnership with Japanese conglomerate ITOCHU.ITOCHU has  that it hopes the deal with Ifeelgoods will generate 100 billion yen (about $827 million) over the next three years through campaigns on Line and other platforms. Line is major communication system and we are optimistic it can play an important part of the digital reward distribution system we are creating, says Amar.After a digital rewards campaign is launched through an official account on Line, users redeem their perk by clicking on a link, picking a reward, and then redeeming the reward code, which is also sent through SMS. Brands can manage rewards through a Salesforce app, Ifeelgoods customer support, Mailchimp, or social media posts.Amar says Line is the first messaging platform that Ifeelgoods has partnered with, but the startup is currently in discussions with another large player in this industry. While there are other digital rewards platforms, like Incentive Solutions and LoyaltyWorks, Amar says Ifeelgoods is currently the only platform to provide an end-to-end, full turnkey solution that includes a rewards catalog and delivery through third-party app, so brands can launch a campaign in days.After expanding in Japan, Ifeelgoods plans to tackle growth in other Asian countries, including China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, and Thailand. It also wants to become a full-service platform, with a marketplace that lets users create and launch a rewards campaign in a few minutes.