Imgur has returned to mobile apps after it launched a new iOS app for itslibrary of addictive photos and GIFs. The company released native apps foriOS and Androidin the past, but they were shuttered due to limited success.This time around, Imgur has taken a very different approach  the app doesnt resemble the website at all, its very much a mobile app in its own right. And thats a good thing.The app uses swipe-based interactionstocycle throughImgurs vast treasure trove of still images and GIFs, allowing users to comment and favorite just as they do on the desktop web version. Interestingly, the app uses horizontal scroll rather than vertical. You can discoveryimages via twosettings on the main screen  popular and newest  while there is a random and a user sub that alsosurface content.The appis initially available for iOS, but an Android version is already in development and should be released in the coming few months. The plethora of third-party apps that have sprouted up to takeImgur mobile will continue to be supported via the companys API, Imgur CEO and founder Alan Schaaftold TechCrunch in an interview.Schaafsaid the six-year-old company adopteda mobile-first mindsetwith this release, with a focus on a clean user experience. There are plans to add topics  the new discoveryfeature that launched on the web last month  while an option toupload images from your phone a fairly criminal omissionat this point, in my opinion  will alsoarrive soon.Schaaf saidthat the app has been in development since the company raised funding last year  a $40 million round from Andreessen Horowitz and close partner Reddit. Rather than going out and acquiring a third-party, the company build it from scratch in order to cater to the experience that they believe their users are expecting.Imgur is seeing millions of images added each day, and a colossal 60 billion images are viewed each month. The core demographic is aged 18-34 and, as you might expect, the younger section of that userbase tends to spend more time surfing the web via mobile, rather than desktop. That makes a solid mobile app a very important part of what Imgur offers.The company said it went with iOS first because it believes that Apple device owners are more engaged, and also it said that they had been more vocal with providing feedback about its mobile app plans.If youre a big Imgur fan, you can check out the new iOS app right here.Oops, it looks like the app isnt available right now.Well add a working link onceit is ready. Apologies for any confusion here.The app is now live and you can get it here.Additional reporting: Sarah Perez