Why is Imgur one of the most popular websites on the Internet? Is it the connection with the so-called Internets front page Reddit? Itscommunity? The addictive nature of browsing through the photos uploaded and upvoted by Imgur users? Maybe its all of the above, as it turns out.The brother and sister team behindImgur,Alan and Sarah Schaaf, took the stage at TechCrunch Disrupt SF this morning to talk about Imgurs growth from its early days as one of the best bootstrapped startups to a company that has since raiseda $40 million Series A round from Andreessen Horowitz and Reddit to turn its online community into a serious revenue-generating business.Though the website today may not have the brand-name recognition of other social platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest and others, it sees a massive amount of traffic and user engagement.TechCrunch editor Josh Constine even teased that Imgur should donate some money to a charity focused on helping with Internet addiction, thanks to the role that Imgur plays in keeping people sucked into their computer screens and phones.In that joke was an element of truth, however  Imgur says it now has150 million unique visitors monthly, and some 20 percent of its users are spending over 10 hours per week on the site.The company is also up to 65 employees and still growing, Alan said.While some may think of Imgur as just a place to browse through humorous or interesting images from all over the web, the founding team thinks of the site a little differently.What makes Imgur so compelling goes beyond the content it hosts  its the nature of the site itself. Unlike todays other social media properties, Imgur is a placethats not tailored around your friends or followers, but is instead a shared experience among its users. Here, people find their own niche communities and other liked-minded folks.Another thing that Imgur does, explains Alan, is that it letsintroverts become extroverts. They dont have to worry about curating their own personal brand, he says of this crowd. Instead, people can go on Imgur and be themselves while connecting with others like themselves.Over the years, the Internet has been going down the path ofbecoming a more personalized experience, Alan continues. Its the same people around us every day, like a mirror of our life, but online, he says.We want to let people break outside their friends list.People dont only form friendships on Imgur, but sometimes even relationships. Sarah spoke of some Imgurians (as they call themselves)finding love after first meeting on the site.But as the company grows, cute stories about its community members wont be enough. Imgur will have to work harder at maintaining its sites culture even as it fills with new users, and monetizes through ads as its doing now with sponsored posts.Along the way, the focus on growth and revenue can derail a site  just ask Imgurs sister site Reddit, which nearly imploded after a series of missteps by management which angered its community.Alan wouldnt comment in detail on the Reddit situation, but its clear that he and Sarah are thoughtfully considering how to keep Imgurscommunity intact as the sitescales. For starters, the company doesnt ship any significant changes to Imgur without first beta testing with its members, or even inviting people into their offices to give feedback. In addition, the team says that transparent communication with users is key.When anything goes out on Imgur, the community has already had their hands in that, says Sarah.And when it comes to working with advertisers, the company has developed a playbook detailingwhat makes great sponsored content, which isoffered to brands whowant to engage with its online community.That has led some of its advertisers  like eBay and Old Spice, most recently  to actually get compliments from Imgurs users in the comments. One user even said Ive never loved marketing so much, said Sarah. Another joked that eBay will always be ebae, she added.Aimed at ayounger generation who is often said to be advertising-adverse, this sort of social media success is still something of a feat for brands.Alan wouldnt give away the secrets as to the playbooks specifics, but did say that for a sponsored post to work, it has to provide value to users. That could mean being informative, giving something away, or just being funny, he says.Ads have to be successful for the users first, he says. If theyre successful for the users, then they could be successful for the advertisers, Alan noted.