Theres lots of news from Imgur, one of the internets most popular placesfor funny images and GIFs, today. The site has officially launched nativeadvertising, and made significant changes to its Androidapp.Six-year-old Imgur,which was bootstrapped until itraised $40 million last year, is already profitable, but the company revealed last year that it planned to introduce ads to boost monetization. The site has a strong community of more than 30 million users from the U.S. alone, and the company is trying to balance efforts to increase revenue withappeasingits fans.We love hearing stories [of how fans love the site], and thats why we want Imgur to be around for a really long time. To make sure it does, were going to start experimenting with promoting certain posts from a select group of businesses, the company said in a blog post.Promoted posts will rollout slowly, theyve been trialled for at least a month, but Im not seeing them on Imgur.com right now.We want Promoted Posts to be just as good if not better than the other posts that have made their way into your stream. We hope theyll entertain you, inspire you, and help you discover cool things you didnt know about, the blog post read.The good news is that there will not be pop-ups, autoplaying or timed ads, while Promoted Posted are marked with a blue label in the top right corner (as below) to show that they arepaid content.Users are never happy to see their favorite sites embrace ads, but Imgur seems to be acutely aware of that and it is doing its best not to piss its community off. The real test will be the reaction when they are visible to more users, of course.Thats not quite all. Imgurs Android app has got a pretty major makeover. Itis now a native Android app, rather than a port from iOS, and it includesa redesigned,card-basedgallery that makesviewing photos a lot slicker, with the comments section right in place too. There are other nice design tweaks across the app, which include a revisedupload section from where you can add photos from your devices camera or library.The company tested therevised Android app with 1,000 fans  it even shared a sneak peak  and said the feedback had been positive.This is our first-ever fully native Android app, built completely from scratch, said the companys lead developer Andrew Shu. We wanted to create a better mobile-first experience, so you can quickly and easily tap into Imgur from your commute, when you need a laugh or some support, when youre bored, and anytime you get an itch for Imgur.Speaking of Imgur on mobile, its iOS app gota new release back in March, but it was missing an upload feature. Thats beingremedied. The company is waiting on Apple to review an update that will letiPhone and iPad owners submit pics right from their device.