President Obama took executive action last Novemberto further ease policies around skilled tech labor.However,our laws havent done much to help the foreign startup founders who create quite a few tech jobs here.A2008 Kaufman Foundationstudy concluded that between 1995 and 2005,more than halfof all Silicon Valleytech companies were created by immigrant founders, employing 560,000 workers and generating $63 billion in sales.But something changed in 2006. There was a commonly estimated 12 million illegalsliving in America at the time. New reforms that were supposed to make it easier for immigrants whod been here a while to obtain worker visas seemed to be making it harder for those with startups.The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006allowed those whod been in the country for 2-5 years tostay, but would required them toreturn to their country of origin after 3 years. Meanwhile, those whod been here less than 2 years would have to leave.Vivek Wadwhasuggested in his book The Immigrant Exodus that the changes to U.S. immigration policy was causing a brain drain in SiliconValley.This was seeminglyconfirmed in afollow-up Kaufman study, showing that the number of immigrant-founded startups dropped from 52 percent to less than 44 percent in 2012.This suggests would-be Silicon Valley entrepreneurswere having a harder time getting the visas they needed to start businesses here.Source: Kaufman FoundationU.S. employers can currently sponsor foreign workers with a temporary H-1B visa. However, those visas are capped at 65,000 a year. This limits the amount of workers able to stay and add to the economy here. Further, immigrants trying to start their own company have no such employer sponsorship.Canada saw an opportunity to poach Silicon Valley talent in 2013 with a billboard campaign strategically placed on the Peninsula of Californias highway 101. Signs read, H-1B Problems? Pivot to Canada.Photo => pic.twitter.com/GYZNFsuOhV @chuckganapathi: Just saw a billboard on 101 "H-1B problems? Pivot to Canada" #awesome Noah Genner (@ngenner) May 21, 2013The Presidents executive actionaddresses problems facing high-skilled immigrant workers seeking a green card. This could help tech companies hopingto bring in (or keep) foreign talent.Obama also mentioned making it easier forentrepreneurs to stay and contribute to our economy, as so many business leaders have proposed.But hedidnt provide any specific policy guidance to address that.We absolutely need legislative fixes because the president cannot increase the [visa] cap, and that is what really hurts start-ups and large companies, Emily Lam, vice president of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, told the L.A. Times at the time of the presidents immigration announcement.Meanwhile House Republicans have vowed to overturn Obamas executive action on immigration. More centrist GOP leaders are reluctant to push the issue, fearing theyd lose Hispanic groups. However, it looks like Senator Ted Cruz, who was born in Canada, is up for a fight against what he calls lawless and illegal amnesty.Some in the valley have tossedaround the idea of a startup visa. Foundry Group VC Brad Feldandthe Kaufman Foundations Paul Kedrosky wrote a Wall Street Journal op-ed back in 2009suggesting a separate visa for entrepreneurs.While theres general bipartisan agreementover legislation to support newbusinesses, the idea for a separate visa of this nature has so far gone nowhere in our nations capital. Virginia Senator Mark Warnerproposed the Startup Act this week, re-introducing the idea foranentrepreneur visa for the 4th time beforeCongress.The President will address the nation this Tuesday, Jan 20 in the constitutionally ordained2015 State of the Union. He has already announced a few tech initiatives involvingconsumer privacy and cyber security measures ahead of his speech. Pundits expect Obama to also focus on immigration.Some of the most well-known Silicon Valley foundersand job creators werent born here.Tech billionairesElon Musk, Peter Thiel, Eduardo Saverin and Sergey Brin were all born outside the United States.A report from the Partnership for a New American Economy points out that9 of the 25 top tech companies were founded by immigrants.Thats a lot of American jobs.