You might be hearing talk of depressed valuations, but that message certainly isnt reaching commercial real estate owners in the Bay Area. The median price per square foot to rent office space in the city has shot up 33.7 percent in just the last three months alone, says Loopnet, an online real estate resource. Over the last 12 months, San Francisco rents have soared 106 percent.Its easy to throw up ones hands at that the situation. Aspect Ventures, a year-old, early-stage venture firm founded by longtime VCs Jennifer Fonstad and Theresia Gouw, is instead using the trend to its advantage by renting up to 20 desks in its own, 2,600-square-foot headquarters in San Francisco. Its charging market rates, too.Its a smart move on a number of levels. First and most obviously, it helps Aspectdefray its own costs, which cant be inexpensive given current prices. According to real estate specialist Jones Lang LaSalle, average office rent in San Francisco has hit a whopping $70 per square foot.Aspect, which closed its debut fund with $150 million last year, is also willing to rent the desks to both startups it has backed and those it might fund in the future, which allows it to see moreyoung companies up close.Thats harder to do than you might think. While VCs can drop into their companies for board meetings and more, once that first check is written, its often difficultfor themto maintain a full picture of whats happening inside a company. Its a loteasier when a founder is pulling out his or her hair from just half a room away.Of course, what Aspect is also tryingto do is find a way to interact and contribute to the entrepreneurial community. As Fonstad explains it, We want to enable entrepreneurs to be truly independent and still benefit from a shared environment of working alongside other entrepreneurs and venture folks like ourselves.One of those perks is being able to quickly ask someone at Aspect about a confusing term or condition, for example. Another is taking advantage of the content programming that the venture firm organizes for its founders every couple of weeks and that everyone in the office is invited to attend.Still, the biggest benefit right now may simply be the ability to land a desk in a city where there isnt much available office space anymore.As for conflicts  what if a startup moves in and doesnt want funding from Aspect, or isnt offered it  Fonstad downplays the possibility, saying theres no implied obligation on anyones part.To be on the safe side, Aspect does have each potential tenantgo through a short application process to make sure it will be  in some way, shape or form  additive to the community. If there are any potential conflicts or concerns, Aspect is transparent about that, too, she says.After that, its up to the startups  who are expected to stay around six months, ideally  whether theystay or go. They can make a choice for themselves, she says.Photo courtesy of Aspect Ventures. From left:cofounder Theresia Gouw, principal Lauren Kolodny, cofounder Jennifer Fonstad, and associate Kamil Saeid.