With competition between same-day delivery startups as fierce as its ever been, every win counts. And today, Deliv, a three-year-old, 50-person, Menlo Park, Ca.-based startup, is putting one on the board with a new same-day prescription delivery deal with Walgreens.Right now, the service is relegated to Dallas, which has 67 store locations that will deliver prescription orders to customers for a $5 fee. But Deliv founder and CEO Daphne Carmeli says she expects the contract to expand quickly, as have Delivs arrangements with Macys, Williams-Sonoma, and other national and regional retailers.We talked with Carmeli yesterday about Walgreens, how Delivsdriver network operates exactly, and when and whether the company, which has raised $12.5 million so far from investors, will close its next round. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: There are a lot of venture-backed delivery startups. Remind readers of how Deliv differs from an on-demand delivery company like Postmates. DC: Our number one differentiator has to do with our business model. Were not a consumer marketplace. You dont download an app. Our technology integrates directly [with a] retailers checkout page, allowing customers to choose a same-day delivery option.Why thats important is we allow retailers to maintain and own that relationship with their customers.TC: There are similarities, though. For example, both Delivand Postmates use on-demand workforces to deliver goods. DC: Were really like FedEx, except we dont have capital assets. We dont own warehouses or planes or trucks. We do have thousands of drivers on our network; theyre 1099 [contractors] who can work up to 20 hours a week and their backgrounds vary by market. In L.A., we have a lot of playwrights and actors. In the Bay Area, we have a lot of realtors and accountants and grad students.About 82 percent have some other full-time thing they do, including drive with other on-demand companies, to which were completely complementary. Ride sharing peaks during morning and late-afternoon commute times; meanwhile, our peak delivery time is between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., when theres a lull.TC: But youredelivering things when people are home, correct? Or at least, youre scheduling these deliveries to accommodate their schedules.DC: When you buy something on Macys.com or BestBuy.com and you choose same-day delivery, you schedule a window. How long [that window]is depends on the retailer. It could be an hour or two hours. It could be on-demand. The real value is predictability over speed. People want to avoid that yellow sticky [note], telling them theyve missed their package.TC: Can people track their packages as they can with FedEx? Also, do your drivers just use Google Maps or the rough equivalent?DC: When an order gets placed, you can track your package and your driver.And were leveraging everything public for [mapping] information, but we have our own route optimization engine, so instead of either fill up a truck that does deliveries all day or use a truck that picks up and delivers, picks up and delivers, we can [be more dynamic] based on when and where people are buying things andwhether they change their scheduled delivery time.TC: In howmany cities are you currently operating?DC: Were in 17 markets across the country. Forty-five days ago, we were in eight.TC: Walgreens is charging a $5 fee for its new same-day prescription delivery service. Who collects what in that scenario? How do you charge your retail customers? DC: Broadly speaking, we charge retailers per delivery. What they pass on to customers is up to them. What we charge them is equivalent to what they would otherwise pay for ground shipping.The beauty of our business is that were not spending money on customer acquisition. I dont have to find people who are buying stuff. Im right on your checkout page.TC: You closed your Series A round in February of last year. Is it safe to assume youre talking again with investors? DC: Weve raised $12.5 million to date. As for our next round, were not announcing anything right now.