In late May, Apple began offering same-day delivery of the various products and accessories it sells through its Apple Store app on mobile devices through a partnership with on-demand delivery startup Postmates. Now, that same option is being made available to consumers shopping on Apples web store. In select ZIPcodes where Postmates operates, online shoppers will see a new delivery option called courier delivery, which promises to deliver the item in question within four hours.The option is listed alongside other faster delivery choices including guaranteed next day shipping, for example. Shoppers report seeing courier delivery on the store pages for iPhone, iPod, iPad and Apple TV. In addition, courier delivery has also been added to Apples online documentation, which details how Shipping & Pickup works when shopping the Apple Store online.This addition was first spotted by the blog 9to5Mac, and weve now been able to confirm that the expansion to itsonline store is, in fact, new.Image credit: 9to5MacPostmates currently operates in a number of major U.S. cities, offering delivery from local shops, markets, restaurants and more. However, support for Apple Store deliveries from within the Apple Store mobile app was limited to select San Francisco Bay Area ZIPcodes at launch. Specifically, it was only available for residents from San Mateo to Santa Clara. Those same limitations are in place again with the expansion to the web, we understand. The feefor the same-day delivery service also remains unchanged at $19, which is $2 more than expedited next-day delivery.In more recent days, Postmates has been forming partnerships with several big-name brands thatdidnt previously offer delivery, much less same-day delivery. For example, earlier this spring, Postmates began powering deliveries for McDonalds in New York and Chipotle. Starbucks has also been testing deliveryvia Postmates. The Apple partnership, however, was notable for being one of the bigger wins for the delivery service in the e-commerce space.Postmates is now one of many companiestapping into consumers desire for instant gratification when shopping online. Others operating in this space range from venture-backed startups like grocery delivery service Instacartall the way up to e-commerce giants like Amazon, which today operates a one-hour delivery service Prime Now and has recently been expanding its same-day options to more markets.Even on-demand car services like Lyft and Uberare getting into the courier business.Though the product selection and supported zip codes are still limited, assuming the Postmates pilot program with Apple goes well, its feasible that courier delivery would expand to other markets where Postmates operates in the future.Update: We understand that the functionality is not fully live at this time, in case youre not seeing the option appear for you just yet.