It looks like yet more fuel is about to get pouredon the already-hot transportation app market in Asia. Indias Ola is raising $500 million+, at a valuation that weve heard is around the $5 billion mark, with $225 million committed so far.The news comes as the company  which competes in its home market against the likes of Uber and Indian startupMeru  continues to expand into more cities, and more products. Today, Ola launched a new car leasing service for drivers on its network; last week it expanded to shuttle services for commuters.The raise is due to be finalised in the next week or two and announced officially then, sources tell TechCrunch. As it is still in progress, the final amount and final valuation may also change.This funding,a Series F,has been rumored for some time now, with the first reportssurfacingjust after Ola announced its last raise of $400 million in April of this year. That round, a Series E, valued the company at $2.5 billion.Financial news site DealStreetAsia reported earlier today that Ola had filed documents with Indias Registrar of Companies. These confirmed Olahad already secured$225 million of this latest round. The documents revealFalcon Edge Capitalas the lead investor, with Tiger Global Management,Softbank Corp., Hong KongsSteadview Capital, PittsburghsABG CapitalandtheFII LTR Focus Fund  all previous investors  alsoinvolved in this round. New investors includeJS Capital (M) Ltd,Parkwood Bespin, andDaniel E. Neary.Weve been able to confirm that list of investors with a separate source close to the story.Olas growthcomes in the midst ofa very competitive market for transportation startups in Asia and globally. Uber, the upstart from San Francisco valued at more than $50 billion, has been putting a lot of effortinto growing its presence in Asia. Its put a particular focus on India and China, recentlyraising $1.2 billionfor Uber Chinaat the same time that its rival in the country, Didi Kuaidi, raised $3 billion.In India,Uberhas committed to investing $1 billionby the first quarter of 2016 to grow its businessin the country.Although Uber hasrun afoul of the authorities at times, now itis trying to work with them more closely as a way of building its business with less drama and more buy-in from the powers that be. Just last week it announced a partnership with the government of Tamil Nadu to expand its business.Ola, however, remains the bigger company. It is live in over 100 cities to Ubers 20+, and250,000 cars in the market today to Ubers 165,000.Olas bigger vision is to seize the opportunity of a rapidly growing middle class in India coupled with relatively poor existing transportation infrastructure, providing a better service by tapping into rise of smartphones, smart mapping and other technology. The leasing service it announced today  which will initially cover 1,000 vehicles but will be expanded in partnership with Indiancar makers in future  addresses the other side of the equation: providing newer hardware (in this case, cars) to people to loop them into the Ola transportation network.But although the transportation of people remains Olasfirst priority, its not the only one: Ola has also dabbled in otherareas like food delivery. And as the company looks to improve its margins longer term, it may be newer services like thesethat also see some of the proceeds from this latest investment. DealStreetAsia notes that Ola and investors forecastthe company to post a pre-tax profit by 2017-2018.