Viddsee, a free-to-watch video platform that specializes in independent cinema and short films from across Asia, has closed a new, multi-million dollarfund round as it bids to grab a slice of Asias growing appetite for online video and plota global expansion.The round was led by Japans CyberAgent Ventures and it includes participation from an undisclosed private investor. The size of the funding has also not been revealed, but Viddsee did confirm to TechCrunch that it takes itstotal funding to date to $2.3 million. For those trying to do the math: good luck, the company has never disclosed its previous fundingrounds.Two-year-old Viddsees new raise comes at an important time for the company and its service, which counts two million monthly viewers.Southeast Asia, a culturally diverse region thats home toover 600 million people, is finally upping its video content game after years of lagging the West. Netflixjust stepped into Asia via Japan andit recently announced plans tobegin its expansion into Southeast Asiawith a Singapore launch in 2016, while local players HOOQ, spun out of Singtel, and iFlix, backed by $30 million, arealready offering similar services now.Unlike iFlix and HOOQ, which bear more than a passing resemblance to Netflix  in terms of their subscription-based business models and blend of mass market content from local and international publishers  Viddsee has paved its own path, adopting a more idealistic approach witha platform that is dedicated to showcasing independent and upcoming filmmakers from across Asia, as co-founder Derek Tan explained in a recent post on Medium.Viddsee hasfocusedits acquisition of filmmakers (and thus content) and audience growth on Asia thus far. The company has on-the-ground operations in Singapore, where it is headquartered, and Taiwan, and now there are plans to extend its physical reachto Indonesia thanks to this new funding. That approach includes localizing content marketing  via its Buzz platform  and other marketing strategies, plus an increased presence at industry events to keep the companys brand visible amongfilmmakers.Across these markets, language and cultural context is really a big thing. We need people on the ground whounderstand it all better.We know we need to be very relevant to communities, Tan said.Tan, a Singaporean who previously worked for now Yahoo-owned photo service Cooliris, explainedthat the company doesnt do any marketing around its fundraising, which is why it has kept quiet about its financing to date. But, for its next round, itmight crank up its ambitions and look beyond Asia.Wevebeen raising money to help us achieve milestones, weve been very much focused on operations. Werelooking to raise again fairly soon, [and are] seeing what we need to get ourselves to the next milestone, Tan said.We arelooking at Asia first but could expand beyond that. What were building is a cinema platform Asia is operationally a focus for us [now] because we are small, and have to pick our battles, but it doesnt stop us growing out [to other regions], he added.Right now, the service is in the early days of making revenue. It does that through work with brands, who can sponsor films and even commission them, but it is actively looking at ways to expand its monetization efforts.As we grow our audience, there might be new opportunities for filmmakers and Viddsee, Tan told TechCrunch. There may beopportunities to challenge incumbent platforms in terms of how we are doing our monetization.Beyond subscription services, the prospect of which Tan has openly discussed before, he hinted that Viddsee might also offer crowdfunding for filmmakers, and explore other possibilities. Interestingly, Tan revealed that the unnamed investor in this new round owns media companies in the U.S. and Singapore and has invested in other tech startups in both markets, so, alongside CyberAgent, the company is sure to leverage its investor base.You can check out Viddsee via its iOS and Android apps, or justwww.viddsee.com.