Smartphones could give retailers and brands unprecedented insight into consumer spending and behaviorjust by allowing you to photograph your receipt.Thats the premise of a new technology startup that launched in Indonesia today. Snapcart is backed by Ardent Capital the VC firmbehind Southeast Asias logistics network aCommerce and numerous e-commerce startups  and it aims to turn oft-discarded receipts intodata gold mines.The theoryis simple. Physical retailers and brands know little about consumers and their shopping habits beyond survey-based data and estimates from research firms like Nielsen. Yet, the precious informationis contained within a small piece of paper that shoppers typically throw away with little regard: the receipt. Snapcart is incentivizing users to takephotos of their receipts and upload them into its app in exchange for cashback and rewards.On paper, its a win-win  what consumer doesnt like free stuff? And what brand or advertisers isnt willing to pay up (incentives) to get fresh insightintotheir customers?The concept isnt entirely new. Ibotta, a U.S. company backed by over $20 million from investors, provides cash back for access to similar data.Unlike Ibotta, which requires users to photo both their receipt and individual product barcodes for in-store purchases, Snapcart uses artificial intelligence to pull product information right from a receipt, so users take just one photo.Jakarta-based Snapcart has launched with two prominent, global brands  Nestl and LOral  but says it is in talks with another 20 or so partners.Founder Reynazran Royono  formerly with Proctor and Gamble and Boston Consulting  told TechCrunch he came up with the idea when reflecting onhis experience as a consultant anda spell at e-commerce firmBerniaga.com, now OLX.co.id. Online retailers have access to a treasure trove of shopper data that physical retailers can only dream of,Royono said,and Snapcart aims to help change things.The main challenge looks to be gaining scale among shoppers Snapcart claims it has 12,000 pre-launch installs of its app.Snapcart said it will initially work with brands, which it is leveraging for marketing and other opportunities for exposure amongconsumers, andover time it plans to includephysical retailers through in-store integrations. It is firstfocused on grocery items, because they are daily necessities, but will branch out into other verticals over time,Royono explained.The company is starting livein Indonesia, Southeast Asias biggest country with a population of 250 million and ample opportunity, butRoyono said he plans to expand across Southeast Asia towards the end of 2016. Snapcart is currently raising new funding, which hesaid should give it a good 18 months of runway.Snapcart is the most promising big data business in Southeast Asia weve seen so far, Adrian Vanyl, CEO of Ardent Capital, said in a statement. For brands, it is data theyve fantasized about, but never had any practical way to actually collect.