Payments is one of those chicken-and-egg scenarios. Consumerswant to see a use case (participating merchants)before they adopt, yet merchants want to know that customers are actually using this stuff before they invest. Apple Pay has, by all accounts, significantly broadened adoption of NFC payments, and nowa solution opening it up to large numbers of merchants could be on the horizon.Ingenico a 35-year-old, France-headquartered RFID and payment tech firm  hasintroduced what it saysis the first contactless payment receiver toplug into a headphone-jack. With support for NFC, the company said its point-of-sale (POS) product will allow nearly any merchant to take payment via Apple Pay, MasterCards contactless technology and Visas payWave system.The product, which has the distinctly unsexy name of RP170c, willwork whether a card hasEMV or magstripe. It is expected to hit the market in the second quarter of this year  available both via Ingenico itself and third parties, which will white label it.The technology willsupportvirtually any Android and iOS device, the company explained. Theaim is to make Apple Pay and other technologies available to the longer tail of the retail chain, including smaller shops and outlets.Ingenicos RP170c will look something like thisWe already have [undisclosed partners]who have confirmed they will deploy it, Thierry Denis, Ingenicos North American President, told TechCrunch in an interview. Weve realized since theApple Pay announcement there is an increased demand for NFCterminals  now 65 percent of what we are shipping, even for the low-end of the market, is for NFC.We felt that the small businesssegment should have solution that should support Apple Pay, he added.Apple Pay may be the attention-grabbing part of the story, butIngenicos technology will also support Google and its new acquisition Softcardbecause  Denis explained  providing across the board support is hugely important in the payment space. In fact, he foresees that Softcard deal becoming hugely important, just as the launch of Apple Pay was.If you look at what Google has done the solution has been certified, [so] the strength of that deal is that they can have a guarantee from U.S. telecom operators that all the Android phones willhave Softcard function and features enabled, Denis said.Thats one step to making demand, another is of course a high-profile consumer name such as Apple.What we have seen in the past, is that people were not aware of whether they had the right phone [for NFC and contactless payments]. Now they know [if] they have an iPhone 6 or 6 Plusthey can do Apple Pay  the effort is a lot easier and stronger to identify, Denisadded.NFC and contactless payments have been around for years, and have been prominent in parts of Asia for nearing a decade, but only now that consumer names have jumped inhas the conceptbegun to show potential in the U.S. While initial adoptionhas been impressive, the technology remains nascent on a nationwide scale, and it will take initiatives that broaden access for that to change.Square  which Denis admitted is the No. 1player in the POS space in the U.S.  is believed to be working to include Apple Pay in its products this year, so Ingenico isnt alone in trying to broaden adoption among merchants.