
Elaine Chen is the founder and managing director of ConceptSpring, as well as a senior lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.This fall, Apple once again won the dubious honor of dominating the conversation on patent infringement.First,it lost a ruling in Germanys top civil courtover theslide-to-unlock feature, backing an earlier ruling in favor of Motorola Mobility. As expected, Apple is appealing the ruling.Then, it scored a victory when itwon a patent ruling against Samsung in the U.S. appeals courtover the same feature, plus two others (autocorrect and data detection). As expected, Samsung is appealing the ruling.Then, it took a hit when a federal jury decided thatApple infringed on a 1998 University of Wisconsin-Madison patentcovering performance-improving processing technology. As expected, Apple is appealing the ruling.Apple seems to get caught in lots of patent fights. Since 2009, Nokia has sued Apple (they settled), Apple has sued HTC (they settled), Kodak sued Apple (Kodak is appealing), Motorola Mobility sued Apple (Apple is appealing) and Apple and Samsung filed more than 40 lawsuits against each other(still fighting it out in the U.S.). The list goes on.With so much energy spent in patent lawsuits, inventors have to wonder: Whatisthe point of the patent system, and what should they do to win?The U.S. Patent Offices website has a quote that explains the intended benefits of the system:By protecting intellectual endeavors and encouraging technological progress, the USPTO seeks to preserve the United States technological edge, which is key to our current and future competitiveness. The keywords are protecting and encouraging. The system is meant toprotectinventors from the competition, and this protection should encourageinventors to innovate prolifically. However, the system as it stands today falls short of these two goals.First, protection. Are patents good at preventing competitors from entering your space? Not at all. Someone skilled in the art can take the same problem, and with hard work and ingenuity find a slightly different way to solve that same problem bypassing the whole infringement argument.Patents are better for playing defense than offense. By filing a patent, an inventor makes sure no one can patent the same thing after the fact. This protects their freedom to practice. It makes sure no one can put them out of business for marketing theirinvention.Second, encouragement. Given the dubious protection offered by patents, does the system encourage or discourage people from inventing? I would argue that it has no effect, whatsoever. Just look at the Apple v. Samsung case. For all the money, drama and press, has it changed anything about how Apple or Samsung does business? Not at all. Apple has won every round,said Michael Risch, a professor of law at Villanova University School of Law. But the reality is it hasnt actually slowed Samsung down.If massively successful technology companies like Apple, Samsung and Motorola Mobility spend years suing each other with little business results to show for the effort, should inventors bother to file patents at all? It depends on the industry vertical.There are manythought leaders who argue that software patents make no sense. Software companies with deep algorithms are often better off leaving those algorithms as proprietary technology this prevents competitors from reverse engineering their solutions by reading their published patent applications. Business logic and user experience are not reasonably protectable by claims, either.For software companies, I would posit that the only kind ofutility patentworth filing is a systems patent that outlines a novel way of integrating a system to provide an innovative end-to-end solution. That, anddesign patents, can make sense. Played properly, such systems patents on software solutions could significantly improve the valuation of a company.For hardware companies, the situation is different. Hardware can sometimes be reverse engineered by doing a careful teardown. So it is paramount that anything physically visible in the system architecture be covered by a good set of patents. One would need a good utility patent on the overall system to cover the end-to-end solution, in addition to a constellation of utility and design patents covering components in the hardware architecture.Patents may not encourage innovation per se, but they dont have toretard innovation. Inventors need to understand how the system works, and figure out how to succeed within this system. With the help of a good patent attorney, an inventor should be able to craft an intellectual property protection strategy that can remove obstacles and help their business achieve market success.