Intel  the worlds largest chipmaker reported its Q4 earnings today after the close of trading. The company appeared to beat estimates with revenues of $14.9 billion and earnings per share of $0.74. Analysts on average wereexpectingEPS of $0.63 on revenues of $14.8 billion.Despite the surprise boost especially on EPS, Wall Street is not happy withthe numbers: the companys stock is downmore than 5% in after-hours trading. One clue might be in the forecasts: Intel also posted a weak outlook for the quarter ahead, with GAAP revenues of only $14.0 billion, plus or minus $500 million, and a weaker grossmargin of 58% and some other weak growth points.For comparison, todays figuresare level with2014 Q4 EPS of $0.74 and only slightly above sales of $14.72 billion for the quarter a year ago.Intelsfull-year results  also posted today  were $55.4 billion. This is also down compared toa year ago, with operating income of $14.0 billion, net income of $11.4 billion and full-year EPS of $2.33.As PC sales continue to decline globally, Intelhas been in the midst of a transition to a new generation of products, which it says is bearing fruit.Our results for the fourth quarter marked a strong finish to the year and were consistent with expectations, said Brian Krzanich, Intel CEO, in a statement. Our 2015 results demonstrate that Intel is evolving and our strategy is working. This year, well continue to drive growth by powering the infrastructure for an increasingly smart and connected world.Intel saidlast quarter that it expected Q4 revenues of$14.8 billion, give or take$500 million. It also anticipated a restructuring charge of $25 million as it continues to transition to new waves of business.While Intel says it is making the transition to newer areas of business, its slow going. For the quarter, Intels business units break down like this:The Client Computing Group posted revenueof $8.8 billion, up 3% sequentially butdown 1% year-over-year.The Data Center Group had revenue of $4.3 billion, up 4% sequentially and up 5% year-over-year.The Internet of Things Group had revenue only of $625 million, up 8% sequentially and up 6% year-over-year.Software and services operating segments had revenue of $543 million, down 2% sequentially and down 3% year-over-year.The Non-Volatile Memory Solution Group revenue was flat sequentially and up 10% year-over-year.Theworlds biggest chipmaker is making a big bet on putting itself at the core of a number of other devices beyond the PC. During the Consumer Electronics Show earlier this month, the company opened the show with its keynote, where its CEO showed offIntelsmany advances inbuilding processors and other technology to work on anything but a PC  from wearables through to music and industrial equipment. Intels stand at the show  a huge installation with multiple hands-on demonstrations of the technology  continued to relay the message.You can see the PC trend playing out in Intels other activities. The companys VC arm Intel Capital has been making investments in areas like robotics,gaming companies, and drone makers (sometimes subsequently acquiring those investments)  all areas that are strategic for the company as potential platforms for Intels products, from chips to imaging technology.But while productslike RealSense  Intels powerful image and gesture recognition tech  give Intel a shot at diversifying into more areas down the line, the company is also continuing to double down on its core product. Earlier this month the company completed its biggest-ever acquisition, paying $16.7 billion to buyAltera, which also makes processors for a variety of products. For Intel, Altera may be a chipmaker, but also part of a new generation thatcould help Inteladvance further into another emerging area of computing: connecting disparate objects in the Internet of Things.More to come.