Intel is widely seen as a leader around corporate diversity in tech. But, it turns out, some Intel employees are not happy with the companys stance on it. In fact, theres been a bit of a backlash within the company and even threats made toward the companys senior leadership team, Intel CEOBrian Krzanich told Rev. Jesse Jacksonon stage atthe PUSHTech 2020 conference today in San Francisco.People worry that as a white man, youre kind of under siege to a certain extent, Krzanich said. Theres been a bit of resistance. Weve even had a few threats and things like that on some of our leadership team around our position on diversity and inclusion. We stand up there and just remind everybody its not an exclusive process. Were not bringing in women or African-Americans or Hispanics in exclusion to other people. Were actually just trying to bring them in and be a part of the whole environment.[Update 10:19 a.m. PT:Regarding what kind of threats the leadership team received, an Intel spokesperson said, The context here is that any time you undertake a big initiative its a journey and an ongoing process toward change and evolution. I know you mentioned the words can mean many things so this is the context.]Over the last year or so, Intel has had a 30 percent increase in its underrepresented minority population, bringing the total up to 12 percent company-wide, Krzanich said. He also noted that Intel surpassed its hiring goals with 43.3 percent of its new hires in the past year or so being female or coming from an underrepresented minority group.Included in Intels next diversityreport will be employee pay data broken down by gender and race.We are going with the data and we are going public, Krzanich said. I almost hope there are gaps, not because I want people to be underpaid, but because its a problem I can fix. Im an engineer, I like fixing problems.This all comes a little more than a year after Krzanich announced Intels $300 million commitment to diversity, which has included partnerships with historically black colleges and universities, as well as nonprofit organization CODE2040. Regarding the pipeline problem in tech, Krzanich said that its bunk.Thats just not true that you cant find good minority, women candidates, Krzanich said. If you send a diverse team to diverse colleges, you suddenly come back with a great pipeline.Additional reporting by Kate Conger.