The Internet has always been about experimentation, collaboration and communication. It was designedto erase the physical and intellectual boundaries that separate us by making communication effortless and nearly instantaneous.At its core, that vision of collaboration remains very much a part of the connected experience.Here at TechCrunch, we share that notion of collaboration and open communication, which is why, a few months ago, we began expanding the role contributors play on the site.What started as an experiment back in November hasbeen more successful than we could have firsthoped.From thoughts on the coming battle for the customer interfaceto a history of the first trillion-dollar startupto an explanation of the importance of cards in the mobile web, weve run some great pieces.Now, weve got an updated editorial calendar for 2015 (below) that you can peruse.Its important to emphasize that the topics we map out for the year shouldnt limit the pieces that you, our super-smart gang of readers and writers, submit.Well always look to publish the best thoughts from the startup, entrepreneurial and investment communities:articles like Bill Maris excellent ruminationon the arguments for and against a looming tech bubble;Kevin Rose opining on the douchebaggery of the gold Apple Watch;Ben Horowitzs musings on pressure; or Vinod Khosla writing about the future of health. Their voiceswill always have a home here.The calendar is for those reluctant recluses among you to take a shot at writing about your technological predilections and provocations.Technology truly is shaping every human endeavor, so any human endeavor is fair game for you to observe and analyze through techs lens.Think on this: When the pope has an accelerator; politicians stump for office via hologram; virtual reality has become a reality; and theres a computer in nearly everyones pocket before everyone has access to enough food and clean water, then theres no limit to the ways in whichtechnology transforms our lives.Were asking you to help us reflect on whats behind these black mirrors, and we cant wait to read about what you see there. So take a peekat the 2015 calendar below and send usyour words.Timed around the mega (shit)show that is CES, theres no better month to discuss the latest and greatest in gadgets and gizmos. Send us your thoughts on those poorand tired ideas  and the works of staggering genius  designed to part the tech-obsessed from their hard-earned loot.Media and the arts have been shaped and reshaped by technology since humans invented paint. As the pace of change increases, industries have been born, died, and been resurrected. Meanwhile, ourappetite for bread and circuses persists unabated. So Calling all digitalartists, musicians, actors, investors, entrepreneurs, agents, plastic surgeons, tellus what youre seeing happening around how technology is changingthe biz.Theadvent of the first Internet President has ushered in a new age of technologys influence on politics.With Indias future prime ministerstumping around the country through a hologram, and the nations tech elite pushing political agendason everything from immigration reform to education andInternet access, the two strange bedfellows seem to have evolved into a co-dependent relationship. The tech industry has its roots in academic research and government largesse, but these days it seems like politicians are rising and falling in part due to the support of an active tech industry.As the coalition of technology executives standing up for LGBT rightsreveals; the tech community has a growing awareness of its clout and an increased willingness to take public stands on hot-button issues.For most folks in the venture business, theres no more debate around the validity of climate change. The pace of environmental degradation due to climate change seems to be increasing, and at this point, its a matter of what can be done to mitigate itsworst effects.As President Obama has said:We need scientists to design new fuels. We need farmers to help grow them. We need engineers to invent new technologies. We need entrepreneurs to sell those technologies. We need workers to operate assembly lines that hum with high-tech, zero-carbon components. We need builders to hammer into place the foundations for a clean energy age. We need diplomats and businessmen and women, and Peace Corps volunteers to help developing nations skip past the dirty phase of development and transition to sustainable sources of energy. In other words, we need you.And we need you, those sameengineers, entrepreneurs, workers, builders and diplomats to write about the ways in which you are answering this challenge.The coming wave in financial services technology innovation is going to be huge, and its going to change more industries than the general public realizes. The nearly $1 billion that investors had spent on financial services technology companies as ofthe first quarter of 2014 has been dwarfed by investment in subsequent quarters. Not only is venture capital changing finance, but finance is changing venture capital.In the wake of tax season, and as the frenetic pace of investment in the first half of the year begins to wind down, were looking for thoughts on the investment landscape and the business of money.Money changes everythingand technology is changing money, so well look atways the wealthiest invest and examine tools designed to eliminate the problems of the poorest.Summer is starting and students are getting ready for vacation, but for the majority of the population a true vacation is non-existent. How is technology transforming the work world? From wearable technologies that make work easier to software technologies that improve the hiring process, we want your thoughts on the new workplace and the role of mobile devices and computing within it.Space isnt the final frontier anymore. From startups planning missions to Mars and mining asteroids for minerals, to the tiniest particles man has manufactured, were still pushing boundaries. We want input from those of you who areputting the tools of tomorrow into the hands of the entrepreneurs and visionaries of today. If youre pushing the boundary in any field, let us know about it.In the doldrums and depths of summer we all think about getting away for a while. How is technology changing the travel business? Were not onlytalking about booking a trip or staying in a hotel, but also how cars, trucks and aviation are changing. What innovations are being applied to the way we move ourselves, and how do we think about that movement?Arguably theres no industry that has been more transformed by technology than the field of medicine. Advancements in genetics have transformed medicine and the treatment of illnesses, while the increased processing power and mobility of computingis helping to createa new architecturefor building the healthcare companies of tomorrow.Tell ushow things like wearables, mobile devices, the ability to process massive amounts of data, and the modern miracles of new medical treatments and devices are developing and changing how we thinkabout health.Even asreligion begins to embrace the power of technology to reshape human society, technology may make religion obsolete through the demise of humanity. If technology is as radically transformative as we say, itll touch even our sense of our spiritual selves. So lets discuss it. And (hopefully) building off of our heady submissions on technologys transformation of religion, well get into technologys transformation of intelligence and sentience.How are artificial intelligence and robotics evolving? How can they impact our sense of what evolution means? What is intelligence? Were becoming ever more comfortable with robots in the home and on the factory floor for discrete tasks, but whats next for us. and when, if ever, will we need to think about invoking Asimovs Three Laws of Robotics?From artificial intelligenceto foundational learning, everything about education is changing through the application of technology. Each step in the evolution of sentience can be husbanded by a computer now. In fact, technology is changing the conceptof a proper education as startups and entrepreneurs develop new ways to train our brainsandthe business of education itself is disrupted. Tell us how things are changing. Tell us whats next. Tell us whether its good or bad. But above all teach us about these radical changes to what, how and where we learn.December means Christmastime,and consumers are going to be participating in one of the busiest shopping seasons of the year. So how has technology impacted the oldest business and whats changing about the art, architecture and avenue of the sale?(It is in your best interest to read the followingvery carefully before you submit.)(It is in your best interest to read the following very carefully if your submission has been approved.)