Every startup needs a steady diet of funding to keep it strong and growing.Datadog, a monitoringservicethat helps customers bring together data from across a variety of infrastructure and software is no exception.Today it announced a massive $94.5 million Series D Round. The companywould not discuss valuation.The roundwas led by ICONIQ Capital. Existing investors Index Ventures, OpenView Ventures, Amplify Partners, Contour Ventures and other unnamed equity holdersalso participated. The funding comes almost exactly a year after the company announced a $31 million roundand brings the total investment to just under $148 million.As you might expect from a company that has scored $125.5 million in one year, it seems to be doing quite well for itself. In fact, CEOOlivier Pomel reports the company has been tripling its revenue over the last four years and more than tripled it in 2015, but he says 90 percent of the business is in the U.S.He intends to use part of this moneyto try and change that. In the coming year, Pomel hopes to carve out markets in Europe, Asia and South America to expand beyond the several thousand customers the companyalready has. Naturally, thatwill involve adding new employees.Over the last year, ithas grown from around 75 employees at the time of the last funding announcement to180 today. Pomel says that number should double again this year. The bulk ofDatadogs engineering team is based in New York City, but it also has a Research and Development office in Paris and plans toopen sales offices in the EU as well as other international locations in the coming year.Although Datadogs servicemight sound like applications performance monitoring, Pomel says ittends to be at the centerof an overall monitoring solution and is much broader. For instance, itmight collect data from various systems including information from an applications performance monitoring tool like New Relic or AppDynamics and a log analysis tool like Splunk, then pull it all together into a single dashboard view for IT personnelto see the overall health of the IT systems. This can allow them to pinpointproblems and glitches across systems.Pomel reports his companytends to compete with larger legacy vendors such as IBM, HP, BMC and CA, but hereports that the strongest competition tends to be open source solutions or companies trying to build something themselves.While there are also startups out there trying to solve similarissues, Pomel says one of the big differences between his company and the rest of the analytics field is his companysemphasis on the needs of IT, as opposed to a more business-centric focus.DatadogCustomers include Salesforce, Google, Zendesk, Airbnb and Samsung. Surprisingly Datadogalso listsHP as a customer, despite sellingits own monitoring tools.