Needs no ghost come from the grave to point out the messaging app space has multiple giants already, whether its Facebook-owned WhatsApp, Facebooks in-house Messenger app, or the pioneering Asian messaging platforms that kicked off the messaging app craze, such as Koreas Line and Chinese firmTencents WeChat. Or, hey, Snapchat if youre one of the cool kids.No matter: U.S. startup Invi reckons theres space for one more messaging play. Not a little one either. Co-founder Iddo Tal (still) sees a gaping hole in the market for a North America-focused messaging platform giant to flourish  and, he hopes, become a global marketplace for content distribution. Such stuff startup dreams are made on.He and his team havebeen plugging away for more than threeyears now (we first covered them two years ago when they announced a $3 million seed round), starting out with a different idea. And launching multiple apps to test different messaging approaches. To date their various iterated messagingapps have had some 285,000 downloads, says Tal. So they clearlyhave a longway to go tobuildthatmassive content-distribution messagingmarketplace of their dreams. Theyre nowlaunching out of beta.We were experimenting for a while. We really launch an MVP and experimenting with it, but the launch is today,Tal told TechCrunch onThursday. We are being featured by Google worldwide We were on a beta so far testing, and todays the launch In the last few days we saw a dramatic spike in the traffic and we know that we are ready.Ready for what? Where exactly is the gap Invireckons is there for the filling? Firstly its inNorth America, for something locally flavored (vs those giant Asian messaging platforms); and secondly on Android  because he says the native messaging experience has lots of room for improvement (vs iOS which has more functionality via iMessage).But what about Facebook Messenger (an app which has been downloaded more than one billion times on Android)? Its hampered bythe baggage of being associated with the Facebook brand, argues Tal. Well, if not fb thenSnapchat? Thats not messaging in the texting sense, he says, adding that the point is U.S. teens are still sending a metric tonne of plain old SMS texts.A lot of people just text. If you talk with a teenager  we talk with hundreds, all the time [and ask them]how many messages you send a day in general on your phone, theysaid I sent 200 messages. And how many of them are Snapchats? They said 15. And how many WhatsApp? I sent 10. So wheres the 175 left? They said just texting Openingthe native SMS app.So between them and their friends all the communication between a person and his [closest peers] is always SMSes.So theres the logic of the market opportunity Invi sees. Itsmessagingapp combinesSMSwith additional messaging features such as basics like IM (for real-time messaging) and the ability to access the phones camera in-app to snap a quick selfie, with support for group texting (of up to 100 participants), plus richer media content viewing and sharing via something it calls mini apps  aka widgets where users can view and interact with content from other apps, such as YouTube, right in the messaging window.The app is a fullSMS replacement on Android, meaning it replaces the native SMS client and enables users to text and receive texts from non-Invi users (as SMSes). Richer media content sharing via its mini apps require both users have Invi installed (non-users get texted a link to where they can download the app).iOS walled garden approach does not support this type of deep messaging integration  so although there is an Invi iOS app it cantsupport SMS and is more of a placeholder in case Apple changes its mind on opening up native messaging to third party devs (dont hold your breath).Invi hasa spilt screen view, withmini apps accessed via a swipe down drawer at the top of the screen. If the user then wants to share a particular piece of third party content which they are viewing/interacting with they hit the red share button to shiftthat content into theircurrent messaging thread. All without having to dive out of the app tocopy and pastelinks. Provided, that is, the app they want to use is supported.And therein lies the rub. The number of mini apps is pretty limited at this point. YouTube is one big name with the targetteen demographic but Invi counts a Google Silicon Valley angel investor among its funders which likely helped grease the API wheels there. Getting other big name app brands onto its platform wont be easy unless it scales users a lot. And it wont do thatunless it has the apps theyre after Classic network effect.Its built some mini apps itself. Right now theres only a handful. Othersinclude Buzzfeed and Reddit. Tal saysthe aim, down the line, is to offer an SDK so developers can buildtheir own mini apps to grow the number of widgets available.Hes even hopeful Snapchat couldone day be an Invi partner. Which is a niceidea, but such a mega-platform haszero incentive to offeranything of the kind. Still, Invi can dream.We build a few [mini apps] ourselves. We did a partnership with YouTube  that they open up special APIs. And there are a few that we worked with their APIs but were playing with the idea to open an SDK for developers so every developer can hook up very quickly a mini app inside Invi so their content can be very easily shared and distributed among users, one on one, or in groups. It can be games, it can be content, he says.If Invi can scale its user-base substantially Tal sees scope for a business model based on helping other app developers spread their content efficiently by making it easier for people to share stuffvia their messaging threads  and withinlarge groups. Although Id suspect most texting is one-on-one, orwithin small groups, rather than the 40 friends example hecites (which sounds a lot more like#spam).The app will be always free for users, messaging will be free The money will be taken from the app developers who want to get reach for their games or for in-app purchases, he adds.As noted above, the team has been working on their messaging playfor threeyears+ at this point (for some comparative context: at a similar point in its development history WhatsApp had climbed into thetop 20 iOS apps in the US).Slow development has beena case of making sure the product was right, saysTal, as well as doing a lot of researchfiguring out where there might be a messaging app gap so talking to teens and studyingtheir textingand sharing behavior.He says teens talk about contentwhen theyre texting but the process of sharing links to that content canbreak the conversation flow as participants have to jump out of the messaging thread torefer to whatever video or piece of music theyre discussing. Putting that rich mediacontent within reach inside the texting app is Invis answer to that problem  and to standing out in a very crowded space.Whether its an answer that will convinceenough users to replace their usual texting with talkingon its platform remains to be seen. In many ways, SMS minimalism is exactly whats so great about it.SMS reached 5.4B users. Now growth stopped. Why? Illiteracy. Almost all humans above age 8 who can read, use SMS http://t.co/qcdN8SuZiN tomiahonen (@tomiahonen) June 12, 2015Widest reach media on planet? SMS. Fastest media on planet? SMS. Best response rate media? SMS. Best CONVERSION? SMS http://t.co/qcdN8SuZiN tomiahonen (@tomiahonen) June 12, 2015sms sms sms SMS, sms sms sms SMS, sms sms sms SMS, SMS SMS SMS SMS, SMS sms sms sms, SMS sms sms sms, SMS sms sms sms, sms sms sms sms tomiahonen (@tomiahonen) June 19, 2015