Security can be a very dry and impenetrable topic.But ifthe steady creep of connected devices into peoples homes and day-to-dayroutinescontinuestheres arguably going to need to be a very broadeffort to widenawareness ofpotential privacy risks.Not least becauseIoT devices are all too often all too easy to hack. Giventhat expensive and sophisticated corporate networks have been shown, time and again, to be far fromimmune tohackers, cheap products like Internet-connected dollsand babycamsstand precious little chance of being able to guarantee sensitivedomestic data is locked away from prying eyes (especially if governments persist in trying to perforateencryption  but I digress ).Whats more, a lot of IoTproducts areusedin domestic environments wherekids live. So theres a direct educational imperative to raise childrens awareness ofthe risks of the IoT devices that increasingly surround them  and do so in an engaging and accessible way.In an attempt to illustrate IoTrisks to ayoung audience, VPN providerHideMyAss.com has createdan I Spy book based on the childrens guessing game and a lesson plan for primary age U.K. school kids that aims toteach themabout thedarkerside of connected devices.The I Spy: The Things That Spy On Me book covers27 differentconnected devices  such assmart home security systems, smart locks and Internet-connected toys  explainingpotentialvulnerabilities; reasons whyhackers mightbe tryingto break into them; and looking at methods to prevent future attacks. (Presumably the kid-friendly advice for securingwebcams when not in use wouldbestick a sticker over it, just to be sure )The book isco-written by ethical hacker Marcus Dempsey, andhas been offeredto 100 U.K. schools for free by HideMyAss. The company is also offering a set lesson plan and in-class Q&A with an ethical hacker to interested schools (who it says can get in touchvia its website)  triallingthis at primary schools in East London andGreater Manchester.Each session focused on identifying vulnerabilities of Internet-connected objects, understanding the techniques used by cyber criminals and the methods of preventing future attacks, it says.Certain U.K. schools do alreadyteach Internet Safety as part of the curriculum for pupils aged 8 to 11 years old but the swift spreadof IoTdevices means educational material is going to need to shift pretty quickly too.Obviously HideMyAss has its own business incentive to raise awareness of privacyissues, given it sells VPN software. But theres no doubt the Internet of Things has a big, ugly and growing problem with security. So anymove to offer a counterweight to the apparently inexhaustible hype aroundsmart devices amounts to welcome balance.Bottom line: connectivity can cut both ways, and as manufacturersembed Internet connectivityinto more and moreeveryday objects, its increasingly important to conveytheother side of the story to a public thats beingincreasinglysurrounded byaweb of Internet-linked devices. And to tell that talein a compelling and accessible way.So if thatmeansthe bogey man of the modern day kids storybecomesthe wi-fi connected lens lurking in the corner of the bedroom, so be it. Move over Mr Wolf