Amazon, eBay and other giants of online commerce are not fully present in Southeast Asia, and that has led to a glut of online shopping startups rising up across the region. At times it can get hard to keep with all the options  from Rocket Internet-backed Zalora and Lazada, to small players  and thats where iPrice hopes to help.The startup, which is based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, is a single place where consumers can shop for products from a multitude of retailers. Initially focused on fashion, it has expanded into other verticals including electronics, jewelry and home and currently stocks over 3 million products.It claims to differentiate itself from price-comparison sites by focusing on discovery rather than price, thanks tometa search and visual results.Were trying toimitate the offline experience as best as possible, Heinrich Wendel, iPrice CEO and a former product manager with Microsoft in Seattle, told TechCrunch in an interview. New stores and services launch every week; its hard for young people to find their way through this e-commerce jungle.To help move things along, the startup, which makes money bycommissions from sales, has raised a $550,000 seed round fromAsia Venture Group (AVG). The capitalis set to be spent developingthe iPrice product in particular its search feature and recruiting retail partners.Covering six countries in Southeast Asia and Hong Kong, iPrice started out as a coupon site and it still tags coupons into its deals,Wendel explained, because they arepopular with shoppers.iPrice initially launched in early 2015, but it began to ramp things up when a redesigned version of the site went live in March. Over the past three months, the service has handled$1 million in sales, and it clocked 250,000 sessions last month, Wendel revealed.The iPrice CEOsaid the company banks anything from 5-15 percent commission on purchases depending on the retail partner. With zero cost and effort needed on the part ofe-commerce stores, he said he believes the model is a no-brainer for partners.Our pitch to e-commerce stores is simple, he explained. We give you traffic and get commission if someone buys your product.Despite the simplicity of the offering (Wendel likens iPrices role to that of an online marketing partner) AVG founder Tim Marbach said the niche hasnt been a focus for many entrepreneurs in the region.E-commerce is growing so fast in Southeast Asia that there are so many opportunities in lead generation, Marbach, who is alsoa co-founder of grocery delivery startup HappyFreshand an investor in iMoney, told us. Everyone is paying attention toprice comparison, but iPrice is well positioned to take a large slice of the market.Wendel and Marbach said that iPrice decided to raise a relatively modest round because the team didnt want to overly dilute its holdings and, besides salaries, itsbusiness isnt overly capital intensive.The dealisabout horses and jockeys, Marbach added. Ireally like the horse and I really like the jockey; Heinrich is a really strong product and tech guy.