
Raghava KK is co-founder of Flipsicle, an incubator building out visual search and discovery solutions.One oftheamazing accomplishments ofthesmartphone is how its inspired us to take photos and share them  tons of them, with everyone. Its estimated we have already taken more than a trillion photos in 2015. That would be more snapshots than have been taken in all of photographic history till now.We should be proud. But it isnt enough to take a photo. We need to find concrete ways to connect, discover and search these trillions of available pictures.TheInternet, at 25 years old, has more than a billion connected sites. However impressive, it pales in comparison tothe4.7 trillion photos (inthelast few years) that have documented our lives, aspirations, feelings andcreativity. I cant help but think what a backup of this total human consciousness would look like. Imagine thesuperhuman web of insights that might emerge if you connected all photos taken!Itstimefortheemergence of avisualInternet. A visual Internet differs from a semantic one. Lets look atthelanguage of artists visualthinkerswho understand andmanipulatevisuals for a living.To an artist, a photo is multivalent, or different things to different people.Artists see visuals as both windows and mirrors.Avisualwindow allows us to look into a photo to see whats inside: a dog, a tree, a beach, etc. Googles search algorithms have been okay at telling ustheobjective content of a photo;thevisualmirror, however, reflectsthebiases we bring tothevisual.AvisualInternetwill, however, build connections between photos, both as windowsand mirrors. It will comprehend whats in the photo and guess how a viewer may interpret it.But how do we buildthese connections?So far, much ofartificial intelligence (AI) inthevisualspace has focused onthewindow of a photo, analyzing and connecting based on objective content. But when you focus onthemultivalence of a photo, you build richer intelligenceand create more complex relationships between photos based onthemirror aspect  that is, subjective meanings.Thetricky part of subjectiveknowledge is that we cant rely ontheuser to tell us how they really feel about a photo; nor can we getthetrue meaning of a photo. It is too often subconscious,and has to be decoded fromtheusers behavior. Something we know for certain is that no computer can gauge your emotional response to something. Well, not yet.So I suggest a new kind of user interface. Early intheInternetyears, an interface was about beauty, whereas now it concerns relevance, behavior and choice.With good user interface, we can model simple human behavior to see how people subconsciously react to any photo.Tinders swipe is a great example.Thebrain doestheheavy lifting of interpreting a photo through a users actions  and it is studied through big data. As we tally data, we can cluster people solely based on their subconscious reaction to a photo. And thats how we begin tounderstandtheway people make meaning of photos.Ive been thinking: What if someone owned allthevisualreal estate ontheInternet? They could collect invaluable insights abouttheway we think. Pinterest is onitsway there. Aside from being a fine place to organize your ideas and thoughts, it has, underthehood, already indexed almost allthephotos ontheInternet(ortheones worth indexing). They should be thinking about new ways to discover this wealth of information.We have seen Instagram turn ontheExplore feature, while other e-commerce players (Fancy, Wanelo and WeHeartIt) monetize user curation. MetaMind uses what it calls vision algorithms for deep learning. All these sites, however, still expect a user to explicitly tell how they organize and make sense of photos. I am waiting for new interfaces that collect information based solely on a users passive browsing.Dr. Ramesh Jain, a computer science professor from UC Irvine, is attempting to solve this same problem through his startup Krumbs, which will let you connect photos via several criteria. Jain believes that just searching for a photo isnt enough; we should be able to search from within a photo, too.Here at Flipsicle we hope to launchtheseeds for avisualInternetby using big data to connect visuals based on how a user subconsciously makes meaning from his photos  what his behavior tells usthephoto makes him think or feel.For me, art and tech are two eyes onthesame body. Open one eye and view this beautiful world of ours. Opentheother and you envision a richness you cant articulate. Brought together  theobjective andthesubjective  they hand us immensely rich insights into who we are and how we think.Now that we have all this information, what do we do with it? Understanding how a userthinks is as important as understanding how a user behaves. Great design, personal photos and subjective AI are about to becometheenterprise game changers that will create fantastic businesses no one dreamed of. We will get closer totheuser than ever before. And finally, computers will generatethemuch-needed empathy in this world.