Disclosure: I own less than 500 shareseach of Twitter, Yahoo, and Aol stock.The new year always brings new speculative tech predictions. Some of the most commonpredictions this year are that neither Dick Costolo and Marissa Mayer will make it through 2015 with their titles intact.Wall Street analysts and activist investorshave called for changes at Twitter and Yahoo (and at our parent company Aol) so many times that perhaps everyone should just play CEO musical chairs: Dick Costolo can come to Aol, Tim Armstrong can go to Yahoo, and Marissa Mayer can go to Twitter.While Costolo was SoulCycling to Beyoncin Las Vegas this week, chatterabounded at CES, among people who hear things, that Twitter President of Global Revenue Adam Bain is the front-runner for the next Twitter CEO.Its not clear where this rumor came from, but its hit the surface. On the Jay and Farhad show last week, Business Insiders Nich Carlson speciously confirmed it,Adam Bains friends tell me that Adam Bain is going to be CEO of Twitter someday. That thats gonna happen.Also  in here, @nichcarlson starts some gossip about Adam Bain being Twitter CEO eventually. http://t.co/1tgnHdS1Up Jay Yarow (@jyarow) January 3, 2015Weve heard the same about Bain, but one source says that these whispers are most likely the outgrowth of analysts like Walter Price and Robert Peckcalling for Costolos head, and former Yahoo CEO Ross Levinsohn suggesting that Twitter and Yahoo merge.Twitter has steady but not stellar user growth and a big user retention problem. Itneeds to find a solution soon: Its stock price has plummeted, hence investor thirst for executive change despite solid revenue numbers. Twitters stock rose 4% after Pecks comment that theres a good chance hes [Costolos] not there in a year.According to another source, *if* someone does end up replacing Costolo, it would be Bain. But Twitter hasnt gotten to the point where its considering it internally and the rumor did not come from inside the company or the board, they said. The board hasnt even started considering CEO replacements according to our source.However, an internal discussion might happen if Costolo misses Twitters fourth quarter and fiscal year earning expectations on February 5th. If he does miss on user growth numbers (namely MAUs), the public market outcry for his removal will be too much for board members to ignore.When asked if that were likely to happen, our source said that Twitter would likely not miss on revenue, but on user growth, who knows?Bain, who has been at Twitter since 2010 and was at Fox Audience Network before then, is well liked internally and externally. He is a star, and also hits this magic trifecta: Hes someone whom Wall Street, Twitter employees and users trust.For what its worth, investor Jason Calacanis wrote that firing Costolo would be a huge mistakebecause Twitter has the potential to be a celebrity powerhouse when it launches its much-anticipated video product in a few weeks. Costolo has a prodigious sense of humor, has managed to turn Twitter into a huge cultural and revenue generating force, and has taken the company public. As a tiny shareholder, Id also hate to see him go, but acknowledge that Twitter needs to get its story straight asap. Or buy the next Instagram.