European mobile payments player, iZettle, which offers smaller merchants the ability to process card payments via its mobile card readers, is expanding intowhat amounts tosmall business loans  announcinga capital advance product, called iZettle Advance, which will be available to select iZettle customers who need funds to growtheir own businesses. So its basicallymoving onto even more of the territorywhere traditional banks fear to tread.iZettle Advance will be rolled out gradually in its European markets starting with the Nordics, saysCEO Jacob de Geer. The startups fastest growing markets at this stage are the Nordics, the U.K. and Brazil  although he adds it currently has no plans to offer the Advance productin Latin America at this point.Theres no word on what proportionof its customers couldbe granted loans at this stage. The amount that can be borrowed will also depend on the business in question, so on factors such as how much revenue they are processing on a monthly or yearly basis (a figure which iZettle is of course privy to, given its existing roleprocessing their card payments).Expanding into offering a capital advance product is a bid to tackle another pain-point for small businesses, says de Geer. Everyone told us that getting access to capital to growth their business was something they were all looking for but nothing they could find from the traditional banks. So with that in mind we thought this was a suitable product for them, he adds.iZettle customers will be pre-assessed for the financingso theres no application process  to minimize the admin burden on SMEs.Theres such a big gap in the market, he adds. Small businesses are looking for simple solutions and instant access  and we think we can provide them with that, with the current platform set-up that we have.Clearly theres a customer retention playhere too, given the capital advances willonly be offered to existing  and presumably longer term  iZettle users.Theres alsoaplatform lock-in element, as loans arepaid back automatically as a fraction of the customerscard sales. Bottom line: youre lesslikely to switch to another mobile card payments provider if your card payment processing is tied up withpaying back a business advance to your currentprovider.The rate at which the loans can be paid back can also vary, based on the customers month to month sales  to better fit with the dynamics of smaller businesses, says iZettle. And theres no interest charges. Its a fixed fee for the advance, which also varies per customer. The amount that can be borrowed is a moveable feast too  once again depending on the businessin question.de Geer says iZettle is leveraging what it knows about its existing users to be able to extend them theoffer of business financing, although he says its also doing some additionalrisk assessment  such as looking at more traditional measures, like credit rating.We have a pretty sophisticated on-boarding process sincewe have to deal with risk with every merchant that we on-board, both from a regulatory compliance perspective but also from a risk perspective. We can leverage pretty much on the things that weve come to learn over the last five years, he says.We add on top the history that the merchant has with us, over the time that theyve been a customer  since this is a product that will only be offered to iZettle customers and not to anyone, he adds.The loans productis being financed by iZettle initially, according tode Geer  rather than itworking with a bank partner to provide capital for the loans. Although he saysthey may look to change how the product is funded in future, depending on how it performs and scales. Presumably even potentially ending up working with the banks who have traditionally been less than keen to loan to the segment of the business market iZettle addresses.Right now were doing it by ourselves. I would assume that if the product proves successful, which we strongly believe, I wouldnt be surprised if we tried to fund it in another way. I think time will tell. But if we get the advance big enough and get it across multiple markets I think were going to need to rethink how we fund this, he tells TechCrunch.The initial launch is being funded by a new round of Series D finance for iZettle, also announced today. The round of 60 million ($67M) is led by priorinvestors Intel Capital and Zouk Capital. Existing investors Creandum, Dawn Capital, Index Ventures, Northzone and 83North also participated in the round.The Series D investmentwill also be used for continued growth focused on iZettles existing products. The market is far from saturated, argues de Geer. We have a great position in the European space and also LatAm that we can grow significantly in all the markets where we current play. There are also new markets. Were currently in nine markets in Europe. Theres still a few to cover.Does it have any designs on entering the U.S. at this stage? Europe remainsvery prioritized for iZettle, says de Geer, buthe adds its not ruled out launchingover the pond. Were still looking into the U.S. market and the potential of launching in the U.S. Nothing has been decided, he notes. In the U.S. there are of course more rivals to contend with  such as Square, a companyde Geer names as the rivaliZettle shares most businessDNA with.Meanwhile, here in Europe, yesterday another of iZettlesrivals in the mobile payments space, SumUp, also pulled ina new tranche of financing  announcinga 10 million expansion to its fifth round, frominvestors includingBBVA Ventures, Groupon and American Express. SumUp tells TechCrunchit now has more than 300,000 customers, and is anticipating breaking even next year.Itslatest funding will be used toexpand onto iZettles home turf of Sweden this year, along with another unnamed market thats switching toEMV payments as its market standard later this year. Those two new additions will bring SumUpsoperational count to 15 markets.Also on the slate for itsnew funds: anew proprietary NFC card terminal model thatscompatible with Apple Pay. Itsays its currently testing thisin a closed beta, with no announcedtimeframe for shipping it to merchants yet.iZettlehas already launched a product in the U.K. which supports Apple Pay and other contactless payment solutions.We see both Apple Pay and Samsung Pay as the first true mobile payments play that we believe will fuel this growing industry, notesde Geer.iZettle isnt breaking out customer numbers at this stage but hesays its making a conscious decisionto expand its product portfolio  via the new small business financing offer  in order to continue growingthe business, rather than driving for profitability at this point. Is that a necessity, given the small margins in the mobile payments space (one of the reasons that,historically, banks have focused their efforts onmonetizinglarger business entities)?Yes and no, says Geer.Its fair to say that there are other products with better margins [than payments] but still I would say that the current product has really taken us to a position where we can decide whether we would want to be profitable or whether we want to continue growing, obviously with a loss.I think we are at that junction. I think this [Advance product]justmakes a lot of sense. Were so heavily regulated, and we can use that regulation to actually launch similar products. And solve problems in the same kind of merchant category were currently in.