
Tom Seo is an investor at Envision Ventures. Earlier this month, J.P. Morgan announced a strategic partnership with OnDeck Capital tooriginate, underwrite, and distribute loans targeted specifically at small businesses.As evidenced by a 28% single-day spike in OnDecks share price, this announcement clearly is a big deal to one of the leading FinTech companies today, and has major implications for the future of alternative lending.But before scrutinizing this specific agreement, its worth revisiting a passage from Jamie Dimonsannual letter to J.P. Morgan shareholders in 2014:There are hundreds of startups with a lot of brains and money working on various alternatives to traditional banking. The ones you read about most are in the lending business, whereby the firms can lend to individuals and small businesses very quickly andthese entities believeeffectively by using Big Data to enhance credit underwriting. They are very good at reducing the pain points in that they can make loans in minutes, which might take banks weeks. We are going to work hard to make our services as seamless and competitive as theirs. And we also are completely comfortable with partneringwhere it makes sense.The last sentence is key, and is one that I brushed aside until spoke with a small business banker this past summer.During the conversation, I asked the bankerthe head of small business lending at a major US retail bank whether he saw the emergence of technology-enabled alternative lenders as a threat to his business unit. And while he admitted that this could well be the case in the long run, he mentioned thatat least today, we [the traditional banks] have all the leverage.To those coming from the Tech side of FinTech, that statement may come across as arrogant. That said, I think he has point, and that eschewing partnerships altogether may turn out to be overly naive. Consider the following (note that these points are specific to small business lending):While the points above may appear as issues that need to be addressed separately, theyre ultimately driven by the fact thatincumbent banks own data of economic value, while alternative lenders dont. Because the J.P. Morgans and Bank of Americas of the world are sitting on troves of account (i.e. balances, inflows / outflows), spending (i.e. transaction-level purchases), and risk (i.e. delinquency, write-off) data, theyre able to underwrite credit with more predictive certainty and confidence. Not only that, but because these institutions tend to be highly diversified, theyre theoretically able to assess a single borrowers creditworthiness based on metrics captured from a variety of bank-offered products.With greater confidence around future outcomes, banks can afford to offer loans and lines with longer maturities, price products a lot more competitively (i.e. avoid having to tack on an excessive uncertainty premium), and better forecast capital buffers required to hedge against future losses. And because these advantages ultimately lead to better unit economics to borrowers, banks can afford to cherry-pick the most creditworthy borrowers within each risk band. So for the incumbents, the issue is more about integrating disparate sources of data and systematizing the risk assessment and underwriting processes as much as possible. Difficult, but certainly doable.Alternative lenders, on the other hand, have to work with rudimentary datasets that are (1) not comprehensive and (2) non-proprietary.Unless the OnDecks and Lending Clubs of the world start offering direct deposit accounts to capture meaningful cash flow metrics, theyll struggle to out-underwrite traditional banks at their own game merely with readily available FICO and TransUnion scores.And for the alternatives that claim to be able to assess risk based on non-traditional (namely social) data, the issue is that these types of data tend to be publicly availablethus failing add much to sustaining competitive advantage in the long run. Its also difficult to get excited about a company that relies too heavily on its ability to run advanced analytics on commodity metrics, as history suggests that companies betting on technology as the sole competitive differentiator tend not to succeed over time.With this in mind, it makes sense that incumbent banks have the leverage today, and that alternative lenders are actually the ones relying on partnerships for survival. In addition, if you factor in the public backlash major banks could face for charging exorbitant interest rates, you can see why OnDeck shares explodedits incredibly difficult to convince banks to embrace a business model that has yet to be proven in the long run.However, this isnt to say that the big banks are always going to win. My prediction is that once the alternative lending market reaches some sort steady state, which could involve a few more blockbuster partnerships and non-competitive lenders exiting the market, three things will happen: