During Twitters Q3 earnings call, CEO Jack Dorsey was joined by COO Adam Bain and CFO Anthony Noto. The call was broadcasted live on Periscope for the second straight time.Watching @jack LIVE on #Periscope: Twitter Q3'15 Earnings Conference Call https://t.co/OmEWUr78SE pic.twitter.com/SysY6zGtwA drew olanoff (@drew) October 27, 2015Growth didnt appease Wall Street, but its early days for some of Twitters latest product changes, including Moments and Polls. The company continues to tout the over billion people who are reached with tweets via means other than being logged in, like when theyre embedded on publishers sites.Dorsey explained how the company is building teams with new leads around its core products, including Twitter, Periscope and Vine. While the company is still engineering and design heavy, Dorsey says the company is still hiring (despite recent staff cuts).Regarding one of the latest product releases, Moments, Dorsey says that the company is happy with its performance, but didnt give any numbers or metrics that would paint a picture either way. The focus on Moments are getting people into them as soon as they open the app. I dubbed Moments Project Glacier, due to the fact that it intends to slow down the real-time nature of Twitter, allowing non-hardcore users to keep up. If that is cashed in on, the glacier will start moving and growth will increase.Dorsey was quite open, again, about how difficult it is to use Twitter now:We make people do a bunch of work to find accounts to follow. With Moments you can see whats most meaningful.The group briefly dipped into talking about how communities can be connected around topics like #BlackLivesMatter, but nothing specific was shared as far as new product ideas or displaying content differently.To support all of its renewed product focus, Dorsey said that Twitter will be pushing TV commercials out during the World Series, starting tonight. We imagine that those commercials will highlight the new easier to use side of the service, as well as include a peek at the humanity that is at its core. Its not the first time the company has had a commercial, with the first coming in 2012 to promote its relationship with Nascar and another in support of the London Olympics. Its most recent touted its relationship with IBM.