Jack Dorsey is givingabout a third of his Twitter shares  or 1% of the company  back to Twitters employees, he said in a tweet today.A move like this is likely at least partially geared at improving morale at Twitter, which has gone through a major transition  with both a big round of layoffs and Dorsey returning as CEOhappening in the past few months. Employees are certainly always looking for value at the places they work, and offering some extra shares at a company like Twitter certainly helps. I'm giving ~1/3rd of my Twitter stock (exactly 1% of the company) to our employee equity pool to reinvest directly in our people. Jack (@jack) October 23, 2015As for me: I'd rather have a smaller part of something big than a bigger part of something small. I'm confident we can make Twitter big!  Jack (@jack) October 23, 2015If a third of his shares corresponds to 1% of the company, he still owns 2% of it, which is a sizable chunk of Twitter. (Its probably a little more than that  as of the last proxy filing, Dorsey owned 3.64% of the company.) At market close, Twitter was worth $19.7 billion  making his existing stake (well assume something like 2% for the sake of simplicity) worth around $394 million.And, of course, he owns 24.4% of Square, another company worth billions of dollars that just filed to go public.But this isnt the first time hes done something like this: in Squares S-1 filing, he said he had given around20% of his equity back to Square and to the Start Small foundation, a new organization he founded to fundentrepreneurs with a special focus on underserved communities, over the past two years. Bothsomewhat unusual moves, and Dorseys contribution to the Start Small foundation dovetails with other philanthropic efforts of tech leaders like Marc Benioff.I'm excited for the Start Small Foundation to begin its work! We will start our investment with one city: #Ferguson, Missouri. #startsmall Jack (@jack) October 14, 2015Twitter now has some momentum. It just wrapped up its developer conference (mishaps aside) where it unveiled a suite of new tools and products geared toward further expanding the services footprint. It also launched Moments, its new viewcentered around bigstories on Twitter, earlier this year. And a move like this is likely to help fire up the companys employees even further.