Nathan Eagle was a Fulbright scholar from MIT, teaching at the University of Nairobi, when he had his aha moment.Specifically, Eagle was teaching a mobile phone programming curriculum at the school when he and his studentsbuiltan SMS system thatenabledrural nurses to text information about low blood supply levels to centralized blood banks. (Earlier, the nurses depended on someonewho drove from hospital to hospital, reporting back who needed what.)The system earned Eagle praise and a photo in the local papers. Unfortunately, the nurses almost immediately stopped using the system. The reason: the onerous costs of text messaging. I didnt realize it at the time, but I was basically asking them to take a pay cut, says Eagle.Indeed, in many countries, including India, Brazil, and Indonesia, one of the main barriers to connectivity is the crippling cost ofdata.Facebook reminded the world of this problem when its India-focused Free Basics program  designed to offer free Internet access to certain sitesonly was recently bannedby Indias telecom regulator, which ruled thatthepractice of charging different prices to different customers isnotacceptable.Now,Facebooksfumble looks well-timed forEagles company, Jana, which has been quietly providingfree, unrestricted Internet access in emerging markets.How it works: through an Android app by Jana called mCent, users agree to immersive advertising experiences, like spending five to 10 minutes using Amazons app, in exchange for 20 to 50 megabytes of data.Another advertising client of Janas, thepopular, India-based music streaming service Saavn, gives customers 10 free songs that they can listen to any time they want. The ideais togive those usersa sense that their phone is much more than a two-way communication device; its a music player, too.Little wonder Eagles85-person, Boston-based outfit seems to be taking off fast, even while its not a young company. In fact, it took seven years to build out of Janasinfrastructure, a project that ended in 2014, says Eagle. NowJana is integrated into the back-end billing systems of 311 mobile operators across 93 countries, and Eagle says 30 million people have enjoyedfree internet care of its partnership agreements.Audaciouslythough not unconvincinglyEagle argues that Jana can provide free connectivity to up to4.5 billion phone numbers, which is the sum total of everyone with a SIM card from one of its mobile operator partners.Investors certainly seem excited about that possibility. Janais today announcing $57 million in Series C funding led by new investor Verizon Ventures, with participation from earlier investors Spark Capital and Publicis Groupe.The round brings Janas funding to $95 million; it also sees Tim Armstrong, the CEO of TechCrunch parent AOL, joining its board as an advisor.Wed happily play that down that appointment, owing to perceived conflicts of interest. But Eagle says Armstrongs involvement was key for him, considering Janas ambitions. We have a world-class engineering team, but the heart of our business depends on advertising. We need to start building our sales organization, and Armstrong basically pioneered digital advertising, dating back to his early days at Google. (For those who dont know, Armstrong spent roughly a decade at Google before joining AOL, acting as president of American operations and looking after both advertising sales and relationships with publishers.)MaybeArmstrong is key. Certainly, Jana will need all the help it can get, with competitors likeGoogle and Facebook to battle as both tech giantslook harder at emerging markets for growth.For now, however, the companys prospectsseemspretty bright regardless.Asked if Jana has ever been profitable, Eagle says it has been during some quarters.Asked about the companys margins, he says, We can drive a lot of revenue. Youd be surprised.