While general sites likeFacebook, Twitter and Google stake their claims as news portals, apps focusedsquarelyon reading news continue to duke it out.The latest development comes from SmartNews, a popular app founded in Japan that competesagainst the likes of Flipboard and Nuzzel in the news recommendation and aggregation space. The startupbehind it has raised $10 million to expand its presence in the U.S  specifically to staffupits San Francisco office. Its on the hunt especially for machine learning and data science specialists to continue honing its recommendation algorithms, co-founder Kaisei Hamamoto tells me.SmartNews, which now has 10 million downloads and 1 million monthly active users in the U.S., says that the$10 million in funding was made on a pre-money valuation of $320 million. As a point of comparison, Flipboard was last valued at $800 million back in was December 2013, when it last disclosed fundraising(Flipboard has raised just over $160 million to date). SmartNews itself confirmed a $100 million valuation in October last year, meaning that it has tripled in the last six months.SmartNews described thislatest injection asa bridge round to me, made ahead of its Series C. Comes from previous investors,led by games company GREE, with participation also from Globis Capital Partners, Atomico, Mixi and Social Venture Partners. Hamamoto and his co-founder Ken Suzuki are currently in the U.S. raisinga larger Series C round, as well as signing the final details for a new office space. To date, SmartNews has now raised $50 million.SmartNews move into the U.S. and the new fundingcome on the back of a strong year for the startup. In addition to its1 million MAUsin the U.S. since launching a U.S. edition in October 2014, it has around 4 million MAUs in Japan, where it launched first.That popularity is also being played out in the app stores, where over the last several months SmartNewshas managed to remain consistently in the top 10 in Apples App Store and Google Play, according to App Annie figures. In doing so, it has more often than notoutranked more higher-profile rivals like Flipboard.The companys co-founders believethat partof the reason for SmartNews growth is because of how the app has been built. Manyaggregation service will claim to have intelligent algorithms directing what articles get recommended to users; SmartNews claims its are better.The machine learning-based recommendations focus notonly onwhat you click on to read, but where you pause when you are browsing in the app, and what people read and pause near when they like the same things you do, comparing all of this against a massive trove of articles, to deliver to users a clean interface of things they may want to read. (Hence, the smart of SmartNews.)The algorithms, they claim, which can be fine tuned based on location and other parameters, are also why the company is able to grow quickly into so many markets  its now present in over 150  without staffing up significantly or raising enormous amounts of cash, music to investors ears, too, it seems.The news is international, but not all news apps truly are, Niklas Zennstrom said in a statement. SmartNews machine learning is the key to breaking through to general consumers, even the emerging/developing world on mobile: SmartNews algorithms pick whats trending and culturally relevant in different countries and regions.This is the breakthrough needed to scale news delivery to billions of mobile devices.What SmartNews doesntneed to work is your social graph. In other words, no logins to Twitter and Facebook. This has a few advantages. One is just in terms of the kind of results you end up getting (avoiding the so-called Filter Bubble of too-narrow information).This also means that not only is the app less dependent on third parties to propel its engine, but for those who are not happy about social networks collecting more data on them, its one less app to worry about. Interestingly, this fact also makes it attractive to another company, Google, which uses SmartNews to power news delivery in Google Now.Hamamoto also contends that another reason why SmartNews is doing so well is that it tries to position itself as an app for the general public, not journalists, or tech buffs or news junkies  a target customer triumvirate that,some believe, has been abig failing of many of othernews aggregation apps.Hamamoto is all too aware of the pitfalls ofbuilding news apps for power users: his previous app, Crowsnest, aggregatednews based on Twitter shares and RSS feeds and then delivered the results in a list.It focusedtoo much on personalisation and news junkies, he says. That wasone reason why it failed. Based on that I built SmartNews. We tryto keep our algorithms out of the way now.The other sideof SmartNews business, working with publishers, has continued to develop at the same time. Globally,the company now works with over 150 publishers. Led by Rich Jaroslovsky, SmartNewss VPof content and a former journalist himself,the company has signed onMSNBC, TIME, Buzzfeed, HuffingtonPost, VICE, Medium, Quartz, AOL, Upworthy, People, Vox, MTV News, The Verge, AP, Reuters, USA Today and Fox News.Suzuki says that over 80 of the wider pool of publishers get at least 1 million pageviews  still an important metric for ad-based businesses  each per month via Smartnews. (Some get significantly more, some get much less.)Its on the publishing side that SmartNews will be focusing its monetizing efforts.For now, SmartNews only revenue generation has been in the form of a small roll out of ads in its app in Japan. These run both near stories in SmartNews stream, as well as alongside stories when you click to read them. SmartNewss take is to make ads relevant to the content (eg, food ads alongside food articles), and to only take a cut when the ads are in the stream (alongside articles, the publishers get all the proceeds).The other area where the company will be turning on sales soon are in subscriptions and paywalls.A lot of publishers are interested in subscriptions, and they have been having a hard time developing something themselves, Hamamoto says. We are very open to launching something like this. He says its likely to be based around the idea of a monthly rate, which would let users pay for specific channels dedicated either to a subject, or to a specific publisher.The ads are not likely to launch in the U.S. until there are more MAUs, while the subscriptions will probably be turned on later this year, Suzuki says. Its a big part of the reason why we are moving so fast.