The war continues apace in the world of wearablefitness trackers. Jawbone  which makes fitness trackers, speakers and Bluetooth headsets  has filed a counterclaim against Fitbit in a patent infringement case broughtby the latter companyagainst its rival in September.In the countersuit  embedded below along with Fitbits patent suit Jawbone denies all Fitbits infringement allegations and callsthesuit a frivolous misuse of Fitbit patents.Fitbit is knowingly and willfully misusing its patents as part of itsefforts to protect its market power, Jawbone writes in the counterclaim filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Both in this case and in a concurrently filed casein Delaware, Fitbit alleges that Jawbone infringes three of its patents. Theinfringement allegations in both lawsuits are plainly meritless, and Fitbit had no reasonable basis for bringing either case.In a separate statement, Jawbone says its continuingto pursue three of its own prior legal actionsagainst Fitbitover its own claims of patent infringement; stolen trade secrets; and an ITC injunction.Fitbit has responded in kind, referring toJawbones misguided attempt for publicity and lack of performance:We have been able to successfully compete in a competitive market by providing consumers with products they want at price points they find attractive, a spokesperson said. These allegations are unfounded, and yet another misguided attempt for publicity in order to deflect attention from Jawbones own lack of performance. Fitbits primary focus is and continues to be on delivering innovative products and services that empower people around the world to reach their health and fitness goals.The news comes on the same day that Fitbit is expected to report its quarterly earnings.The legal actionsunderscore the ongoing acrimony between the companies in an already-crowded market that,in the lead up to the holiday sales season, is facing a fresh wave of competition from established brands likeApple with its WatchandMicrosoft with its own Band.Here is a brief timeline of the events as theyve unfolded between Jawbone and Fitbit:The antitrust counterclaim filed by Jawbone in one of the pending Fitbit patent suits outlines how Fitbits recent patent cases against Jawbone are baseless and filed to thwart competition. The counterclaim also highlights Fitbits campaign to misappropriate Jawbones most important assets  intellectual property and trade secrets  as part of its unfair competition, the company said in a statement. Jawbone is determined to move forward with the anti-trust case, its trade secret case in California Superior Court and its International Trade Commission Complaint for which a hearing is scheduled for May 9, 2016. Jawbone believes that when all of the evidence is weighed, the remedies and damages Jawbone is seeking will be granted  including, in the ITC matter, the injunction to prevent virtually all of Fitbits wearable products from being imported into the United States.The market for wearable health tracking devices is still relatively young and nowhere near as ubiquitous as that of smartphones. For that reason, there is a lot to potentially play for here. But for all of them, there is also a gamble, sincemuch bigger companies are only now moving into this area in ernest.Today, Fitbit has a market cap of $8.4 billion and is one of the leadersin the area offitness tracking wearables. Jawbone remains private,raising nearly $820 million from investors. But with $300 million of that coming in the form of backing from BlackRock, and some very long delays on its most recent devices, some have questioned the companys current state of health.Updated with response from Fitbit.