For years, online shoppers have used a number of tools to help them find the best deals, ranging from web browser add-ons that checkfor availablecoupon codes to standalone price comparison services. A new website called Jet.com, launching today, is offering another option forprice-sensitive shoppers: simply visitits site and it will guarantee the lowest prices across some 10 million items.Once there, the site also offers a variety of tricks Jet.com shoppers can use to save even more,including filtering by smart (read: cheaper) items, opting for a different form of payment for extra savings, or even agreeing not to return an item in exchange for a discount.While consumers might not fully understand why these tricks work, the hope is that theyll be lured in by the potential savings. In fact, specifically targeting the budget shopper is how Jet.com aims to scale its business in the shadow of Amazon.com, eBay and other onlinemarketplaces which are today shopped more for the convenience of buying online and the accompanying fast ship times, but are now understood to not always featurethelowest prices.If anyone is brave enough  or crazy enough  to challenge Amazon, its Jet.coms founder and chief executive Marc Lore. In 2005, he started an e-commerce site aimed at moms withDiapers.com, and later expanded thebusiness to other verticals, including online grocery store Soap.com and pet store Wag.com. Five years later, he sold his company Quidsi Inc. to Amazon for $545 million. The takeaway, says Lore, is that helearned how to build a brand customers are passionate about, and how to create a consumer experience customers are willing to pay a premium for.However,he also learned that most customers had a hard time over-paying for a product. And thats where Jet.com comes in.With Amazon Prime, Google Shopping Express, eBay Now, [Walmarts] ShippingPass and ShopRunner  everyone was chasing the same customer  the customer willing to pay a premium for service, Lore explains. I saw a big opportunity to go after the much larger segment of the market, which was people who cared about saving money. So I came up with this idea where consumers could save 10 to 15 percent below the lowest prices online.How Jet.com makes that happen partly involves its business model which relies on membership fees ($50/yr.), similar to how wholesale clubslike Costco or BJs operate. But it also has to do with proprietary technology that Lore says worksmore like a real-time trading system instead of a traditional e-commerce site. This software allows Jet to show customershow to save more right whentheyre shopping and filling their basket.Jet.com knows when things can be shipped together in order to save more money, and makes this transparent to the customer on its site by highlighting those items and the associated discountsthrough the use of search filters and icons that identify smart savings.To the consumer, the website issimple to use  you add things to your basket and save more as you shop. But under the hood, its much more complex.In addition to returning the commissions it earns from third-party sales back to the customer in order to bring prices down, Jet.com also understands how to update prices in real-time based on the underlying cost involved with getting the product to the customer in question, based on whats already in their shopping cart.Forexample, a customerplaces a baseball bat in their shopping cart and then looks for a glove. Jet knows that some gloves can be shipped together with the bat from a warehouse closer to the customers home thanothers. It identifies these gloves on the site with a smart cart icon. Customers can then pick the smart cart items instead, in order to save at checkout.This ability to leverage an understanding of the logistics involving with shipping individual items is only one way Jet customers save money. In other cases, customers may opt to choose a different payment method to save more, or can agree that they wouldnt return an item for an additional discount. And soon, Jet will introduce an option to slow down shipping for harder-to-fulfillitems for even moresavings.Jet.com is currently fulfilling around a third of orders itself, while anotherthird are handled by its partners and the rest are handled by a concierge service which involves Jet buying the items on a retailerswebsite then shipping them directly to the customer. This service is meant to be a temporary stop-gap while Jet brings itsretailer partners on board. However, for the time being, the concierge service  which is used when Jet doesnt have the inventory available  means Jet is burning through its funding in order to meet the customers needs and quickly ship their items.To date, 2,200 retailers have signed up to sell through Jet.com including NewEgg, Barnes & Noble, Lenovo, Asus, Dell, Harper Collins, Bluefly and others, but only 500 have completed integrations as oftodays launch.Because of this, Jet made the decision to go ahead andcarry all the items it knows it will have access to through its partners in the future, even if that means selling those items at a loss for the time being.In tests performed by The WSJ and elsewhere, Jet offered significant savings, but it did so at a great costto its own bottom line. For example, The WSJ found that for 22 items it ordered on Jet, 12 were shipped by other retailers including Walmart, JC Penney and Nordstrom. Jets cost on the items was $518.46, but it charged just $275.55, taking a loss of $242.91. (Shipping is free on orders over $35 on Jet.com).Eventually, the plan is to wind down the concierge service, but itwillcontinue beyond just the earlyphases of Jet.coms launch, requiring the startupto have large coffers to draw from while it scales its product selection and partnerbase.In the meantime, the company is finding that not all online retailers want to work with Jet.com. Lore admits somefashion retailers like Nordstrom have already asked to be removed, and Jet has agreed. Fashion retailers seem to be less interested in us coming to their store to buy stuff even though were sending them volume, he says.The problem is that, while these retailers may not mind the sales bump that Jet could provide, they lose the possibility of building a relationship with their customers in the process.Jet.com is already thinking of how to compromise on that point, however: it will soon offer customers the option of sharing their personal email with a retailer in order to receive coupons and communications in exchange for a discount on their orders.Lore argues this option representsan advantage for Jet.com over other marketplaces.If you take a marketplace like Amazon, they dont give retailers any ability to market to retailers, he says. Here at least, consumers can opt in to that data-sharing. And because its retail partners ship directly, they can market to their customers inside the shipping boxes, too.Retail partners can also work with Jet on how they want to compete for orders, which they cant elsewhere. For instance, a retailer could say they dont want to split orders or ship really long distances. (Basically, they wouldnt compete on theorders that would be unprofitable for them.)Of course, tobuild a company like Jet.comand acquire customers takes a sizableamount of funding. But Lore believes that, despite Amazons giant footprint, e-commerce doesnt have to be a winner take all market. The overall e-commerce market is about $300 billion today, he says, but by 2025 it will reach $1.2 trillion.So basically, four times the size we are today  thats another $900 billion dollars coming online. And I think a lot of those dollars will be from people who do care about saving money, he says.[Jets] value proposition is very simple: you spend $50 per year and you save hundreds of dollars relative to the lowestprices online. And if you dont save at least $50 per year, Jet refunds your money.Jet.com has already raised $220 million and is reportedly planning to raise $300 million more over the next five years, alsoaccording toThe WSJ, potentially raising the valuation from $600 million to $3 billion during the process.It has spent $40 million so far on inventory, 300+ hires, warehouses in New Jersey, Kansas and Nevada, and other startup costs. Generally speaking, overhead expenses for a company like Jet could reach $150 million per year, Lore noted, though hes trying to keep Jet under that. In addition, the company is spending $100 million on ads, including a TV campaign starting in September. Plus, it gave early adopters free 6 and 12-month trials and is launching now with free 3-month trials. Its also giving away JetCash that lets you save as you shop on merchants sites elsewhere on the web.Thats a lot of spending, and Jet hadnt even publicly launched until now.There are already some 100,000 customers who have been piloting the site ahead of todays debut, but for Jet to be successful, it has to reach a much largeraudience.Lore says that Jets model works when itsells $20 billion in products per year, which it hopes to do by 2020. At that point, it would have 15 million paying customers, meaning $750 million in membership revenues.It will take a lot of capital to get to $20 billion, but I think its important forinvestors to know that upfrontthats why were being super transparent about what it takes to do this, he says.That has led to claims that Jet.com seems to harken back to the dot-com boom era where companies operated at giant losses ahead of breaking even, or becoming profitable. At the very least, everyone agrees that Jet.coms growth tactics are going to be extremely expensive. But for Jet.com investors, the siteseems a risky  but not insurmountable  bet.After all, e-commerce itself is a proven (and still expanding) category, plusthe founder has significant e-commerce experience  not onlyin competing with Amazon but alsoworking inside Amazon. Meanwhile, Jet.com promises to deliver an experience Amazon cant easily replicate. Even thoughAmazon has the funds to develop a similar technology if it wanted to, implementing it would mean having to scrap some of itsexisting tech in order to implement the savings component at the basket level. And thats easier said than done.NotesJeff Crowe, managing partner at Norwest Venture Partners, a Jet investor, Jet is worth the risk because the stakes in e-commerce are huge, Jets approach is completely innovative, and the team executing that approach is top-notch.Making comparisons to the dot-com boom era is good for generating headlines, Croweadds. In the case of Jet, the size of the market opportunity, the maturity of the business model, the scalability of the technology, and the experience of the team are all vastly different from companies in the late 90s, he says.In addition,Jet is after a different kind of shopper  not the one whos paying for the conveniences and perks that come with Amazon Prime, but those who are comfortable paying membership fees at brick-and-mortar wholesale clubsin exchange for savings.That said, there are still a lot of unknowns around Jets potential, risky bet that it is. Its unclear how Amazon will respond if they see Jet as a threat  it certainly played hardball in the past leading to the Quidsi deal. Its unclear if Jet shoppers will think the savings are worth the membership cost, or if theyll find the product selection extensive enough. And finally, its unclear if Jet.coms odd assortment of tricks to bring the costs of products down will ultimately win over customers, or ultimately just confuse them.