A startup comprisedof a trio ofex-Google engineers is doing something Google has roundly failed to do: make Android compelling on larger-screen devices liketablets and even PCs.Jide Technology, which wasfounded in 2014 andraised $1.6 million on Kickstarter last summerwith a pitch to build the worlds first true Android PC, has tweaked the platformto make it a little more like Windows  adding a taskbar andsupport for multiplewindows where different chunks of app content can be positionedand peeked aton-screen, or maximized for full screen use.The idea being to improve productivity when using Androidon larger-screen devices.Jidelaunchedits custom engineered Android version, RemixOS, in alpha as a free download in January this year and now has hadmore than one million downloads, according to co-founder David Ko, speaking in an interview with TechCrunch.The idea is it feels like a normal PC environment, he says, demoing the software. Its like Windows. Theres a file manager, you can drag and drop  just like a normal PC.The first hardware productrunning RemixOS was a two-in-one tablet (pictured below) that comes with a keyboard, which launched about a year ago  more as a concept device to show off the platform.A crowdfunded $70 mini laptop ($40 to Kickstarter backers) followed, now selling via Amazon. Then at CES this year,Jide released the OS as a free download.The idea is very simple. Look at the history of Android. It started off roughly nine years ago, started with a cell phone, evolved into tablets, TV and then you get wearables as well as last year they came up with Android auto. All of them has one thing in common  theyre all for consuming content. I think its a natural progression that Android will move into the productivity space, says Ko, discussing Jides thesis on productivity and mobile devices.Look at it in the next five, ten years. What about the next billion people coming online  the next five billion people coming online. Most likely theyre going to be using a Android smartphone. So the Android ecosystem will get stronger and stronger and people, particularly in the emerging market when they first come online they will say Android is the computing platform.'So we believe that the future of the computing platform is going to be Android, headds.While, in recent years,PC sales have declined andlaggedfar behind the growth insmartphones (albeit mobilesgrowth engine is alsoslowingas mature markets are now saturated with smartphones), Ko says Jide isnt banking on a renaissance in PC sales, per se.Rather, they are countingon the broader concept of a mobile productivity space  so people making use ofdifferent types of mobile devices (e.g. laptops, mini laptops, two-in-one tablet-plus-keyboard combinations)  which can offer the promise of greater efficiency, so long as theres alarger screen in the mix.We have seen last year tablet sales have been dropping but the fastest growing segment is actually two-in-one form factor [devices], notes Ko. It grew 200 per cent last year in 2015 and this year the projection is going to be another strong growth in this segment. So we believe that the large screen form factor people can just bring one device  instead of bringing multiple device.A lot of people use tablets for consuming content Why cant your tablet be your primary device as well? he adds.Last year it was a very clear signal;iPad Pro came out saying tablets can be a productivity device. We also had Googles Pixel C also coming out with a keyboard.In TechCrunchs review of the latter device, we noted that whats missing is a split-screen view in Android and thats a shame, given that the screen would be perfect for that. So Jide is stepping into that productivity gap to provide the multi-screen windows that allow for an improved multitasking experience on Android.The way that I looked at it is Google is sending a very clear signal that Android can be a productivity space, adds Ko, again referencing the Pixel C. Its telling developers, telling the world that the next version of Android most likely will have all the features that a PC would have.But whyisnt Google doing what Jide has done with Android? Ko argues this is because the company is now simply too large to develop features fast enough versus a small fleet-of-foot startup  noting, for instance, that Android now only gets one major version update per year versusthe half-year upgrade cycle ithad in earlier years. A startup can justmove faster, he adds.A startup can also put monetization on ice while itfocuses on growing usage  which is exactly what Jide is doing. RemixOS is free to download,and Jide isnot pushing alicensing model on OEMs  they get it free, too  so its not taking any revenue at this point. Although it does have investors to pay back at some point, having raised a $16 million Series A from TrustBridge, jd.com and Foxconn in mid 2015.So how, then, will it make money off of aproductivity-tweaked version of Android? (Assuming, of course, its not simply hoping to innovate its way back to the Mountain View mothership via the acquisition route)On this, Ko says he thinks advertising is a bad fit for a productivity-focused experience  for obvious (distraction-based) reasons. Likewise, he does not see mileage in creating an additional app store to try to compete with the breadth and depth of Google Play.Rather, he says the monetization strategy will likely be tied to partner priorities. And another P word: pre-installs.There are talks with some of our partners. 2016 is going to be a big year for us partnering with a lot of OEM branding using Remix OS for PC. They have given us a lot of feedback on potential monetization. First of all additional services. A lot of those additional services potentially pre-installing some of the productivity apps, and doing rev sharing, he says.Ill give you an example. For example Microsoft Office 365. One of the key things for Microsoft is they are losing out in this battle. Because GMS [Google Mobile Services] is preinstalled on all Android devices. So Google Docs, Google Spreadsheet, Google Slides, its all already preinstalled. So the next billion people when they look at productivity they will think that Google Docs and Google Apps would be their productivity. So Microsoft Office potentially will be losing out in the emerging markets.And from that logic its but a short hop to the thought that Microsoft might like to  or need to  pay an Android productivity platform to pre-install its own productivity cash cow.How the tech wheel of fortune turnsUnsurprisingly, given its own piquedinterest in Androids potential as a productivity platform (with the Pixel C)  and the fact all three Jide co-founders are ex-Googlers  Googlehas also been taking an active interest in whatJidehasbeen doing with its Remix OS, according to Ko.Google is interested in how we did it. And obviously weve validated that space as well. Weve raised $1.6 million on Kickstarter. And theyre like wait, hold on  actually people do want Android as a PC' hesays.Theyve asked us the technical side as well They did ask us how did you do this. Because Android never opened up all its APIs in multitasking and multi windows.The UX has always been lacking in a sense. The user experience has always been lacking for Google. Because, as you said,its predominantly an engineering [centriccompany]. Its functionality. Its optimization. And we spent a lot of time on the UX side, he adds.Ko reckons Google will certainly be stepping up its own productivity-focused game onAndroid this year  with aneye on raining on Microsofts Surface tablet productivity party.If you ask me I think Google is actually doing something similar to this. If I have to bet I would bet 2016 they will be launching something similar to this Clearly Pixel C was a step towards that direction, he says. And obviously the two-in-one form factors are predominantly in the Wintel solutions. Were seeing a strong growth in Wintel. And Android would like to get into that space as well.Because its huge. Were looking at 1.5 billion PC devices out there and people still do use PC. When you work you still need a laptop, you still need a keyboard and mouse. So what about the next billion people, the next five billion people. What are they going to use if they need to be productive?Mountain View does, of course, also have anotherPC effort in the form of Chrome OS. But the always-on connectivity aspect of Chromes cloud books makes for a very different proposition versus Android apps, which allow for offline utility, argues Ko.He adds that Google has also been predominantly pushing Chrome OS for the education market rather than for a general productivity/enterprise use case. And given that Remix OSis not tethered to the cloud, hesees lots of potential to grow usage in emerging markets especiallywhere a requirement that a PC be cloud-connected may well be seen as a disadvantage.China, US, Europe has strong downloads but were seeing also emerging markets, for exampleIndonesia, India, Brazil has very strong growth in the last two weeks, he adds.So what are Jides users using their productivity-tweaked Android PCs for? Turns out, ironically enough, that gaming is a pretty popular use case  despite Jidescore pitch beingproductivity.Flappy Birds, Clash of Clans Roughly 35 per cent of people were actually using it for gaming as well [as productivity use cases], says Ko. I can imagine why because Android is very dominant in gaming. Theres a lot of free games, freemium games in Android.Bottom line: An Android tablet interface that doesnt suck makesthe whole platform more appealing. So its little wonder Google is looking with interest at what the Jide guys are up to. If theyve cracked the Android experience for bigger screens, why, theres a wholenewmass market for Google to expand into.