Jobs sites are incredibly dull and boring. More often that not they are full of old or irrelevant jobs, presented in old fashioned interfaces. What is to be done? Jobspotting thinks it has the answer. Launching in the UK and Germany today (other territories are planned), this is a site and iOS app which essentially puts a modern search interface on top of results from third-party recruitment sites, and tries to learn your preferences via its algorithm.You connect your Linkedin account and set up a relevant search which trains their algorithm  to look for the right kind of jobs.Jobspotting pulls in jobs from over 20 job boards, including Xing, Monster, StepStone, Angellist, and London Startup Jobs. Currently its limited to focuses on Marketing and IT jobs, but plans to expand. It also offers company profiles.But Jobspotting has its work cut out. Its main competitor is Indeed.com which bills itself as a Google for jobs. Indeed launched in 2012 and received $5M in a Series A funding round from The New York Times, Allen & Company and Union Square Ventures. It was later acquired by one the largest staffing companies in the world, Recruit Co out of Japan, and is now publicly listed.Adzuna in the UK as had $2.8 Million in funding and looks very much like Indeed. Another competitor is Jobandtalent, which operates in Europe, the US and Latin America, and has pulled in a whopping $18.7 Million in funding. Jobspotting has received far less funding than its competitors. A total of 500,000 in financing from the Axel Springer Plug and Play Accelerator and angel investors including Dr. Stefan Gross-Selbeck, the former CEO of XING and eBay Germany and currently the Managing Director of Boston Consulting Group Digital Ventures.However, Indeed and Adzuna do not put a algorithmic layer over the jobs meta data, relying instead on users simply drilling down their preferences. Indeed focuses on volume. Jobspotting focuses what they call relevance.You say tomato I say tomato. Whatever the case, they think its different enough of an approach to give them an edge. Plus they have an app. Jobspotting was started in 2013 by Hessam Lavi (CEO, founder of BerlinStartupJobs.com), Jan Backes (CDO) and Manuel Holtz (CTO), who previously worked on the Search team at Google. Robin Haak, co-founder of Axel Springer Plug and Play Accelerator, has also joined the team as co-founder and COO.