Director Joe Dante made some of the best-loved films of the 1980s, including Gremlins and Explorers, so I was eager to ask him about how movieshaveevolved. This weekend, Dante will receive the very first Sierra Spirit Award at the Mammoth Lakes Film Festival.Shira Dubrovner, the festivals executive director, said Dante was chosen for his persistently independent attitude  he started his career in the indie world, and even when he made bigger Hollywood movies, they still had his own voice and his own sensibility and his own style.Dubrovner also praised the way that the effects in DantesInnerspace (which will be screenedas part ofthe award presentation) have held up over the past 30 years. So when I got a chance to interview Dante in conjunction with the festival, thats the subject I started with.Well, Im proud that [the effects]hold up, he said. While today, wed film the same thing with entirely computer-generated material, at the time, effects house Industrial Light and Magic built miniatures to represent the inside of the human body  Dante recalled that they ran for almost a mile of plexiglass.The days of those kinds of effects might seemto be mostly behind us, as theyve been replaced by CGI. Dante said he sees CGI as a great thing, but with drawbacks: We now assume everything is fake. For example, if a real personperformsan amazing stunt, the audience might still say, Oh, thats not a real.At the same time, hepointed toMad Max: Fury Road and Star Wars: The Force Awakensas moviesthat effectively combine CGI with practical and animatronic effects. Dante offered a similarly measuredview on the industrys move away from physical film. I love film, I grew up on film, he said.That doesnt mean hes opposedto shootingdigitally, but in his view, Film is still the best archival medium.  What I dont like is the concept that, Well, well just put it up in the cloud and it will always be there.'When I asked how a directors jobhas changedover the course of his career, Dante said,People do more directing for television than they do for features because theres less features  The jobs that are available are more likely to be on television. Still, he said, I dont think its really changed that much.