Kleiner Perkins John Doerrhopes that his firm will find itself where it has successfully brought in a diverse set of new partners  a problem that has long-troubled the venture capital industry.Kleiner Perkins has started actively working to promote diversity internally and through its portfolio companies, Doerr said. For example, the firm is going through unconscious bias training and making it available to the companies it works with. It also publishes a diversity report. It has a fellows program and, eventually, hopes to hit that 50/50 world.But in an awkward highlightduring a fireside chat at TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2015, Doerr joked thathis two new partners were so diverse I have a challenge producing their names. Doerr was referring to the firms new partnersSwati Mylavarapu, formerly of Square, and Muzzammil Zaveri, formerly of Tencent. He quicklyfollowed up on Twitter by calling it an unfortunate joke that was not funny.@kimmaicutler Friends, my apologies. It was an unfortunate joke that was not funny. I have deep respect for my partners Swati and Muzzammil. John Doerr (@johndoerr) September 22, 2015Imade it really clear even at Kleiner Perkins,where Im deeply committed to diversity, we have done more and should do more to get to a 50/50 world where everyone can make a difference, Doerr said on stage. We can be better.But the DNAof the entrepreneurs the firm has invested in hasnt really changed, though they tend to be younger, Doerr said. They fit the profile of founders like Larry Page and Sergey Brin, he said.Its pattern-matching; thats the secret sauce.The good news is you can only lose 1xyour money, and you can make multiple, Doerr said. I dont mean to be flippant. I look and say these are the hopes and dreams of entrepreneurs. Our job is to be a service provider. I want to see Kleiner Perkinshanging on to the wagon as its almost goingover the cliff  our heels are dug in. But if its not gonna work, the best thing to do is to move on. Dont waste peoples lives and careers on something that is not gonna be worthy oftheir time.Lately, he said hes excited about healthcare  including a stealth company hes invested in that he hopes will impact the industry in the same way that Google did for search. He didnt specify what the company did, but said it sought to make healthcare information useful, valuable and availableto bring change to the largest, most screwed up part of our economy.Doerr said he spends most of his time recruiting  and pointed to KP partner Mary Meeker, who it took 10years to recruit, he said. The venture capital industry is more competitive than ever, he said, and the firms goal is to bringin the next generation of leaders as partners that will make that happen.In an ideal world the future [of Kleiner Perkins] reflects the founders, the entrepreneurs were tryingto serve, Doerr said. [Well be] more diverse, more technical, and will have a pointof view of whats important, but well be open for business for the best ideas.