Weve finalized the meetups in Montreal and Toronto and we want to see you there. We originally announced the Montreal meetup a few days ago and now we have all the details. Montreal is happening on April 1 (no fooling) and Toronto is happening on April 2. Be there or be a loonie.The pitch-offs will follow our tried and true formula. Well pick 6 to 8 startups per city and they will have 60 seconds to pitch. Unless you get an email from me specifically stating you are in the pitch-off then you are not in the pitch-off. Applying is not the same as making it. That said, we want to talk to as many of you as possible so be ready with your pitches as we make the rounds. Its a great opportunity to show off your work, your ecosystem, and your city.You can apply to pitch in Toronto and Montreal and tickets are still available.See you soon!The meetup starts at 7pm and goes until 10:30pm. Tickets cost $10 and include drinks. Well have three TC representatives there and we are looking for some local VCs to judge so if youd like to sit on stage email me at john@techcrunch.com. To be considered for the Pitch-Off, please applyhere.Place: Socit des Arts Technologiques (SAT)
1201 Boul St-Laurent, Montral
Montreal, QC H2X 2S6
Canada
Time: Wednesday, April 1, 2015 from 7:00 PM to 10:30 PM (EDT)Buy tickets here.Pitch-Off ApplicationTechCrunch Meetup TorontoHIGHLINE
Thursday, April 2, 2015 from 7:00 PM to 10:00 PM (EDT)
Toronto, ONBuy tickets here.Pitch-Off ApplicationPitch-Off Competition
Participants interested in competing in the pitch-off will have 60 seconds to explain why their startup is awesome. Companies will be chosen by TechCrunch.Pitch-Off Winners
Pitches will be rated by 3-5 judges, including TechCrunch writers and local VCs. First Place will receive a table in Startup Alley at an upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt. Second Place will receive (2) tickets to an upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt. Third Place will receive (1) ticket to the upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt.And whether youre an investor, entrepreneur, dreamer or tech enthusiast, we want to see you at the event. Come one, come all. Its sure to be a night to remember.7:00pm Doors Open
8:00pm On stage interview with a VC
8:20pm Pitch-Off Competition
9:00pm Winners Announced
9:30pm NetworkingNotes
This is a 18+ event.
All ticket sales are final and non-refundable$1 from each ticket will go to the OSMO foundation, a Montreal-based grassroots non-profit supporting aspiring local entrepreneurs through initiatives like the Notman House.For more information on sponsorship packages and to discuss becoming a sponsor, please contact partner@credoprod.com