Hello startup friends! Were less than a week away from our annual mini-meetup in the beautiful city of Barcelona. Needless to say that were very excited to meet you. So whether youre attending MWC or not, you should come, have a drink and say hi on Wednesday, February 24 near Sagrada Famlia.Therell be a chance to pitch your startup as part of our pitch-off, featuring a few judges from the startup community and TechCrunch editors. Winners will get free tickets to Disrupt New York, and believe me, its a great event.And even if you dont want to pitch on stage, the meetup should be a great opportunity to meet interesting startup people facing the same challenges as you, as well as the TechCrunch team. Well be more than happy to listen to your pitches, and talk about tech and the meaning of life.So why dont you join us. Grab your tickets right here right now, and well see you next week!Date: Wednesday, February 24, 2016
Time: 19:00  22:00. Pitch-off at 20:00.
Details: with open bar and (hopefully) tapas/snacks
Location: Barcelona  Passatge Utset 14 Barcelona, Catalunya 08013 ES
Cost: 15BUY TICKETS HEREExoClick, the innovative ad network, is ranked the 4th largest ad network in the world by W3Techs, serving 155+ billion geo-targeted ads a month to a global network of 65,000 web/mobile publisher platforms. ExoClicks proprietary software offers 20+ different ad formats, optimized targeting and behavioural retargeting, access to big data statistics and strategic analysis tools to further improve ROI, data refresh every 60 seconds, day parting and 24/7 customer service. Our platform API allows developers to create their own bespoke software add-ons for programmatic processes on our platform. Visit http://www.exoclick.com for more details.Nubo by Panasonic
Panasonic Corporation is a worldwide leader in the development and engineering of electronic technologies and solutions for customers in residential, non-residential, mobility and personal applications. In 2013, Panasonic acquired Panasonic Cameramanager; an established leader in cloud-based video surveillance. This year Panasonic Cameramanager developed and brought Worlds First 4G Mobile Monitoring Camera to market; Nubo. Nubo is the first consumer product of Panasonic Cameramanager. For more information about Panasonic Nubo, please visit http://www.nubocam.comAptoide
Aptoide is one of the Top 3 largest Android App Stores in the world with more than 97 million unique users in 2015. Developers, OEMs and users choose Aptoide because of the diversity of content, rich features and flexibility. With Aptoide, you can create your own Store and manage it.