Finlands Jolla, the plucky startup thats built its own mobile OS, called Sailfish, atop the Mer open source project, is showing off its forthcoming, crowdsourced tablet here at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Its the follow up to Jollasfirst device, the eponymous Jolla smartphone, which wasreleasedat the end of 2013.So far the Jolla TabletIndiegogo campaign has pulled in more than $2.2 million from more than 18,500 backers, far exceeding the original funding target.Compatibility with Android gives the underdog Sailfish a line in to mobiles biggest app ecosystem  so Jollacan offer mobile users an alternative to Android that nevertheless gives them access to Android apps (albeit not via Google Play).The 8-inch Jolla Tablet, which the companyis continuing tocrowdfund(currently priced at$249), is running Sailfish 2.0  the first major upgrade to its software platformsince launch.TechCrunchsat down with Jolla co-founder Marc Dillon to get a closer look at the tablet and OSupdate  check out the video to see Dillon demoing the new UI.Dillonalso told us that moreJolla devices are planned, hinting ata sequel smartphone,albeit he said its not making any specificannouncements about its roadmap at this point.So whats coming in Sailfish 2.0? Most obviouslyJollas platform getsanother string to its bowto make the most of the small tablet form factor  so there are thoughtfultouches such asa Qwerty keyboard that splits into two in landscape orientation so that you can type with two thumbs without having to put the slate down; and a customizable quick settings bar located a swipe away from the homescreen, next to Jollasaggregated notificationsfeed.There are also some themed modes whichcan be toggled viaa down-swipe fromthe top of the screen. Here you can, for instance, switch between a work set up of the tabletwithapps like email and calendar foregrounded, to an after hours view with the daily grind tucked out of sight.But by far the biggest upgrade with Sailfish 2.0is how Jolla haspared back and simplified Sailfishs gesture basedUI. This is a key change.Reviewsof Jollas smartphone had identified aproblematic learning curve and sometimes confusing navigation.Andwhile Jolla has touted Sailfishsnewness and otherness as a core part of its differentiation mission, to offer choice ina marketplace dominated by Android and iOS, italso needs to offersomething people are comfortable using.Jolla has clearly been listening and is now iterating. Sailfish 2.0 pares interactionsback to a few core gestures, such as swiping up anywhere to get to all apps, or a side swipe to peek at or go back to the homescreen. Its also possible to continuously swipe to cycle through the various content screens.Meanwhile actions supported bythe application covers  aka the small cards representingopen/live appson the Sailfish homescreen  have also been simplified, so they areless matryoshka-like in terms of what users can do with them.In short, Jolla seems to have realised that less is more  and difference shouldnt bedifficult.This is definitely progress.Ithas also added a new contentscreen to Sailfish 2.0 that can be swiped in from the homescreen which its calling a partner space.Its demoing this with Deezer on the tablet, as as example, but does not yet have any partners to announce. Its had something similar onitssmartphone, offeringco-branded content from the likes of Rovio, for instance. Atablet-based partner space is obviously more generously proportionedthan what can fit on a smartphone  and cancontaina whole carousel of content.Jolla is very eager to take industrial partners right now, said Dillon, discussing how its hoping thepartner space feature will spark more industry interest in its platform and hardware.Maybe I would like to buy a package from myoperator or a retailer that includes the service, the cellular service ordata, thatalso includes my favoritecontent packages, also includesthe device, so we can bundle all of those togethers and give a premium place onthe UI thats right next to the homescreen where my favorite application, favorite content, favorite service bundle is always right available.Dillon saidSailfish 2.0will be rolling out whenthe tablet launches  likely at the end ofQ2 this year. The 2.0 update also brings stability and core performance improvements to itsplatform (I think were doing Android better than Android does now, with the multitasking and the multiple windows), along with support for Intel CPUs, which will expand the device types Sailfish can reach.Who has beenpre-ordering the Jolla tablet sofar? Backers are really varied, according toDillon. The biggest group were people who wanted to see something that was independent.That was actually the number one reason that people backed us, he said, adding: About half of the people had an existing tablet so they were wanting to replace an existing tablet.Only about around half had a Jolla phone, so we did have a lot of people that came out of the box to get this device.This seemed to be a verygood fit for us, he added, talking about the decision to make a tablet. You have to move your whole life to a mobile phone so a tablet is more of an elective kind of purchase. A lot of people use them to either consume content, or to work, or to communicate.This is the first Sailfish tablet. This is the first tablet that doesnt have an American operating system. Its the first tablet thats not dominated by a one company strategy.While Sailfish is built on an open source core, the Sailfish UI itself remains proprietary. But Jolla is aiming to move in a fully open sourceddirection  hence its call yesterday for more partners to join theSailfish Alliance.Intel and SSH Communications are the first two its talking about  the latter helping it build a forthcoming hardened version of the OS, called Sailfish Secure.I definitely envisage it in the future to be fully open source. At the moment Sailfish is not. Its powered by open. We work in the open in a lot of places, he said. When we work with our partners we can give them the source code to absolutely everything. So thats one huge advantage Getting fully open is going to require this Sailfish Alliance, so getting some more companies and partners on board. Then we can basically release everything.What we dont want is any single points of control. We want a group of companies that come together, that co-operate, that maybe have different agendas, maybe are even in some kinds of competition with each other, but can leverage one platform in order to do that  instead of closing down the walls and saying this is our strategy and were going to go as hard as we can until we fall. Because monopolies always fall.