Jon Callaghan is a founder and managing partner of True Ventures, an industry-leading venture capital firm that invests in early-stage technology firms. Were thrilled to announce that Callaghan will be joining us for an on-stage interview at Disrupt SF 2015, where hell talk about all things tech and what he looks for when investing in new startups.Callaghan is an entrepreneur at heart who has started three companies in total. In 1986 he founded his first company, Mountain Bike Outfitters, Inc., and then ventured into the venture capital business in 1991. He started that portion of his career as an associate at Summit Ventures before moving on to AOLs Greenhouse, CMGis @Ventures group and Globespan Capital before founding True Ventures in 2006.With over $1 billion in capital across five funds, True Ventures provides Seed and Series A funding to entrepreneurs in the tech industry. The company has a mission to make the world a better place for entrepreneurs, and they try to accomplish this mission by encouraging the founders vision and empowering employees, their families and their communities.There are several prominent companies in the True Ventures portfolio  companies like about.me, Automattic, Fitbit, Typekit, Blue Bottle Coffee, and many others. Theyve invested in 168 companies in total, according to their Crunchbase profile, and have brokered one IPO and acquired 46 companies in total.True Ventures has a strong portfolio of companies theyve invested in, and theyve got money to spend. Most recently, theyve participated in funding rounds for electronic components maker littleBits, health wearable startup Sano, and AI-based recruitment search tool Connectifier.Come hear Callaghan talk about his vision for the company, and what he and his True Ventures partners looks for when deciding whether to invest money in a startup, at Disrupt SF 2015. Callaghan joins an impressive lineup of speakers that include the likes of Y Combinators Sam Altman, Softbank President and COO Nikesh Arora, and Pandora co-founder Tim Westergren.Disrupt runs from September 21  23 at San Franciscos fabulous Pier 70, and early bird tickets to the show are still available to purchase. To secure your spot at this years show, be sure to head over to our ticketing page to snag your tickets while theyre still available.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.