Uber may have pulled its project to work with auto-rickshaws in India, but that isnt stoppingstartup Jugnoo from zooming ahead with its plans to turn the iconic and budget transportation service into an on-demand one.Chandigarh-based Jugnoo confirmed this week that it closed a Series B round at $5.5 million, after adding $2.5 million to the initial $3 million that it secured back in November 2015. The additional top-up was provided by existing investorPaytm, the Alibaba-backed billion-dollar mobile payments firm, with participation from Snow Leopard, another existing backer. The company raised a $5 million Series A round last summer.Jugnoo was launched in November 2014 with the basic premise of making Indias ubiquitous auto-rickshaw drivers more efficient, and plugging consumer transportation demandsat the same time. The service is currently operational across 22 cities, where it claims two million users, around 6,000 drivers and 30,000 completed rides per day.In an interview with TechCrunch, co-founder and CEOSamar Singla said that he took inspiration from the fact that auto-rickshaw drivers are just 30 percent utilized, even though they are responsible for a whopping 30 million rides per day across India.Wewant to drive utilization up to 60 percent for drivers, he explained, then the loyalty forms.Pointing out that the service isnt handing out deep discounts to consumers and overly generous subsidies to drivers  asUber and local Indian rival Ola are  Singla said he believed that by aiding a driver in their daily work  complementing their existing street rides by providing on-demand customers, particularly during off-peak hours the service will take a little more timeto scale, but it will do so based onanswering needs not the color of money.While Uber did, and Ola still does, offer rickshaws, he argued that their method of subsidizing drivers doesnt necessary provide them with the rides that supplement their existing workload, particularly during quiet times of the day.While he believes that Ola isnt overly focused on auto-rickshaws because it cannibalizes its more expensive taxi rides business, the Jugnoo chief does foresee a time when both Ola and Uber willlook harder at the auto-rickshaw space.Uber and Ola are for the top 20 percent of people, were for the bottom 80 percent, Singla added.Top priority for this year is to expand Jugnoos presence into an additional 25 cities in India,most of which will be second-tier. Like Uber and Ola, the company keeps its operations lean  using launch teams and two-to-three person offices once a city is established  but 100 new employees are likely to come aboard to help with the expansion, further develop the tech, and generally support the scaling of the business.Transportation on-demand services are often talked about for the potential to be anything on-demand companies. Indeed, Uber just expanded its standalone food app in the U.S. and Ola has long run a similar service in India. Jugnoo did utilize its network for delivery services, but it opted to shut that down last year after finding that demand far outweighed supply.Wehave to reach decent supply [first,]Singla said candidly. When we reach one million rides per day then well bring back delivery. Well probably diversify [further] but themarket is so huge and were so tiny. Maybe [it will happen] one year down the line.