Juno, a months-old, New York-based ride-sharing service that is planning to take on Uber,is talking with investors about a $30 million round of funding, according to several sources, one of whom said of the valuation that Junoseeking, its high.Asked to confirm, the companys cofounder and CEO Talmon Marco said last night via email, Im gonna stick to my longtradition of notcommenting on matters related to financing. Sorry. (Here, he inserted a smiley face for good measure.)IfJunogets a highvaluation despite more turbulent times for startups right now, it wont surprise. Marco sold his last company, the messaging app Viber, for $900 million to the Japanese internet giant Rakuten. Marco also cofounded and long ran iMesh, one of the earliest P2P networks.Marcoseemingly has plenty of drivers willing to join his new platform. According to one source, the companywhich targetsUber and Lyft driverswho have a rating of atleast 4.7 out of 5 stars on either platformJuno already hasa waitlist of driversthats six months long.Thats likely owing to numerous deal sweeteners that Juno is offering them, including, most significantly, equity in the company. Indeed, thecompany has said its saving half its founding shares for drivers, equity that will be diluted alongside those of Junos four founders as investors back the company. (The other threefounders,Igor Magazinnik, Sani Maroli and Ofer Smocha, cofounded Viber with Marco.)Juno also says it will take a 10 percent cut from each ride, compared with Uber, whichtakes 20 percent on average. It will have 24-hour support for its drivers. And drivers will be allowed toblock riders with whom theyve had a bad experience.In a recent interview, Marco acknowledged that Juno will have multiple features not found in Uber, but he said that  tome this is not the key thing.To me what matters the most is the fact that at the heart of Juno is a belief that its time for a ride-sharing service that treated drivers right. Its time for an ethical, socially responsible ride-sharing service. And thats what we are doing.Its the overall attitude towards drivers, he added. Its the respect and transparency in the way the company deals with its drivers, who are also owners.The company, which has been operating in so-called stealth mode in New York, has not specified an official launch date yet, but Marco said that we are slowly warming up the engine, no pun intended.Up to now, Marco has been very quiet about how Junohas been financing its operations.When weasked Marco about this a few weeks ago, he said only that the money has come fromus, friends, investors.Wealso asked why he thought itstillpossible to compete against Uber, which not only has a lot of scale at this point across over 400 markets, but also many billions of dollars in funding.When you have something good, something right, you can rely on viral distribution, on word of mouth, said Marco. Other companies pay tens of millions, even hundreds of millions [of dollars], in referral fees to drivers so theyll bring their friends. So far our referral fees paid [are]avery round number: Zero dollars.More, he continued, What are [Ubers] drivers going to get when these services go public? Zero. What are drivers going to get when self-driving cars come? They get deactivated.' As aJuno shareholder, Marco said, The driver gets to own a piece of each and every car out there.