The fight between the government and Apple is not over. While the most controversial case is now over, the Department of Justice keeps pushing Apple on another case. The government still wants Apple to unlock an iPhone 5s that belonged to a meth drug dealer in Brooklyn.In a letter today, the Department of Justice reiterated that it needed Apples help. This letter confirms that the government is appealing the judges decision as the judge had previously sided with Apple in this case.While this case isnt exactly similar to the San Bernardino case, the government is using the same argument, the All Writs Act. But the All Writs Act doesnt work if theres an alternative remedy. So the government has to justify that only Apple can unlock this iPhone.The thing is, the iPhone 5s in the Eastern District of New York case runs iOS 7. You can buy a box online for something like $300 and unlock an iOS 7 device in minutes. iOS 8 and 9 are much more secure than iOS 7.So the All Writs Act seems hard to defend in this case. According to an Apple attorney, the companys asked to do the governments work.Moreover, the two cases are very different. First, this isnt a terrorist attack. The case in New York has already been solved. The individual has confessed. So the FBI wants access to this phones data even though it doesnt need it for this specific case.Second, its worth reiterating that this has never been about just one phone. The San Bernardino case was filed publicly and made the front page of all American publications. The Department of Justice said again and again that they were asking for a favor just for this one time. And yet, here we are again, with another phone in another case.But this isnt Apples job to get access to this data on this iPhone 5s. An Apple attorney confirmed that the company will file a response brief on Thursday. In this brief, you can expect the company to raise some issues regarding this case. Why does the government need Apples help? Who are you talking to? What steps are you taking to try and access the data on this phone?Also worth noting, Apples attorney said that the company still doesnt know anything about the secret San Bernardino method used by the FBI. The company wont sue the government to get access to the hack. Instead, you can expect software updates and new devices with increased security in the coming years.With this case, Apples and the governments positions are starting to look like business as usual. Its a whack-a-mole game  the government wants to try and find an opening to set a precedent, while Apple is trying its best to avoid getting hit by the government.