Kabbagethe online platform thatloans money tobusinesses and individuals using a wide set of online data and algorithms to measure credit-worthiness  is growing once more. The startup based out of Atlanta has raised a Series E of $135 million, and expanded itscredit facility  the money it has onhand to fulfil loans  to $900 million.Kabbageis not officiallydisclosing its valuation but from close sources we understand it now to have reached the billion-dollar mark.Rob Frohwein, Kabbages founder and CEO, said in an interview that the investment will be used to expand the companys business deeper into consumer lending, as well as internationally. Its consumer Karrot platform was launched last yearto complement Kabbages primaryloans business focused on online merchants and other SMBs.Were at the precipiceof a large expansion of Karrot, Frohwein says. Today it represents10 percent of our businessand will be between 25 percent and 30 percent of ourbusiness by next year.The Series E comes from a list of both financial and strategic investors  which, in the case of a financial tech startup can often be one and the same. The round was led by Reverence Capital Partners, a regular investor in financebusinesses; with participation also from several of the worlds biggest banks: Hollands ING, Spains Santander (via InnoVentures); and Canadas Scotiabank.The fact that the investorlist has so many international banks is significant for Kabbages future business: the company is going to use its funding to take its platform to several new markets in Europe and elsewhere, in partnership with its new backers. First up will be a product in Spain, aimed first at businesses and then individualborrowers, with further launches planned across Europe a month from now.Its also a sign of how Kabbage as well asother financial tech startups like Kreditech (which itself recentlyraised a big round), Lending Club and Prosper  have been adept in leveraging advances in big data analytics, social media and e-commerce to steal a march on incumbent lenders  that is, traditional banks  offering loans on more favorable terms and often with lower bad debt rates.Now the banks are sitting up and taking notice and hoping to tap into what these startups have built, rather than trying directly to replicate it themselves.Kabbage is one of the leading companies in the lending space, having built their technology & data platform from the ground up before they even launched to customers. Their method of using real data in the loan approval process, rather than relying solely on credit scores, is unique and innovative, Mariano Belinky, managing partner at Santander InnoVentures, told TechCrunch. With the company rapidly growing and with improved operating efficiency, our investment also makes sense from a financial standpoint. With full automation of the platform, the company doesnt have to spend as much in marketing, headcount and other operating costs to scale their business.This growth  taking Kabbage well beyond its core market of the U.S., and pushing much further into its newer personal loan product  is part of the reason why the company expanded its creditfacility so much. Before todays announcement it was only around $260 million, Rob Frohwein, Kabbagesfounder Many foundersand investors have talked about how the going is good right now forfast-growing startups to raise funding, and thats been the case here for Kabbage as well.Why $135 million? Frohweinrepeated when I asked him about the funding. Its not a lucky number or anything. We actuallyset out to raise between $75 million and $80 million, but there was a huge amountof interest. And,during the funding process, we started to get more opportunities to partner with banks to build the international business. That opens up a lot of complexity so itmade sense to raise more money now.Going forward, the large equity raise will also mean that Kabbage itself will start to participate more directly in the credit facility and loans portion of the business.Moving beyond being solely a platform provider to arrange the loans is a sign of how Kabbage has skin in the game, says Frohwein.But italso gives the company a stronger vertical position (and better margins) going forward. To date, the companys biggest revenue drivers have been around taking a percentage interest on the loans completed on its platform, as well as through licensing fees. Kabbage offers its tech as a white-label platform in Australia, for example, and there are plans to ramp up those kinds of partnerships significantly in the future. The company is on track for $100 million in revenues this year, the CEOtells me.Notably, the $900 millioncredit facility expansion getting announced today comes from a completely different mixture of banks and other financial groups, andno overlap with Kabbages equity investors, he tells me. Frohwein adds that the companys underwriting performance has been steadily improving over the years. When the company started putting out capital in 2011, it was lending $7 million a year. Now we do that in just over a day, he says.As part of the deal,Milton Berlinski, managing partnerof Reverence Capital Partners, is joiningKabbagesboard of directors.