Today is a big day forY Combinator graduate Kamcord, after the San Francisco-based startupannounced a $10 million Series C round led by Time Warner, and a move that expands its streaming focus from mobile games to any app.Kamcord last raised money in December 2014 when it scored $15 million from Chinese Internet giant Tencent, billion-dollar Japanese gaming firm GungHo and others.Kamcord co-founder Adi Rathnam told TechCrunch that the entire round was still in the bank when Time Warner approached the startup, and the timing was right because it had just begun early talks about raising again.Alongside Time Warner, existing backersTencent, TransLink Capital, XG Ventures, Plug & Play Ventures and Wargaming participated in the round, which values the four-year-old companyat more than $100 million.Its atough climate [right now,] but one thing people dont talk about as much [is that] big VCs have big funds [and are] sitting on them and only investing in companies that dont need the money,Rathnam said.Kamcord isparticularly keen to work withTime Warner group managing director Rachel Lam,he added, since she played a prominent part in scaling Maker Studios, the YouTube network that was sold to Disney for $500 millionin 2014, and understands the needs of YouTube stars,which Kamcord targets with its mobile-focused streaming service.Added to that, hes impressed by the value that Time Warner canadd.Unlike other strategic investors whichpromise synergies but take time to deliver, he said that Kamcord is already having early dialogue with operating divisions at Time Warner over ways to work together. And that leads to the second part of the companys news today  Kamcord is launching a new feature called app casting, which allowslive broadcasts from any app on a smartphone.Until now, Kamcordhas focused on mobile games, and in particular hugely popular titles like Clash Of Clans. Todayits 1millionusers canstart a broadcast from anywhere on their phone  be it Facebook, a news app or web browser mixed in with a live-stream from a standalone camera or, if on mobile, their front-facing camera.Its tempting to draw parallels with Facebook or Twitter-owned Periscope, which are trying to popularize mobile live-streaming. But Ratham said Kamcord is taking a very different approach for many reasons.Thesecompanies are all making the same mistake, he said. Thinking about live like its a social network.Live-streaming isreally hard to do. What do I say? How do I tryto be funny? It needs to be treated like a media business. Were going to enable creators to make the most compelling content via app casting.Ratham believes that the challenge of live-streaming can be offset by offering apps as a prompt. It provides some context to a broadcast, and is a prop of sorts.For example, in the case of Time Warner, he envisages that Kamcord can work with [its] publications or a sports league to help build a brand in front of ourteen audience. That might be a sports analyst reviewing a clip in real-time, or shows offering specific live content on a regular basis on mobile.Some of the projects in the works include a live-stream of Y Combinator president Sam Altman reading tech news on his phone, and a popular dating blogger live-streaming her usage of Tinder.Kamcord is very much betting on bringing existing broadcasters to mobile rather than empowering anyone in the world to live-stream like others are.Theres only asmall subset of people that can be entertaining enough to command an audience for multiple minutes or hours,not everyone will create content but we believe [consumption] can be mass-market, Rathnam said.Meerkat, which is in the process of pivoting away from live-streaming, landed huge nameslike U2 and Madonna on its service but still failed, and the Kamcord co-founder believes that therein lies the issue.Celebrities are great and very interesting; they can give you that one-day spike. But, in the case of Madonna,she might live-stream once in a while, but she wont come back regularly. What happens to the audience she drove [to a live-streaming app] the next day?Live-streamers [on YouTube or Twitch] can stream many times a week. They get how hard it is. Youcant stare at a camera and be interesting, but we think app casting can make you interesting, he explained.In February, Kamcord introduced monetization for live-streamers via in-app purchases that viewers can buy. Rathnam said thats fastapproaching a $2 million annual recurring revenue, with purchases growing at 40 percent each month. It isnt just for those with a huge audience either. Two teenage twin boys who live-stream games from their bedroomin Australia are on track to make well over six figures from fans buying virtual goods on Kamcord. Yet their account XtremeGamez  has just 10,000 followers on the service.Ultimately, this move will live or die based on the content that Kamcord can lure to its platform. So far, with Twitch staying away from mobile withits focus on hardcore games and YouTube still known for being a video repository, Kamcord doesoffer something different, something built specifically for mobile.The pitch to streamers is simple:Kamcord doesnt want to replace YouTube or Twitch; it instead wants to offer a better way to interact with audiences in real-time and on mobile  and theres money that can be made there, too.Have you ever seen a YouTube comment section? Rathnam said, in what couldprobably be a one-line pitch to any broadcaster.