Kamcord, the YC-backed company that enablesgame recording onmobile, is the latest company to jump on the mobile live-streaming bandwagon after it added the feature to its Android and iOS apps.While Meerkat and Twitter-owned Periscopeare increasing awareness of live-streaming, both for sharing content and consuming it, the game streaming business  which is dominated by YouTube and Twitch  is still very much a desktop affair. This Kamcord update takes things decidedly in the direction of the future. The apps already allowedusers to record their gameplay for upload later, but now you can tune in and watch top Kamcord players  an initial 22 partners boasting a combined8 million YouTube subscribers are aboard live-streaming strut their stuff in real-time.Initially, though, streaming is only possible via the web app for creators, so it isnt open for everyone, but Kamcord told us that it is looking to add native live-streaming to its Android app very soon. That feature will be harder to implement on iOS, since it is not supported yet. But Apple is preparing to introduce thefirst native replay feature that developers can take advantage of  ReplayKit in iOS 9 so it couldcome to the iPhone and iPad later.In addition to todays new feature, Kamcord also revealed that it has surpassed 1million registered users on its service. That user base has recorded over 50 million videos, the company added.Kamcord co-founderAditya Rathnam told TechCrunch that Kamcord is attracting interest from star gamers because they feel like second-class citizens using other platforms. (Rathnam didnt name names, but, um Twitch and YouTube!)These stars  for example Kamcord creatorChief Pat, a Clash Of Clans specialist with 1.4 million YouTube subscribers  are drawn to the service because advertisers come first on other platforms and theyrefrustrated that they cant activate their audience on YouTube, Rathnam said.Kamcord wants to simplifythe current setup for them, which heexplained, requires creating a YouTube video, promoting it on Twitter and using Twitch for live-streaming components.Not only that,and better audience engagement, but Kamcord is also working on ways to allow creators to monetize their audience directly. That might include the option for fans to pay to stand out in the comment section, or for closer interaction with stars,Rathnam explained.Other top creators and I have wanted a dedicated mobile gaming community for a long time. Keeping fans happy is our number one priority and theres no doubt that fans are going to have a blast interacting in real-time on Kamcord streams. Theres just so many more ways to form a stronger connection when the conversation goes both ways, said Chief Pat in a statement.Kamcord, which raised $15 million last December, sees 40 percent of its usage from the U.S., with a further 30 percent from Asia, but theres potential to grow that latter figure in mobile-centric Asia.The company has already upped its focus on Korea and Japan with dedicated offices in both countries, and it said that China will be its next location for a local presence. That focus on those three markets makes sense: Japan remains the country with the highest spend per app download, Korea boasts the worlds fastest mobile internet speeds, and China is the planetslargest smartphone market.