The Tinder-fication of app interfacescontinues apace. Weve now seen Tinder for shopping, for reading news articles, for choosing which outfit to wear, for fashion price-tracking, forsorting your iPhone photos, for real estate, for gleaning travel intel, and even for choosing whichpet to adopt(well if its good enough forhuman hook-ups, why not hounds?). And thats by no meansa comprehensive list.Well heres one more:meet just launched Kander  a social photo sharing app for iOS that uses a swipe right to like it or left to dislikemechanism to allowusers to deliver snap judgementson their friends photos. So that could be a verdict on their dress sense, or food choice, or taste in music, or their new tattoo, or whatever. So long as it can be photographed and captioned, Kander lets folks vote.That voting mechanism is its main twist vs existing photo sharing giants like Instagram.The app allowsusers postasingle photo to harvestothers likes (or dislikes)  via swipe voting. Or theycan combinetwo shots intothe sameframe to makeathis or that visualpoll  sotheirfriends canvote on one or other of the two images. So which of their selfies they should post to Instagram, say, or which floppy hairstyle suits their fave celebbest,or which dressthey shouldwear out. And so on. (Its basically Hot Or Not redux. Or the now defunct Fashism but with a slicker interface.)The user can choose whether to post a photo publicly, to all Kander users, or quasi privately by limiting it to just to their own followers. They also get to set how long their photo poll will run forwith the app allowing variousincrements starting at a minimum of5 minutes or up to a maximum of 24 hours. Kander includes the prerequisite series of filters so users can tweak shots before posting.And, like thezeitgeisty digital cocktail its clearly aiming to be, Kander adds in a dash of anonymity tospice up and lubricate proceedings. All votes and any comments remain anonymous during the duration of the poll. Butwhile votes always remain anonymous, comments are unlocked after the voting period is up, presumably so anyunvarnished truths end up feeling more like tactful verdicts  whatever the numerical result of the poll.The this or that visual polling element of Kander is reminiscent of some of the functionality offeredonUrturns social expressions platform. But this is mobile first, whilethe latterhas focused on building out aweb platform. Kander is also a lot snappier, thanks to thatswipey Tinderface.Kanderisthe creation of bootstrapping, LA-based startup, with founder, friends and family savings  and the teams sweat equity  getting it to launch point. CEO AnthonyAlcazar says the ideacame to him after a formergirlfriend asked for a verdict on which dress she should wear  and apparently wasnt entirely happy with his honest opinion.Itwas atthat very moment thatI thought to myself, I wish there was a way to give and get honest opinions without the fear of backlash. Kander was born, saysAlcazar.While Kander is the first app for the startup  and Alcazar says its22-strong team does not include anyone with prior experience in the tech industry space  henotes theyhave brought on Michael Bryzek, co-founderandCTO of Gilt, as an advisor.His vast experience and expertise in the tech industry has helped Kander tremendously. He has advised us on boththe engineering side and business side. Our Creative Director KenyaKinski Jones and Business Development Director Ollie Spanohave secured celebrity partnerships that will definitely help for marketing, saysAlcazar.Kander is my first app and I am not a tech guy at all. I had an idea, a dream, a vision that many people believed in and now we are here. I am very thankful to thetech community for always helping, he adds.So what about monetization? The app is of course free. ButAlcazar and co see several channels for monetizing usage in future  assuming they can gain traction with their Tinder for truthful verdicts.Firstly the polling functionitself could be used to allow companies to poll people to get honest opinions on their products. So Tinder formarket research. The team is also planning to sell advertising, and  you guessed it  stickers based on celebrity personas. Brands will also be able to advertise via paiddigital stickers.