Sales pitches for products that aimto teach a new generation to learn to code arrivethick and fast in the inbox, these days. But one of the most polished entrants in this burgeoning space remainsU.K. startup Kano, which Kickstarted itsstartup coding kitbusiness at the end of 2013  raising around $1.5 millionfrom geeky parents to get the ball rolling.On Monday May 4 at 10.45am, in just undertwo weeks time, Kano co-founderAlex Kleinwill join us on stage at Disrupt NY to discuss the challenges of building a startup that involves so many pieces  literally pieces of hardware, software and even paper-based media (including, yes, actual physical stickers) are involved  so well be asking about thesupply chain, team and management logistics thatkeepall that from comingunstuck.Kano leveragesthe Raspberry Pi microcomputer as ahardware baseon which to build  constructing a coding kit that extends beyond fun, colorful plug-and-playelectronics into agamified, child-friendly Linux-based learning software environment wherekids are encouraged to learn and share programming skills. The whole kit and kaboodle if you will.Plus Kanosprimary hardware component, the Pi, recently got a big upgrade so were curiousto see howthe team isresponding tothe Pi Foundations own product evolution.Meanwhile Kanohasits own platform  the Kano OS software stack that runs on the Pi hardware which it needs must flesh out into a rich ecosystem populatedwith third-party apps if its going to keep users engaged over the longer term. More challenges there. Andmore questions.Delivering a crowdfundedhardware product without significantdelays is no mean feat either. Kleinwill likely have some tips to share and be able to talk about post-Kickstarter strategies for keeping momentum going. After all the widergoal isturning a nascent first-gen productinto a self-sustaining business. Sowhat happens afterthat comfycrowdfunding cushion has been spent?TC Disrupt NY runs May 4-6 at the historic Manhattan Center. Tickets are still available.