So much for Kanye Wests plans to make his new album, The Life of Pablo, a Tidal exclusive.The artist, who has changed his mind numerous times with regard to this latest release, has now put the album out on Tidals competitors, including Spotify, Apple Music, and Google Play Music. The move is notable because West had originally promised fans the album would never never be on Apple  a statement that ended up boosting downloads to mobile Tidals application, pushing it to the top of the U.S. App Store.After the albums launch, customers flocked to Tidal in droves, believing it was the only avenue to hear Wests new tunes. And while not all those downloads converted into paying subscribers, it certainly had an effect on the newcomer to the streaming market: the app today is the #4 Top Grossing Music application in the U.S. Apple App Store. Its also a not-too-shabby #55 Top Grossing Overall application, and a Top 20 Music app.My album will never never never be on Apple. And it will never be for sale You can only get it on Tidal. KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 15, 2016//platform.twitter.com/widgets.jsIn addition, Tidal recently reported that Pablo surpassed 250 million streamson its service in its first 10 days of release.As West said, 250 Millionthis is not regular!But if one thing has been true during the whole saga and chaos surrounding The Life of Pablos launch, its that West has consistently changed his mind. After releasingthe album to the world, the artisthad second thoughts, and pulled it offhis website. That led to thousands of complaints from customers who said they paid Pablo, but didnt receive the download. In some cases, due to billing glitches, their credit cards were even charged twice.Tidal eventually emailed fans to explain the problem, offering refunds or the chance to wait a week while West polished up the tracks to his own liking.Still, the confusion around the launch combined withthe inability forusers to get their hands on the album as promised, led to a surge in piracy. According to one report, The Life of Pablo was illegally downloaded by some 500,000 people the day after its release.Having missed the opportunity to sell to such a large number of users could have prompted West to change his mind regarding the Tidal exclusive.Or the artist could simply be indecisive. Or perhaps hes just a savvy marketer, getting pressover his every move with regard to this albums release. (Cough, cough.)That said, West did givesome indicationthat he was thinking of reversing his previous decision to keep his album off Apples service. Earlier this week, hereleased the track Famous to Apple Music as well as Spotify and Google Music.(This is the controversial song where he claims to have made Taylor Swift famous.)Still, it was unclear at the time if that tracks release was meant to just tease fans who would ultimately bedirected to Tidal to gain access to the full album, or if West was actually testing the waters outside of Tidal.Itmay be April Fools Day here in the U.S., but it looks like we have our answer. The Life of Pablo is now streaming on themajor music services.Its also worth mentioning that thismove has come at a time when Jay Zs Tidal is suing the streaming services previous owners, claiming they inflated subscriber numbers at the time of the deal.While Pablos Tidal debut could have boosted the servicesuser base, perhaps West decided that Tidals audience alone is not bigenough to make it worth keeping his album from thecompeting services.After all, being on otherservices means additional revenue  and we all know the artist needs the money, right?