Just when you thoughtthe wonderful world of digital messaging couldntget any more rich and layered, along comes another app to prove there are more ideasin the digitalsphere than can be contained withinthe average web users philosophy Justdont call Kibo a messaging app. It is in fact an iOS keyboard app for sending hidden messages within other messaging apps messages  be thatWhatsApp or iMessage or Facebook or whatever.Why would you want to do that? Perhaps your parents or siblings are snooping around on your phone. Or youre worried about message notifications flashing up on your lock screen and being read by the prying eyes of colleagues or yourS.O. Or you want to makeyour friends have to download another app just to read the beer emoji youre sending them But its probably mostuseful as an added privacy layer  like an anti-shoulder surfing screen protector for your messaging activity.Kibo solves the problem of users privacy protection when exchanging messages containing any secrets or private information, is how theco-founders explain their mission. People commonly believe that no-one can intercept their private messaging; however, their very personal messages are often seen by their friends, colleagues, and passers-by. So, we are aiming to provide a means of sending and receiving messages in a way that no-one except the sender and the recipient will be able to see and read them.Kibo isobviouslynot the first app to offer some clandestine messaging privacy theatrics to entice smartphone users. Snapchat sparked the rush to ephemeral messaging with its self-destructing picture messages which required userspressand hold to view. Theres also Confidewhich plays around with message visibility to deter screenshotting and shoulder surfing. But Kibo is a little different, given it canstraddle different message appsbecause it lives inside thekeyboard. (Apple made such things possible in iOS by opening up third party access to the system-wide keyboard last year.)Still, as with (most) messaging apps, Kibo requires both recipients have the appinstalled (and that they have affordedsystem-wide access via the iOS keyboard setting) in order to view the secret messages. Kibos privacy policy can be read here; the teamclaims it is not receiving, storing or transmitting anysensitive data  a key consideration for users when installing any third-party keyboard app. For non-iOS users, an Android version is slated ascoming soon.So how does Kibos secret message feature work? At this early stage its a bitclunky. The keyboard looks much like the stock iOS keyboard, except for a little padlock key located next to the space bar. To send a secret message the user typestheir message text, then taps on the padlock (at which point the graphic changes to anunlocked padlock), then they tap send to send whatever text they entered as their secret missive  but now its beencunningly disguised as random text chat, such as Is there a problem? or I agree. Lets shake on it.The message coding and sending process is ratheropaque at this early stage. And can be pretty confusing because theres no feedback to confirmwhether a message has beencorrectly coded or not. Providing a betteruser interface to make thisprocessclearer is somethingthe team should stick at the top of their to-do list.If you dont follow the correct coding process youll just send a plain uncoded text message oops!The process is confusedby the fact that your secret text changes into the coded text when you tap the padlock. But repeat tapping the padlock apparently cycles throughother stock secret messages (as well as prior ones, if youve typed others) so its not always clear whether you have correctly coded the text or not.I was able to receive coded messages correctly via Kibo, but managed to send what I thought was a coded secret as a plain text message  so some care is needed.To view asecret missive (when it has been sent correctly), the recipient presses on the faketext, as if they were going to copy and paste it, and tapscopy  at which point the secret message (if there is one) isdisplayed below, overlaid over the Kibo keyboard.The app also does not make it clear when thereis a secret embedded in a particular message. If it did, that wouldnt be so very secret, although the disjointed conversationis apretty big clue.Its basically the digital equivalent of passing codednotes in class  or it is, when it works.Kibo claims it is encrypting the secret messages it conveys (using symmetric encryption algorithm DES), so says it hasno access to the text thats stored encrypted on itsservers, saying only the sender and the recipient are able toread the unencrypted messages.How did they come up with the ideaof hiding messages within messages  which remains a neat idea, even thoughthe app clearly needs some UI work at this early stage After an iPhone spoiled a birthday surprise which was prepared by 15 people, is how they tell it.This prompted us to think about the forced transparency in the digital age, they write. However, the idea to make another safe messenger was considered to be short-sighted, and we decided to make a private cross-messenger add-in for all types of communications. After exploring the iOS capabilities, we have implemented a product based on an iOS external keyboard.They argue Kibo complements, rather than competes with secure messaging apps like Wickr and Telegram  since its not a private messenger itself  and can be used in any messenger, even in an insecure one, allowing the users to exchange their messages in a private and secure manner.Whos behind Kiboscoded facade? The team self describes as not a traditionalstartup  preferring to be considereda small community of innovators working together toward a common goal of protecting mobile users privacy. The two co-founders of the five-strong community are Vitaly Halenchyk and Krill Davydov. Currently basedin the U.S. they are planning to relocateto Europe.Prior to working on Kibo, which they started this April  launching the app about a week ago(and garnering more than10,000 users at this nascentstage)  they were involved with organizing education events and lectures for young entrepreneurs.Theyve mostly been bootstrapping Kibos development but do have an investor helping with costs and resources, although theyre not disclosing who it is at this stage.We took a small amount for development and nowadays all the operations are conducted under the umbrella of our investors company, they tell TechCrunch, adding: Recently, we have been issued a provisional patent application and will soon be ready for the investment rounds.For all their talk of not being a traditional startup, they are formulating a business plan for Kibo. Its a free downloadbut the plan isto monetize by introducing additional paid features and add-ons down the line.Functionality of text hiding is free and will remain free in the future. However, we are going to introduce new paid features and add-ons, but it is too early to talk about it, they note.It is indeed early for Kibo. But its a niceidea  just one that needs a little more UI polishto really shine.