Cash flow is all important for small businesses  itsthe difference betweenlife or death so it is frustrating when customersdont payinvoices up front. Nothing puts a strain on finances quite like waiting30,60 or 90 days for your money, and thats not even mentioning theresources spentfollowing up and chasingdown payment.Scenarios like this are whereKickpay, a startup that is graduating fromY Combinators latest batch, hopes tomake a difference.Kickpays service is essentially a secondary market for invoices. Companies, and in particular more-financially conscious SMEs and startups, post details of confirmed invoices which are sold to investors who can get a quickreturn on their money. The arrangement gives the seller most of their capital upfront  avoiding the painful, often critical, wait for funds  while Kickpay claimed an investor can get adouble-digital return on an annual basis.SMEs are busting their asses to make great products, but they start being a bank when doing deals with Costco orother large organizations. Kickpay CEO and co-founder Andrew McCalister told TechCrunch in an interview. Its like mebuying a latte, butpaying for it 30 or 60 days later.Kickpay plugs into a companys Quickbooks or banking software to make pushing invoices out to its marketplace quick and easy. The service uses market dynamics and a sophisticated data model  via a partnership with Wells Fargo  to generate its rates.In one example,McCalister said that a $10,000 invoice couldpay out $9,800 up front for the company needing cashflow.Investors can make 1.5-2 percent per month, he explained. Its not like a normal loan: theyre betting on when Costco will pay out, which has less risk than anSME paying back over a two-year period, for example.Kickpay has been in an invite-only beta for the past two months. WhileMcCalister declined to say how many businesses and investors areon the platform at this point, he did reveal that the service has providedmore than $1 millionfor companies.The startup previously securedangel funding fromformer PayPal, Mint and Palantir executives McCalister said the goal wasgetting their brains on board  and, after graduating YC, it willlook for engineers to build out its product. Aprimary objectiveis to make things super easyfor investors, matching them withthe right companies quickly and minimizingthe steps they take when investing.Similarly, Kickpay is seeking those with fintechexperienceto make its platform suitably robust for large volumes of transactions. Its predominant focus is on the desktop web, because it isnt for spontaneous financial decisions, but an analytics/read-only mobile appcould come in the future.Also on the roadmap ismonetization. Right now, Kickpay takes no fee butMcCalistersaid it will, in time, take a cut from both companies and investors. The exact size of that is still to be decided.The concept of Kickpay is not new and happens offline already.McCalister estimated that the size of that market alone is $3 trillion worldwide, but he believes a simple solution that caters to small companies is sorely missing.[Many of] our clients have never used the traditional alternativebecause of theterrible flow involved [such as faxing documents] or a lack of knowledge,McCalister explained. Theres awhole new market that we can reach.The startup beganwhen McCalister, originally from Scotland, saw the potential to speed up the payment process while atHeyzap, where he was director of business development. He founded Kickpayalongside StefanoBernardi,formerly with Betable, and Sean Watters, who spent time with Intuit and Yardsellr.