Facebook hasdevelopedan app platform for Messenger, but underdogrival Kik has continued its focus on putting the entire web in chat afterupgrading its in-app sidebar browser into a full-blown browser for its messaging app.The change means that Kik users can now summon a full browser inside their chats with friends. Previously the browser waslimited, since it was loadedfrom the sidebar as part of the chat window. This change translates to a more immersive experience, which lets Kiks 200 million registered userssurfthe web while talking to friends; for instanceI could listen to Soundcloud while chatting. It also gives them the option to easily share web pages and services in chats.The older experience wasmore like a browser besides the messenger, it was not particularly chat-centric, Mike Roberts, head of mobile development at Kik told TechCrunch. The new designmakes it easier to view content or browse the web.Thats important for a number of reasons. For one thing, Kiks content platform is based on HTML. The company has plans to launcha payments service this year, and subsequently introduce commerce and other services inside its app, based on HTML and the browser experience.There are also plans to expand into more immersive media, as we wrote when Kik added native video capture to its service last month. The company acquiredGIF messenger service Relay last year, and it is likely to introduce relatedservices very soon.Content is a pretty key part of the experience. Theres a lot of content coming up  we acquired Relay for a reason, Roberts said.In addition to putting more emphasis on the browser, Kik said it has begun selecting recommended content for users when they open the browser. That means that certain services  including stickers, memes and Kiks points service  will show up when the in-chat browser is opened, pushing users toward more engaging and sharable contentFacebook has opted for a federation of apps approach to Messenger, after partnering with a number ofcompanies thatcreated new versions of theirapps that are optimized for the Facebook service. Kik, however, has been there and done that, having launched a connected app SDK in 2011. The Canada-based company believesa web-based platform is more advantageousfor users.Facebook isstarting out with a platform like we did threeyears go, [but thats a] high friction sharing experience , Roberts said, referring to the fact that Messenger users must download standalone apps to take advantage of the platform. Thatwas our number one reason to shift to web: its a question of How can Ishare something without having to go an app store?'Kik, which is engaging with strategic partners with a view to developing its service via partnerships, has had its overall focus on messaging apps as platforms validated by Facebooks move, but now it is doubling down on its key differentiator: the web.