This past year something interesting happened in China. Mobile services began sprouting up without mobile apps or websites. Instead these companies  some of which even raised moneywithout a mobile app or website  went straight to WeChat, Chinas top messaging app, where they tapped into hundreds of millions ofactive users across Android and iOS.Chinese tech trends are distinctly different to North Americas but today, in a move that bears parallels to WeChat-only companies, popular messaging app Kik acquired the small company behind one of the most successful apps (bots) on the Kikservice.Canada-based Kik, which this year raised $50 millionfrom WeChat parent Tencent at a billion dollar valuation, is buying Blynk  the company behind pocket stylist bot Blynk Style  for an undisclosed sum. The value of the transaction isnt important though, the fact that Kik is investing its platform through the acquisition is. (Slack will soon do something similar, butmore regimented, after it co-createda VC fund for apps on its platform.)Blynks four full-time employees  including co-foundersJaclyn Ling and Shums Kassam  will move to Kiks office in Waterloo where, the company said, they will help us further delve into the world of bots and personal chat assistants on Kik.Might that mean future services and products around fashion? That couldwell be the case over time, although Kik isnt saying anything beyond that quote for now.Blynk  which offers apps for iOS and Android too  is a good example of what bots, which areprogrammed accounts which respond to users, can do on Kik. The Blynkbot itself narrows down the kind of fashion a user is into using visual Q&A, it then helps them browse high-street catalogs, and offers other kind of entertainment all of which is hosted inside the Kik app. In other words, users can get an app and web-like experiences without leaving the messaging app.That kind of immersion is really the key if services like Kik, Snapchat, Facebook Messenger and others are to emulate the success of WeChat in Western markets like the U.S..Last week, Facebook integrated Ubers ride-hailing service into Messenger, its boldest move to date towards a WeChat-like platform. Yet, much of the feedback I saw centered around this being a nice but not necessary addition since you can already book Uber via its mobile apps.Kik, however, is focused in serving a much younger demographic  the company claims that 40 percent of youth in North America have a Kik account  in a way that cant be mimicked elsewhere.Since it has a very focused audience  unlike Messenger, which straddles various ages, demographics and locations  Kik thinks it better knows what types of service that its users want.That seems to be music  Kik launched a music community service in August  and, with Blynk, fashion. You can imagine, other areas that tap into youth interest like films and perhaps sport. Over time, we maysee the company invest in other startupthat use its platform and are focused on those areas.Were open minded and we think about how to build the best experience,Jae Kim, head of strategy and partners, told TechCrunch in an interview. [If there are]teams that help us to do that and accelerate that, were always interested. We see a lot of people building on chat [and] a lot of ways to partner with them.The deal, which is more of an acquihire than an acquisition, is the third time Kik has bought a company. It bought GIF Relay in November 2014 and this summer it snapped up GameMix, a startupmaking HTML5 games for the Kik Messenger platform.