Applefinally allowed developers to create widget apps for iPhone and iPad owners when it released iOS 8. Thats opened up some usefulshortcuts and quick optionsfor Apple customers  Im a bigfan of Launcher  one of whichis Klok, a widget released today foranyone with a need to keeptrack of time across the world.Created by Singapore-based app dev shopBuuuk, the free appsports a clean design and is super easy to get working. It allows you to put up to five dedicated city clocks into the drop down menu, giving you a choice betweentraditional clock faceor digitaltime keeping. (The latter may be preferable forthose withsmaller iPhones.)Once you download the app, the first step is install it within the widget section of iOS. When that isdone,you simply open the Klok app and add/remove your desiredcity clocks.Setup completed, the clocks are easily foundby swiping down from the top of the screen. But, thats not quite all  beyond just seeing time, you can also compare time zones at any hour.Thats ideal if you have a meeting thats scheduled in a different time zone and wanta quick way to calculate when itll take placeat your local hour. In another nice touch, clocks are colored black during the night periodand white during the day.Since Apple hasnt turned its world clock into a widget yet,Klok just removed another reason to pay attention to thedefault iOS clock app, which Ilongconsigned to afolder full ofredundant Apple apps.Yes, the alarm clock feature remains vital to many, but youcan access that via the swipe up menu if you navigate from the stopwatch. Nowtheres really no need to letthe stock clock app takeup precious space on your phones homescreen.Update: Good news, folks, Buuuk has no plans to charge for the app. Forever free!Klok will remain free because we want to reach as many users as possible. We have been releasing free apps in Singapore to reach out to potential clients, and it has been working well for us. We feel this is the best way to showcase the quality of our work. Klok is our attempt to do it globally.