John Doerr joined the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers 25 years ago, but it didnt take him nearly so long to cement his status as a legend in the industry.Doerrscareer in tech began in1974 at the chipmaker Intel, where he heldroles in engineering, marketing, management and sales. He later founded a software company called Silicon Compilers and co-founded the once high-flying broadband cable Internet service @Home.Doerrs real impact on the tech industry has been at Kleiner, however.When such companies asIntuit, Amazon, Netscape, and Google were still nascent and unproven, Doerr helped convince his partners atKleinerto get behind them. (He still sits on the board of Google. He sat on the board of Amazon until 2010.)Beginning roughly 10 years ago, Doerr also led the industry on avery public, highlyambitious march into clean tech investing.While not all of those bets panned out in fact, Kleiner had almostbacked out of clean tech investing entirely by 2012, when it raised its 15th fund  some companies,including the now-publicly-traded industrial biotechnology outfitAmryis, were widely considered pioneers in their field.More recently,Doerr has become a public advocate for greater diversity at Kleiner and for the broader startup ecosystem. The famed Ellen Pao gender discrimination case, which Kleiner won, may have prompted Doerr to speak up. Butin its aftermath,Doerr has alsoconceded that thedifficultcase made Kleinerbothmoreaware of who we are and what we stand for and also raised our desire to do more.Of course, Doerr continues toactively invest in new companies. He recently led an investment in Flipagram, a startup that lets people create and share photo slide shows set to music. In a neat twist,aspart of the funding, which Sequoia Capital co-led, Doerrjoined the board alongside Sequoias Michael Moritz. Its the first time the two have served as directors together since theyjoined the board of Google back in 1999.Wehope youre as excited as we are to hear Doerr talk shop at Disrupt SF 2015,scheduled September 21-23 at San Franciscos historic Pier 70. Its a special, rareappearance, andwe cant wait to welcome him.To hear Doerr and the other many other excellent speakers coming to Disrupt, you canpurchase tickets, at special early-bird prices,righthere.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.