While Greece and its creditors continue to play a game of chicken, a startup out of Germany putting a big dataspin on the business of loaning moneyis raising a large round of funding.TechCrunch has learned that Kreditech, an online financestartup that loansmoney to consumers who havelittle or no credit rating, is raising around $110 millionin a Series C round of funding. One partof that has already been secured from one of the better knownVCs and entrepreneurs in the startup world. 37.5 million ($44 million) is coming from investors that include Peter Thiel, one of the co-founders in PayPal and a prolific investor who has backedFacebook, Palantir and many others.The rise of Kreditech speaks to a big upswing for fintech startups, with others out of Europe like WorldRemit,TransferWiseand Funding Circleall raising large rounds of funding, and larger M&A movements pointing to a bigger growth for the space overall as tech businesses continue to disrupt the traditional banking system. Just last week, PayPal acquired Xoom for $890 million.Thiels involvement with Kreditech was first reported in the German press, which actually gave a higher figure for the full round. Weve confirmed this first tranche and havebeen toldthe round could be around 100 million.We also understand that it may be around three months before the full round is finalised and announced officially.Were still trying to nail down who else might be involved in this round. To date,Kreditechhas raised 70 million ($78 million) in equity and 185 million ($206 million) in debt. Previous investors in the companyinclude Blumberg Capital, Vrde Capital, Point Nine, Kreos and Global Founders Capital.One possibility (just my own conjecture, not confirmed) is that this round could also include a strategic investor in the form of an e-commerce company. Thats because while today Kreditech positions itself as a direct to consumer offering, one strategy that its looking to pursue is to partner with larger businesses who might wantto offer customers alternative financing options to purchase items on their sites.(Coincidentally, Griemens likes to refer to Kreditech as the Amazon of consumer funding, a reference to how the company would like to become a one-stop shop for all of a consumers online finance needs. What Amazon has done for commerce, we would like to do for how you manage your own finances, he told TechCrunch in January.)Wed actually first heard about this Series Cin January, when Kreditech secured a $200 million facility from Victory Park Capital to expandthe numberof loans made on its platform (Victory Park has also provided financing capital to startups likeSquare, Kabbage and Borro). At the time, KreditechsCFO Rene Griemens told usthat the company wouldstart fundraising for its Series C later this year. Speculation was that it would be on a pre-money valuation of $750 million, but that valuationwas never confirmed.That valuation points to some significant growth for the company. A year ago, whenthe company raised a $40 million Series B, it was valued at just $190 million. This year, Kreditechis on track to grow its 2015 run rate 3.5 times on 2014, which was $130 million.The companys business model is based on fees and interest on its loans. In 2014 the company made 21 million in revenues and expects to make 55 million ($62 million) in 2015. The company also claims underlying profitability in its most mature markets, although its also been ploughing proceeds into growth and customer acquisition  as it intends to do with this next Series C.While a lot of tech companies out of Europe have looked to the U.S. market to scale up, Kreditech is taking a page from another big player in the European tech world, Rocket Internet (whose co-founder Marc Samwer is an investor in Kreditech), in how it has chosen to grow.The company has largelycircumvented the U.S. market (largely because its picking up funding from there, if not customers) in its roll out. Instead, it has focused more  but not exclusively  on countries with developing economies andpeople who are lackcredit ratings and possibly bank accounts. Today its active in sevenmarkets  Australia, Germany, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Peru, Poland, Spain  and will next be adding Romania and Brazil to the list.There are a lot of questions raised about whether companies like Kreditech are playing a high-risk game by going after the user segments that it does. But Kreditech claims to be fighting such tendencies with tech.Indeed, ithas built out a very tech-centric solution to financing loans and making up for a lack of credit history. Kreditechuses around20,000 data points to assess a persons suitability as a loan candidate. Those data points can be single lines in bank account statements to behavioral info such as a persons interactions with web sites and social data.Those data points are then grouped into clusters that help determine the likelihood thata specific customer would pay back a loan.Kreditech has a relatively low acceptance rate  80% of applicants might get refused  butGriemens claimsthat it has a better default rate than traditional banks.On top of its vetting process, Kreditech also follows in the tradition of other online lending startups in claiming a much faster turnaround on applications.