L.A. has a new venture firm in March Capital Partners, a $240 million fund thathas a few tricks up its sleeve. For starters, though itinvests in both Southern and Northern California, it considers itself a global investor and has already made bets in India (inonline payments company BillDesk) and Germany (Dojo Madness, which makes a digital coaching app for gamers).It also writes Series B and Series C checks, which cant be said of many other L.A.-based venture firms. And March Capital, which isprimarily focused on business-to-business enterprises, has ties to three other enterprises that help with its deal flow. Itsa cofounder and an investor in two Bay Area accelerators that keep it abreast of new trends: The Fabric and Hive. More, oneof itsfounding partners is Jamie Montgomery, a renowned investment banker who in recent years has launched anannual summit thatintroduces privately held companies to hundreds of investors and this yearfeatured formerCisco CEO John Chambers, Atom Factorys CEO Troy Carter, and designer Yves Bhar among others.Montgomery isnt the only familiar faceat March, either. Others of Marchs founding partners include longtime VCs Jim Armstrong,Sumant Mandalboth formerly of Clearstone Venture Partnersand Gregory Milken, a serial entrepreneur and board member of the Milken Institute.We talked yesterday with Montgomery and Mandal about their new firm, which they quietly formed 20 months ago. (They spent the last 18 months fundraising.)TC: Sumant, you and Jim spent much of your careers at Clearstone. Is it shutting down?SM: Its still around. It still has an active fund. But I dont think well raise another fund.TC: At March,youreinvesting in A through C rounds. What size checks are youwriting?SM: From $1 million to $20 million.TC: Youve been investing during your fundraising process. How many companies have you backed so far?SM: We have sixteen companies in our portfolio, one of which has exited already. Deep Forest Media, acquired by Rakuten [for undisclosed terms]TC: You have a global mandate, but are youinvesting primarily in Southern California, given that youre based in Santa Monica?JM: About a third of our investments are in Southern California. About 80 percent are in California. But Sumant has a lot of experience in India, and we all have established relationships in Silicon Valley, which we visit pretty much once a week.TC: Ive often heard founders in L.A. lament the fact that there isnt much later-stage capital there. Was that your pitch to LPs, that youd help fill that gap?JM: Thats part of it. There are a number of smaller, seed funds here, and one or two larger funds that are moredigital-media focused than we are. I wouldnt say we dont do digital media, but we major in B2Band minor in that area. But also, while there are many more world-class entrepreneurs in the Bay Area, we dont want to pass up those in our backyard, either. Weve very bullish on Southern California. Were seeing more entrepreneurs move down here. Snapchat, [the mobile entertainment startup] Scopely and other companies have attracted a lot of talent to the area. USC and Caltech are graduating about 10,000 engineers a year down here. So we like the long-term trends we see.TC: Except for successful serial entrepreneurs, valuations seem to softening up here in San Francisco a little bit. Or else, VCs say they at least have more time to produce a term sheet. Whats happening in L.A.?SM: The same applies in L.A. People are getting more realistic about valuations, though I think itll be another six months before its normalized.JM: Yes, seed deals got ahead ofthemselves and Series A rounds have had to sometimes reset valuations. Series C and D [deals] down here were pretty frothy,as well, though probably at a 15 to 20 percentdiscount to what you were seeing in the Bay Area.We lost a number of deals wherewe were 30 to 50 percent lower than other bidders, but were fairly confident that valuations will normalize over timeas Sumant said. It takes a while. People are right now extending that last round, or putting in 2x preferences on additional capital without changing [a companys] valuation. Theres still a lot of liquidity in the market, so theres a lot of stalling going on right now.No one is sure of what the right terms are anymore.(Photo courtesy of March Capital Partners. From left to right: Gregory Milken, Jim Armstrong, Jamie Montgomery, Sumant Mandal)