London-baseddigital product studio ustwo made an aesthetic splash last year with Monument Valley  a touchscreen game that was more minimalist moodboard than standard mobile gaming fare. Thepaid appgarnered more than a million downloadsand caught Apples eye, going on to winone of Cupertinos coveted2014 design awards.So what has ustwos 11-strong games team been up to since then(beyond crafting anappendix of extra MV levels)? Turns out theyve been experimentingwith virtual reality. For eighteen months, no less. And the result of their exploration is a forthcoming game for the Samsung GearVR headset called Lands End. It will be launching on October 30 (via the Oculus Home portal), and is  befittingly for a first move something of an investigationof the VR medium.I say game, in fact ustwos games team talk of Lands Endmore as an immersive experience with game-like elements when I askthemabout what theyve been building. The games main focus are itslandscapes  which take inspiration fromisolated regions such as remote parts of Iceland and the windsweptcoastlines ofthe Hebrides, as well asneolithic sites and artifacts, including Stonehenge. The narrative pathis about findingout what happened to the ancient civilization whose relics you are encountering.Its kind of what we think of as a spiritual cousin to Monument Valley. It has some things in common, says ustwos Ken Wong. We think of it a bit like going through an art gallery or a museum. Youre seeing beautiful, amazing things.Its something that everybody can play  not just experienced gamers. But its custom designed for VR. In the way that Monument Valley was designed to be the best touchscreen experience possible, we wanted to make the best VR experience. So we spent a long time learning about VR, and researching, and finding out what VR is not good at and what its strengths are.Spend any time playingMonument Valley and its preoccupation withaesthetics and encouraginga meditative mood are instantlyevident. Sure, there were puzzles to unlock with your fingertips, but the app isfar more focused onintricately designed visuals and a gently unfolding storythan on elaborategameplay mechanics.The same appearstrue ofLands End firstlybecause ustwos games designteamremains interested in creating leftfield experiences, given their design-ledstrategyto stand out in a packed (and often unsubtle) mobile gaming space.But also  in this instance  becauseof the limitations of the VR medium. Specifically the risk of making players feelsick.How do you design a VR game thats less likely to make aplayers stomach churn? Turns out you need toput some pretty strict limits on how theycan interact within the alternative world youre inviting them to step into. At least with current gen VR tech.We initially thought Lands End would maybe take three months to do, and then wed put it out into the world. I think we underestimated how much we would have to learn about this new medium. And it really is a new medium, saysWong. Video game development up until this point has all been forscreen, and youve been controlling the game in some way with your hands. And here comes VR and instead of a screen everywhere you look around you is the virtual world.To take advantage of that we had to go through a lot of prototyping. Kind of re-learning these basic lessons of how are we going to move around in the world? And how are we going to interact with objects? That took a lot of experimentation, he adds.Lands Endgameplay useshead-tracking  what ustwo iscalling a gaze-based mechanic  to allow the player to move within its virtual landscapes, although that means they are effectively constrained topre-defined rails. Tomove around,the player looks around to locate points of light, calledlook points. From there lookingat one of these pointsautomatically  and steadily  moves the player towards it. The team describes the resultas a meditative movementbut the underlying design aimis clearly to avoid any rollercoaster lurches that might transformLands End into, well, Lunchs End.We want this to be as comfortable as possible, and so weve designed it from the start for sensitive people, says Wong.One of the things we found, that we discovered very early, was that allowing people free motion  allowing people to just walk wherever they want and do whatever they want, theyre quickly going to make themselves sick.So we said were going to try limiting their movement a bit but then designing the levels around them so that theyre not even aware of these limitations It feels a bit like youre hiking through a really beautiful landscape.And youre not really aware that there isnt a lot of option. You cant wander around freely. But in general there are only certain paths and ledges that are inviting to explore.Theres more tothe game than just hiking along pre-set paths, though. Wong shies away from labeling Lands Enda puzzle game per se saying that during testing the team foundpeople didntwant to solve really complex puzzles in VR  yetthere are some puzzle elements which dorequire the gamer to interact with aspectsof the landscape in order to progress the story. So how have they managed that, given theres no hand-held controller?Again this involves usinghead-tracking as a methodto manipulate objectsin the world. The team describes the effect theyre going for here as a sort oftelekinesis.We found very quickly that just exploring isnt enough. It doesnt help the player get into the mindstate that we wanted them to be in, says ustwos Peter Pashley. We found that being able to interact with that environment, and affect that environment is really important in how people actually think of that world, and how they think about that world  how their mind engages with the reality thats presented to them.Weve been through a lot of different methods of doing that but what weve settled on is one mechanic for moving parts of the world around  so its a way of picking up giant blocks of stone, for example, and moving them around from A to B. The way that works is you look at a point on the stone And once youve looked at it, it becomes attracted to where youre looking. So you can use that method to drag these big, heavy, swinging blocks of stone or whatever around the world.It kind of feels like using the force, adds Wong, with a laugh.The second form of interaction is a mechanic we describe as star-lines, continuesPashley, describing a feature that letsplayers weave a line of light from point to point, connecting upglyphs they find carved into rocks in the landscape. A bit like a connect-the-dots puzzle. If you connect all of these stars then the puzzle that is triggered by that is activated and there will be some kind of reaction  whether its parts of the world shifting and rearranging, or something else triggering.These two mechanics play into each other because you can use your telekinetic powers to move parts of the world around which have got some of these star points on them in order to make it possible to complete one of these star constellations, he adds.Were not looking to get people having huge adrenaline rushes or getting really confused or held up by puzzles. Were looking to create an experience where they have this  Im not sure relaxation is quite the right way of putting it but an immersion in this world that feels exciting and relaxing at the same time.The result certainly soundsmore immersive than adrenaline-inducing (to be clear, I havent tried it out myself, but given Minecraft gives me motion-sickness Im in no hurry to don a VR headset). Whichin turn sounds more appropriate for the VR medium. Wong sayshe finds the game generatesa similarfeeling to watchinga well-producednature documentary, narrated by the soothing tones of David Attenborough, say.But whether VR is appropriate for anything much at this stage of itsnascent development remains a moot point.The paradox for VR  or at leastcurrent gen VR tech  isthat spending time within itsimmersive environments can quickly feeltiring (if not downright nausea-inducing). Butthe core proposition of VR is exactly to transport you to otherrealities. So not being able to stay in the virtualworldyouve been conjured intofor more than, say, 10 minutes does seem a tad contradictory. The risk is VR ends upits ownself-defeatingcontradictionbecausethe technologys own shortcomings suspend your disbelief in the trickits trying to make you believe in.I make this point to ustwos games team and they argue that in part its down tolimitations withcurrent gen VR tech  remaining hopeful that future generations of VR will smooth out at least some of the unpleasant side-effects people areexperiencing with VR right now.It is a bit of a contradiction in that what youll often find if you as a developer have done a good enough experience, people will want to stay in your experience for hours but at the moment theres definitely improvements to be made in terms of the actual hardware I dont think were that far away  where the problems with stimulating the visual part of your brain, or the things that arent quite right with the way that its done at the moment, when we start to beat those problems then a lot of that tiredness, the fatigue of being in VR is going to go away, says Pashley. Motion sickness is going to be the biggest obstacle because thats never going to go away. But I think you can design experiences which are much better for motion sickness.Its not designed for hours and hours of play, adds Wong, talking specifically about Lands End. This is the kind of thing where you might play it for 10 or 20 minutes at a time.What about other design challenges theyve encountered during the dev process? Pashley describesVR asamazingly holistic in the sense thatits atightrope to walk in terms of balancing all the various elements needed to ensure an experience that is neither under- nor over-whelming.You kind of have to get everything right, and everything is hard to get right, he says. As well as that just the whole concept of what youre actually doing and experiencing in this game, and the pacing  I suppose it all comes down to pacing.Its this weird storytelling that again  taking lessons from Monument Valley  we had to tell stories using architecture, saysWong. Were telling a story using the landscape, so instead of building everything out of bridges and hallways and doors, we have ledges and cliffs and arches. And thats been really interesting It is holistic. How can we use just rocks and grass and the sounds that they make, and what interactions we overlay on that  how can we use that to construct this narratorless experience?It may be a bit like designing a fairground ride, in a way. Like a haunted house. You know that people are going to progress through the world by going A, B, C, D and you just want to pace it out so that theyre constantly looking forward to whats going to happen next, he adds.Ultimately it all comes down to the players state of mind. Theres a hard to articulate [state] that were trying to get people into Its a form of immersion, I guess. We dont want to do things that pull people out of the experience, adds Pashley.There will be and there are ways of interacting with VR that are going to be great there will be physical controllers that are going to provide amazing VR experiences.But I think that the base, the lowest common denominator for all VR experiences, is being able to open your eyes in a new world, and to look around at it, and to look above and behind and all around you. So I think immersionthat feeling of I am in somewhere, Ive gone somewherefor me thats the most exciting thing about VR.Monument Valley fans might wonder whether ustwoat least considered doinga VR, first-person perspective version of their beloved title. One where they get to walk around in Idas shoes. And thiswas something they played around with very early on during their VR explorations, says Pashley. However it was obviousthe core MV game mechanicwould nottranslate to VR. And in any case he says they were keen to buildsomething new  albeit with a fewthematic overlaps.If we were going to make something for VR we wanted to make something that was designed to be great at the things that VR is great at  not just doing a port of something, he says, adding:Monument Valleys a forced perspective game, and all of the impossible puzzles would just not work in VR in the same way that they dont work in real life As soon as you start making people walk on the walls of buildings and rotating them and moving them then theyre going to feel sick.As for why they chose the GearVR as the platform for their first careful foray into virtual reality, Pashley says they wanted to aim for something with the widest possible appeal within the space  which meant eschewinghigher end headsets still in the works (such as Facebooks Oculus Rift, which requires a gaming PC also in the loop, or the HTC/Value Vive joint venture). The GearVR is powered bya smartphone, which slots inside the headset,so is a lower budget option for a consumer VR experienceAfter spendinga year and a half exploring VR, what does ustwos team think of thetechnology? Is VR poised for the big time  for mass consumer adoption  or does it seem morelike something that will remain ofniche or specialist interest?Pashleys view is that VR is going to play more of a supporting role  as a peripheral, rather than a central focus formost consumers. Certainly in itsmobile flavor.If youre booking a hotel room and you want to know what the view from the window is, youll be able to just stick yourphone into aheadset and just have a quick look at what its going to look like. Those kind of everyday uses of VR will be how it progresses to the mainstream, if it progresses to the mainstream, he says.And in terms of entertainment, the kind of thing that were doing, that will obviously be part of the appeal of these things. But I think the killer app is going to be something else.ustwos games team is certainly not about to start churning out lots ofVR titles. But then sausage factory production has never beenpart of their philosophy. And while it says it may revisit VR againin future  and talks about having laid down a foundation of VR expertise over the course of developingLands End  there are clearly lots of othertechnologies catching their eye right now,whetherits the new3D Touch pressure-sensitive screens on AppleiPhones, or Apple TV with its Siri-enabled remote control.Its definitely part of the same drive for us as a team  the same drive that made us want to do something for VR is certainly driving me to want to experiment with both of those two things, saysPashley when I ask whats next.The really exciting thing about GearVR, 3D Touch, Apple TV is that theyre not niche; theyre things that are available to everybody. And thats something thats really exciting for us  is that we get to do this, play at the forefront of technology but also be able to show it to our mums and have them enjoy it.Returning to VR as a consumer technology, it strikes me that at the end of the day Lands End depopulated, remote and slightly forbidding landscapes might stand  for the moment at least  as something of a visual metaphor for virtual reality itself. Intriguing, sure. At times a littlebreathtaking. Yet still sequestered away from the mainstream, either by stomach-churningwaters ora lack of a clear reason to go there.