A company called Laugh.ly wants to make streaming sets from thebest comedians as easy as streaming music on Pandora. Though not yet available to the public, Laugh.lys iOS application will allow users to follow both big-name comedians like Louis C.K., Kevin Hart, Aziz Ansari and Amy Schumer, among others, as well as emerging stand-up comics looking for a way to grow and monetize their fan base.The company has lined up more than 400 comedians whose content will stream on its app, and a totalof20,000 individual tracks.These content deals were often made with comedians directly, explains Laugh.lys founder Dave Scott. Its different from musicians, he says. [Comedians often] own their own rights, or theyre owned by mom-and-pop shops.However, several of the bigger names on the platform came in via the larger record label deals, he notes.In addition, the company is working with brands like Uproar, Shout, Laughing Stock and other big names in comedy (think TV), to license content.Scott is a third-time founder, having previously started an e-commerce sitefor entertainment merchandise, nextplanetover.com, as well as a marketing automation company, Marketfish, that worked with Disney, Direct TV, Norwegian Cruise Lines and others. While both of these allowed for some cross-over with the entertainment industry, that wasnt what prompted the idea for Laugh.ly.Instead, Scott was inspired to work in this space because he became a stand-up comedian himself. After the sale of his last company, he began taking classes at the Upright Citizens Brigade and doing open mic nights. He later moved to San Francisco and attended San Francisco Comedy College. (He even once had Tracy Morgan chase him outside after a bad set to remind him that hey man, everybody bombs.)The business model for Laugh.ly is similar to Pandoras, as comedians will participate in a revenue share with the company, whilethe service itself is ad-supported to remain free for consumers. Also like Pandora, users can choose to upgrade to an ad-free experience.For $7.99 per month, Laugh.lys premium customers can ditch the commercials, save content for offline access and stream exclusive content the company is developing in partnership with the comedians participating on the platform.However, Scott points out that Laugh.ly isnt just another content play  the company has developed legitimatetech IP, too. Forthe past several years, Laugh.lys developers have been working on technology thatsa lot like PandorasMusic Genome Project, but for the spoken word. That is, the companys platform transcribes every joke it processes, so it knows what the jokes are about as well astheir larger context.This allowsconsumers to create smart playlists using the app. For example, they could create a playlist (aka a station) that just contained Trump jokes.Another nice feature that having transcriptions allows for is the ability to quickly toggle on or off the profanity in a stand ups routine  helpful for when youre listening around kids, perhaps.Laugh.ly will launch into public beta this summer, but interested users can sign up now on the companys websiteto be first in line.Startup Battlefield Wild Card: Laugh.ly Brings Customized Comedy to Devices at #TCDisrupt https://t.co/927jYM6TzU TechCrunch (@TechCrunch) May 9, 2016//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js