
Mike Prasad is the managing director and founding partner of ventureLab.Many founders ask me for advice on their latest startup. Of all the things Ive learned, some of the most compelling tips come from starting a business out of an oldtruck. When I joined the founding team ofKogiBBQ with Chef Roy Choi in 2008, all we had was afoodtruckand seed funding from a maxed-out credit card.We had no idea that it would change the entirefood industry, help popularize Twitter and spawn countless twitteringfoodtrucks around the world.I generally dont like to attributeKogis success to growth hacking, though. I would say instead that our growth was largely attributable to a few fundamental strategies. There arethreecore insights that I believe apply to any kind of startup, whether youre selling apps or kimchi and tacos.As an Angeleno, Roys vision was to bring Korean cuisine to the entire city, beyond just Koreatown. He imagined the streetfoodscenes he grew up with in Seoul, but with more diverse flavors and customers. To most Americans however, Korean BBQ was a foreign, slightly uncomfortable foodexperience that you only accessed with a Korean-speaking friend. And with the citys notorious traffic, driving across town to eat at your favorite spot was rarely worth it. This was the reality of the market, and it would have been absurd to expect it to magically change overnight.Kogievolved around the idea of distribution via roamingfoodtrucks: Instead of forcing your customer to come to your restaurant, why not bring the restaurant to them? That delivery platform also helped define who our target customers were. Not traditional fancy restaurant goers, but a connected customer base already out in the city, craving a late night snack.With that in mind, we launchedKogiin front of nightclubs and hooked up the bouncers with free meals. They were more than happy to send customers ourway, at least until the club owners found out about our secret taco kickbacks. We also took our truck to colleges to feed the hungry hordes, and to tech companies where starving developers needed to re-fuel between their late-night coding binges.Through my involvement with LAs early startup scene, I also broughtKogito local events like Twiistup and The Streamys. We even taco-bombed one ofBrian Solis late night drink ups. This was perfect, since we used Twitter as our main communication and marketing channel. What betterwayto tell a connected community about our ever-changing location than through their mobile phones? Twitter soon became a virtual hangout for customers that persisted beyond their time at thetruck.We couldnt fix L.A.s horrible traffic, but now we knew we could rally our customers, any time, any place. Yet we still had one other hurdle: Koreanfoodwas generally seen as too exotic and inaccessible for most people.To create a Korean dish that would plug into the diverse culture of Los Angeles, Chef Roy borrowed from another ethnic cuisine that the city loved: The humble taco. Portable and affordable, the taco was fun, accessible and perfectly suited to our target customers who were in search of a quick and tasty bite. Mexican and Korean cuisine also share quite a few similarities, so the familiar form factor worked well with Chef Roys flavor combinations. We made gourmet fusionfoodaccessible to all.Another thing benefited our strategy: Tacos are great photo props. Twitter was soon inundated by pictures of customers proudly posing with their tacos held high. Social media requires a balance of time, money and content. We didnt have much time or money, but our customers provided us with endless content.This social presence was amplified by our brand, which was designed to be familiar, fun and easily sharable. Starting with a beloved product category is great, but its crucial to build in mechanisms that facilitate easy sharing. Anything that ever had viral growth has leveraged such mechanisms, whether intentional or not. You could say Slack is the current Korean BBQ taco of the SaaS world, a spiced-up version of IRC thats architected to drive sharing among colleagues.Neithertruck, taco nor Twitter alone could guarantee success, however  which brings me to my final insightWith traditional no-name taco trucks already ubiquitous in L.A., our crazy variation was still unproven. We needed something more. So we invested enormous time and effort to create a culture aroundKogiBBQ. Not just a recognizable and distinctive brand, but deep associations with the people we wanted to reach. We popped up and supported many elements of local culture, from music to art shows, museums and more.Young, forward-thinking, multicultural and distinctly L.A.,KogiKulturecame to represent more than just a late night bite. People of different origins and social backgrounds all congregated around ourfoodtruck,andKogi quickly became one of the cultural icons of the city.By engaging existing cultures, we became a bridge between them, which cultivated our own culture around our business  fans not only loved thefood, they loved what we stood for. That culture was able to solve many problems we would not have survived otherwise. They turned ourfoodexperience into a movement, and whenever we encountered some inevitable bump in the road, they defended us both online and off. When Baja Freshtried to knock off our brand,fans fought backwhen we couldnt. AndBaja quickly backed downamid the Twitter furor.Foodtrucks dont scale, but they make MONEY. In its first year,Kogigrossed a few million dollars from one and a half trucks selling $2 tacos. NowKogihas four trucks and a restaurant right inside LAX. Literally the first thing many travelers taste when they arrive in L.A. is aKogiBBQ taco. Along theway,Kogialso helped launch a disruptivebillion-dollar industry.There are many essential values in buildingstartups; however, there are a few that matter most:Kogiwas built on all of these, but Im convinced that culture was the most important. Without a strong and clearly defined culture, strategy and efficiency become muddled. Alignment becomes impossible. Culture keeps your customers and employees with you, fighting by your side against impossible odds. Manystartupsoverlook culture, but Im pretty damn sure culture is ultimately what madeKogiBBQ succeed.Image: Used with permission by Kogi BBQ