An untold number ofschools will be receiving some happy news this coming Friday.According to an on-stage appearance today at the Female Founders Conference in San Francisco, philanthropist Laurene Powell Jobs revealed that a six-month-old national education challengeshes backing called XQ: The Super School Project, is announcing which U.S. schools advanceto the next phase. The competition willultimatelysee atleast five institutions receive a collective$50 million to try what will be for them entirely new educational approaches.Powell Jobs spoke about XQ on stage earlier tonightwith Russlynn Ali, who worked in the Obama administrations Education Department as the assistant secretary for civil rights. Ali now heads up XQ and she told attendees that the challenge has clearly struck a chord. In fact, itsadministrators have nowheard from more than 40,000 individuals, including educators and parents, since Powell first made public the project. Alialso said the program has received nearly700 applications from 49states. (This includes 10,000 applicants and school designers, meaning individuals who both submitted full applications and those who participated in the design process.)One of those applicantsis Sullivan High School in Chicago, which, like other schools, was asked to come up with a new vision for itself thatsspecific to its student population. According to a Chicago Sun-Times story, Sullivan features students from 35 countries,who speak 20 languages,and its principal, parents, and community members have proposed a curriculum that would provide incoming freshmen with time to focus on themselves. It would thenask sophomores to contribute their ideas and time to performing community service and problem solving  ideas the students would be asked to apply to a national level their junior year and a global levelduring their senior yearof high school.Whether or not Sullivan is ultimately chosen to receive funding and assistance from XQ, both Ali and Powell Jobs emphasized tonight that itsambitions to help schools rethink education is more important than ever, largely given how quickly the nature of work is changing.Recounting an earlier conversation shedhad with Powell Jobs, Ali told the audience that schools have been a black box for too long. The pair also noted that in the last 100 years, the Model T has given way to Teslas, and switchboards have given way to incredible smart phones. Meanwhile, the model for U.S. high schools has remained virtually unchanged.Thepairalso noted that while each of the winning schoolswill likely beaddressing issues differently,theschoolsdifferent models, including their learnings, successes and failureswill be shared across the entire network. (Powell Jobs added that she expects many commonalities among them as well, including highly relevant, interest-based, experiential learning thats integrated with businesses in the community so that internships are accessible to every single student.)If XQ is at all successfulin jump-startinga bigger movement, Americans will hopefully no longer see time as the proxy forlearning but instead the actual mastery of content, suggested Ali. If not, she seemed to warn, the U.S. could be saddled with both an achievement and opportunity gap that only grows wider from here.You can learn much more about Project XQ here.