When Alexis Ringwald exited her last energy startup, the U.S. labormarket was still in the long hangoverafter the Great Recession.The countrys unemployment was about double what it is today andmillions ofhad lost their jobsin the wake of thefinancial crisis and housing crash.So Ringwald went on a long listening tour over six months. She visited unemploymentcenters throughout SiliconValley, talking to people looking for work. She went into the heart of Central California, where some communities had unemployment ratesthat were close to40 percent.What I found is that people apply incessantly to a lot of places, she said. But they never hear back. Theyre always unqualified. Theres no clear pathway into a job.Moreover, she found thatthree-fourths of thejobs available in the labor market dont require a college degree. So Ringwald wanted to createsomething that would help most job seekers, not just ones with college degrees or good social ties into upwardly mobile jobs.She started looking at how entry-level employers hire and filter out candidates.Out of that came LearnUp, a training platformthathelps entry-level candidates learn some basic skills before they apply.One of their early partners was Staples. LearnUp provides a batch ofthree- or 10-minute learning modules containing questions about thingslikeoffice equipment and copying machines. Candidates go through this one-hour training and learn a little bit about the position before interviewing. It alsohelps employers filterout candidates whoare moremotivated or who have taken the time to go through a training.Now LearnUp has scored another big partnership with Gaps Old Navy brand, that it says will help it reachmore than 200,000 job candidates.Old Navy will use the LearnUpplatform to prepare workers for jobs at its 350 stores across the United States.Theyre building an initiative calledLearnUp the Ladder, which willprovide free online education for anyonewanting to learn entry-level and management skills in retail.I think the only thing we can continue to do with the changing job market is keep training workers and having them acquire new skills at the pace at which work is changing, whether thats in retail or banking, Ringwald said.LearnUp is backed by $1.9 million in funding from NEA, Greylock, SV Angel andothers.