
Seth Northrop is an attorney with Robins Kaplan, as well as a former software engineer and entrepreneur.Li Zhu is an attorney with Robins Kaplan and focuses on patent law in the tech industry.Tens of thousands of broadcasters, game developers and fans converged on San Franciscos Moscone Center during TwitchCon 2015  Twitchs inaugural celebration for the video game streaming community.Since its launch in 2007, Twitch has grown into the worlds most popular streaming platform for video game and electronic sports Internet streaming, ranking fourth overall in the U.S. for peak Internet traffic in 2014.Other platforms, such as the recently-launched YouTube Gaming, are also gaining popularity.Why the surge? Not only do the services provide a community for video game fanatics, streamers can earn good money through advertisement sharing and viewer donations, and can further leverage their growing popularity into brand deals or other sponsorships. This means many streamers are effectively running a business out of their bedroom. But while it may be exciting to make a living from broadcasting videogame content, streamers should take early precautions to protect their channels and avoid being GGed by a potential legal dispute.Copyright law protects original content, such as original songs and videogames, from unauthorized reproduction and use. Both the underlying music composition and the sound recording itself are protected by copyright law, and most often owned by different entities.Copyrights typically span the authors lifetime plus 70 years, and licenses are available either through statutory licenses or licenses from a performance rights organization or the applicable music publisher or recording company. Streaming platforms generally enforce copyrights on behalf of the copyright holder by monitoring for the unauthorized use of copyrighted music.Last year, Twitch struck a deal with Audible Magic allowing it to mute pre-recorded Videos on Demand (VoDs) that used copyrighted music (including in-game music). Specifically, Audible Magics software scans VoD content from Twitch users in 30-minute blocks and mutes the entire block if copyrighted music is detected.This can be profoundly frustrating for both the broadcaster and the audience who may not know why the audio was cut. To avoid this, streamers should refrain from playing copyrighted music on their streams, and instead produce their own music or use licensed music from an authorized source (for example, Twitch responded to public demand earlier this year by introducing a royalty-free music library for streamers to use).Streamers should also be aware that, even if the streamer is not playing copyrighted music, some games, like Grand Theft Auto, contain music that may cause their streams/VoDs to be flagged. Before posting a VoD, its good practice to scan the audio for copyrighted music during post-production.Just like using copyrighted music, broadcasting videogame content within a broadcast can also have legal implications for streamers. Many streamers, such as Twitch broadcasters, produce content based entirely on playing videogames. In these playthroughs, the underlying material is copyrighted and owned by the game developer, but streamers may be legally allowed to reproduce the copyrighted content if they fall under the fair use rule.In a nutshell, fair use means a streamer can broadcast her gameplay for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching . . . scholarship, or research . . . . Whether reproduced content is fair use depends on a number of factors: the purpose and character of the use; the nature of the copyrighted content; the amount of content used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and the effect of the use on the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work. Id. For example, a broadcasters gameplay is more likely to be protected fair use if accompanied by the broadcasters running commentary.Although streamers have generally avoided being brought into court on copyright lawsuits, the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) allows game developers and other copyright holders to file takedown notices targeting copyrighted content. Further, online streaming platforms are starting to use automated tools for scanning and blocking copyrighted content. YouTubes Content ID technology, for example, automatically scans streams and uploaded videos for copyrighted content. If a stream is flagged, Content ID may replace the streamers broadcast with a placeholder image.Streamers should therefore protect themselves and their content by becoming familiar with their fair use rights. Ninth Circuit law requires copyright holders to consider fair use before sending a takedown notification to the broadcaster. In the recent decision involving a YouTube video of a baby dancing to Princes Lets Go Crazy, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held that a copyright holder who pays lip service to the consideration of fair use may be subject to financial penalties.Further, both YouTube and Twitch allow streamers to respond to takedowns with a counter notice explaining why the takedown was mistaken and that the content is protected under fair use. Being well-versed in the law can help streamers protect their channels, and therefore their business, from being disrupted.Streamers should consider the potential benefits of formalizing their streaming business by setting up their own corporation or limited liability company (LLC). Incorporation can provide important tax benefits (remember, donations from viewers through streaming platforms such as Twitch are not gifts and must be reported each year as income), allow for the deduction of normal business expenses, better protect any personal assets in case of legal action, and increase the streamers credibility. It is important to seek help from an experienced attorney to avoid any pitfalls during the setup process.Trademarks are words or symbols that represent a certain company or product and make it distinct from others. They are a companys branding. Popular trademarks include Apples logo, Nikes swoosh, McDonalds golden arches, and the words World of Warcraft by Blizzard Entertainment.Streamers should also consider trademarking their screen name to strengthen their brand and better promote their activities. This usually involves the first step of trademark clearancemaking sure that the chosen name does not infringe an existing trademark. This is especially important if the streamer intends to create a website incorporating the screen name in the domain or to sell merchandise branded with the screen name.The trademark clearance process usually involves retaining an attorney to determine whether the trademark exists, whether the screen name will be a weak mark that is limited in scope or unenforceable, and whether the screen name has negative connotations in other contexts or cultures.State law typically prohibits slander, defined as false and unprivileged announcements about another person that cause harm. A streamer can be guilty of slander by lying in the following ways:If proven, the streamer would be liable for actual damages to the victim caused by the streamers lies, such as the loss of a job, sponsorships, customers or viewers, or clients. Thus, streamers should exercise special care when talking about other people on their stream or during a VoD.Streamers must also be careful when broadcasting content related to professional gamers or other celebrities. Claiming that another person endorses your channel without permission may violate that persons privacy rights. In California, each person has right of publicity to their name, voice, signature, photograph, and likeness.This means each person, including professional gamers, has the right to prevent others from using their identity to endorse a product. A streamer cannot knowingly use a professional gamers identity to promote or advertise the steamers channel or products without the gamers consent. For example, a League of Legends streamer cannot knowingly claim that his/her stream is Dyrus-approved or sponsored by Lee Faker Sang-hyeok for advertising purposes if there is a direct connection between those statements and a commercial purpose (such as doing so to market the stream or sell merchandise).Further, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) can penalize a streamer for lying about an endorsement or for failing to disclose relevant information about the endorsement. Endorsements must reflect the honest opinions, findings, beliefs, or experience of the endorser, endorsements cannot be deceptive, and streamers are liable for false or unsubstantiated statements made through endorsements, or for failing to disclose material connections between themselves and their endorsers.
Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act (the most prominent federal trademark statute) also prohibits broadcasters and game developers from implying they are endorsed by a celebrity if doing so would be misleading. The Ninth Circuit previously addressed this issue in several cases involving Electronics Arts (EA), though in the context of game developers rather than broadcasters.For example, in Keller v. EA, former college football player, Samuel Keller, sued EA for improperly using his likeness as part of EAs NCAA Football videogame franchise without compensating Keller. California law protects the use of a celebritys image if the work in question adds significant creative elements so as to be transformed into something more than mere celebrity likeness or imitation.The appeals court ultimately found that EAs use of Kellers image was not protected because EA had literally recreat[ed] Keller in the very setting in which he has achieved renown. (Note, however, that EA recently filed a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court over a similar copyright dispute concerning a state-law right-of-publicity claim.)Streamers should therefore tread carefully when broadcasting public statements about sponsorships or endorsements related to the streamers channel, website, or other products.Last, but not least, streamers should read every agreement that affects their business. This means carefully assessing the terms in sponsorship or partnership agreements before signing them. These agreements may impose restrictions on what can/cant be said during a stream or VoD. Further, multiple sponsorships or partnerships can raise conflicts of interest if the streamer is contractually obligated to promote two competing products.Streamers should also become familiar with the Terms of Service for their streaming platform(s). Each platform has different terms, but key provisions usually include a license from the streamer allowing the platform to use the streamers content for any reason, prohibitions against certain types of unauthorized conduct by the broadcaster, and a provision allowing for termination of the streamers account for repeated violations.