The founders of Legion Analytics say theyre offering a better way forsalespeople to find new customers.The startup is part of Y Combinators new fellowship system, an eight-week program for very, very early stage companies who receive a $12,000 grant and fly in for office hours and mentorship.Whats wrong with the current lead generation process? CTO Sinan Ozdemir said that it usually involves data dumps where 20 to 40 percent of the information might be inaccurate or irrelevant.So Legion Analytics doesnt just provide salespeople with a big list of contact information. Instead, it sends them with two, five or 10 potential leads (depending on theplan) each morning. Those leads are curated based on your company and your interests, then theyre further tailored over time as you give a thumbs down or thumbs up, Pandora-style, to each one.Behind the scenes, Legion Analytics says it curates these leads with a combination of algorithm and in-house experts. A lot of this is based on peoples job titles  CEO Jamasen Rodriguez said the system works fine with legacy job titles but really shines when it comes to newer titles like sales hacker, because it understands how various jobtitlescan actually mean the same thing.You can also be more specific with your filters, like saying you want to connect with a VP of sales at companies with over $5M in funding in San Francisco that use Mixpanel on their website where the VP of sales is between 25-32 years of age.Weve used at least 10 lead generation services for our team, said Brian Trautschold ofY Combinator-backed sales startup Ambition in an emailed statement. Most work OK, but none are fantastic. I started using Legion two months ago and I cant imagine going back. Opening my email with new leads every morning is so simple, fits perfectly into my workflow and makes my life so much easier.Rodriguez and Ozdemir met at Johns Hopkins Unviersity, where Rodriguez was a student and Ozdemir was a lecturer. They became interested, Ozdemir said, in the quetionof, How do we use peoples online data to really get to know them as people? As they worked, they realized this could be a big help to salespeople.Weve got that culture of lead gen analytics, of making sure customers get the best information and the best experience, Rodriguez said. That experience could flood over to managing your mail drip campaigns [and more]. We want to own that whole process.Oh, and in case you were wondering: Yes, its a punny name based on the similarity between lead gen and legion.