Congratulations Lenovo, you just produced the most accurate iPhone 6 ripoff! The company just unveiled a new phablet called the Lenovo Phab Plus. Its huge, and it looks exactly like an iPhone 6. The company might think that it can pull this off due to the different form factor, but there is no way you cant see an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus in these pictures:The Phab Plus is a 6.8-inch device, making it look more like a small tablet than a phablet. The reasoning behind this product is that many people want to use their tablets as their phones, but they currently need to carry two devices. Lenovo states that the Phab Plus is the best of both worlds.This phone features two SIM slots, Android 5.0, a 13-megapixel rear camera as well as a 5-megapixel front camera with a front flash. It has 32GB of storage and runs with a Snapdragon 615 octa-core system on a chip with 2GB of RAM.This phone is so big that there is a one-hand feature that lets you shrink down the entire display to the bottom left or bottom right corner. The company clearly targets its home market as it was announced a few days ago in China before the big IFA unveiling. It will be available later this month for $299 in the U.S.Coming back to the design ripoff. As you know, the iPhone 6 comes in silver, gold and space gray. The Phab Plus comes in titanium silver, champagne gold and gunmetal grey. It has the same metal unibody design technique with the same plastic lines for the antennas. There are two visible screws at the bottom of the device, like on the iPhone 6. The only notable difference is that the front glass isnt curved on the edges.Lenovo isnt the only manufacturer that blatantly rips competitors off. Xiaomi has a good track record for example. But it doesnt mean that we shouldnt call these companies out.The iPhone 6 is a popular phone, but it doesnt even have a great design. Its very slippery and many iPhone 6 Plus owners have dropped their phone on the floor. Some people didnt use a case with the iPhone 5s but had to use one because of the rounded edges and slippery design. So please Lenovo, try harder next time.