Lexumo, a Cambridge, Massachusetts cloud servicethat continuously checks open source code to be sure it has the latest security updates, announced a solid $4.89 million seed round today.The round was led byAccomplice, .406 Ventures and Draper.What has Lexumo created to warrant that kind of financial attention? It indexed all of the open source code in the world and created a cloud security service aimed at helping companies using open source code inside embedded systems or enterprise software. These groups can submit their code to the Lexumo service and it checks for any known security vulnerabilities. Whats more, itwill then continuously monitor the code for updates and inform developers when oneisavailable.The serviceprovides an automated to way to keep the code secure, a process that has been difficult if not impossible for companies using open source code in their software to trackthemselves,Brad Gaynor, CEO at Lexumo told TechCrunch.The company recognized that developers were using open source libraries to quickly build and distribute software, but lacked the personnel to track updates (or understand how it would affect the existing code to implement thoseupdates).[Open source communities]are finding security vulnerabilities and building new code into new release and the companies using the [open source] code cant keep up., Gaynor said.He stresses its not just about pointing out vulnerabilities and fixes because sometimesthe update could include changes to the API or the interface and the developer just wants to patch the security vulnerability. Lexumo solves that by providinga custom patch for those types of cases. Upgrading isnt the answer all the time, Gaynor explained.The companys roots go backabout five years ago inside of Draper Labs, an MIT-based not-for-profit research organization. The group, which was spun last year as an independent company, began looking at cyber security and came up with a way to index all the worlds open source code to make it searchable. The team recognized this had value, but werent sure how to apply it at first.At that point, we had this ability to analyze the worlds open source software.We iterated a lot with that. We were sitting with a hammer looking for a nail, he said.They settled on this idea of exposing open source code security vulnerabilities as a service. At a time where we keephearing about a tightening funding environment, almost $5 millionis a healthy seed round by any measure.Its indicative that this large market is underserved. Ourtechnology and business model addresses an unmet need in embedded systems, Gaynor said.