Reminder: Almost 90per cent of the revenue of the company formerly known as Google  grandlyrebranded Alphabetthis fall, even if everyone, including me, is still going to callGoogle Google comes from advertising.Mountain Viewsannual revenue is around$69 billion at this point. Itmakesalmost all (89 per cent) of thatmoney-mountainfrom ads. It might like you to think of it as an alphabetic spectrum of moonshot technology bets  whether thatshacking death,accelerating life science research, building autonomous cars or making terrifying robots  but at baseGooglesbusiness is all about profiling peopleforad delivery. So its business model is all about your eyeballs.Seen from that perspective, its entirely unsurprisingly how multi-prongeda push Google ismaking to stokethe VR market right now. Imbundling virtual reality and augmented reality together here, into one general sight-disrupting package. Sure there are differences in immersion level between AR and VR but in generalthe two technologies are about injecting something digital into a users field of view. And Google plays in both areas, skewing more towards the AR side right now.Firstly theres Googles unlovedface wearable, Glass. Publicly confirmed in April 2012, and made available to developers the following year. Its stalled as a product right nowbut isstill apparently under development.Apatent emerged recently showing a glasses-less version of Glass, still with a tiny screen positioned above the wearers left eye (as my TC colleague Romain Dillet pointed out, this version of Glassresemblesamonocle.)Whatever the next incarnation of Glass, it looks pretty clear there will be one.And thats rathersurprising given how little general consumer interest Google managed to drivefor the first wave of Glass. Indeed, it managed to inspirethe polar opposite sentiment amongnon-nerds generatinga pejorative descriptor (Glassholes) to describe wearers of the gizmo. Not a great start then.Next, at a cheaper price-point, and generally designed as more of a crowd-pleaser, theres Google Cardboard. Announced inJune 2014,this is Googles budget VR headset. Its literally made from cardboard and a couple of lenses  just pop in your smartphone, fire up the Google cardboard app and experience a degree of immersion within various digital arenas, includingGoogles StreetViewvirtual world tour and 360 degree YouTube videos.Google has alsoworked with GoPro on a VR rig to encourage the capture of360 degreecontent exclusively for high profile YouTube celebrities who maintainalarge number of followers.Cardboard is a low risk bet for Google to try to drum up mass market interest in VR, and an equal and opposite pushto try to get more people making content for VR by buildinga market for such content. Content, like cardboard, is cheap yetcritical ifVR is to become anything close to mainstream.And then theres Googles moonshot bet in the category:Magic Leap. Google is an investor in the AR company thathas yet to release any products but continues toattract vastamounts of VC funding. Just this week it emerged Magic Leap is raising an $827 million Series C funding round  which brings thetotal raised since it was founded back in 2010 to around $1.4 billion. Sure its not Uber levels of funding. But for a company not yet really explaining its product let alone selling anything its pretty stand out.Mountain Viewis one of multiple investors here, but Googles Sundar Pichai also sits on the Magic Leapboard. And Googleled a $542 million investment round in the company last year. So its actively spearheading the funding drive.Discussing Magic Leap thisMarch, Pichai said Google sees broad use-cases for the augmented reality tech, stressing it sees much wider applicationsthan meregaming. The tech itself remains under wraps but will reportedly relyonsome kind of lightweight wearable, and  unlike Glass orCardboard  wont involvelooking through or at ascreen.The founder of Magic Leap, Rony Abovitz, has talked about a dynamic digital light field signal which apparently tricks your brain into thinking whatever digital object its seeing is actually embedded into  not pasted onto  thereal world. Hes alsotalked about Magic Leapturning the world intoyour new desktop or your new silver screen. And creating a kind of cinematic reality.Frankly its a pitch that sounds tailor-made to get Google salivating.The lattersmotivation to invest in VR is clear. Webadvertising is embroiled ina tricky transition to mobile devices where ads on small screens are always an unwelcome irritant for device users. Add to that,more of peoples attention is being siloed into appsanyway, rather than directed at general web browsing. And if all that wasnt bad enough, the specter of ad blocking is rearing its head on mobiletoo. Google is staring at a seismic shift in digital consumption that threatens to undermine its corebusiness model.As connected mobile devices continue pulling peoples attention away fromthe search-drivenweb, Google really needsa way to bring awiderweb back into the frame  and an ability to insert artificialcontentinto areal-worldview is a tantalizing prospect for the company. One which envisagesanopening up ofthe digital displaycanvasagain, with space for marketing messagesto stretch their legs again. Hence Googlebetting on VRfrom all angles: big (Magic Leap), budget (Cardboard) and business-oriented (Glass).From a consumer point of view, if you thought virtual reality was going to be all flying whales, adorablerobots and slayable zombies magically manifesting in your living room, think again. The big entity driving developments here is a company whose overriding interest is finding new ways to insert adverts into your field of view. So Magic Leaps greatest trick might actually turn out to be an ability to camouflage advertising as something thatengages theeye for long enough to disgorge amarketing message. At least thats what Google will be hoping.But if consumers hate adverts interrupting their web browsing ormobile usage, it seems unlikely theyre going to be delighted byads jumpingdirectly intotheir eyeballs. Web users reserve a special kind of hatred for pop-ups. Soeven 3D lifelike pop-ups arent aboutto get a pass. Especially as the VR user willundoubtedly behoping to seesomething a lot more entertaining than an artificial polar bear that pops open a Coca Cola. Or a virtualclownpointing across the street at an actualMcDonalds.Allthree of Googles disruptive VR betswillonly be as effective asthe length of time they remain wrapped around wearerseyeballs. Soif advertisers havetheir wicked way with this tech, anyhoneymoon period for the kind of hyperimmersive augmented realityMagic Leap is apparentlycooking up could turn out to bevery briefindeed.