Last week, when Helsinki-based Angry Birds publisher Rovio confirmed it would cut 213 jobs, it also said it would shutdown its education division, with some of itseducation employees forming aspinoff. Today, an educational gaming startup called Lightneer is launching in Helsinki. It isnot the spinoff Rovio had referred to. Butthat doesnt make it any less infused with Rovio DNA: Lightneer isco-founded and staffed by Rovio alums, and its being backed by Mighty Eagle Peter Vesterbacka and Niklas Hed, Rovios co-founder.LightneerCEOLauri Jrvilehto says that the company is in the process of raising a substantial seed round that should be closed in coming weeks, and that it will reveal details of its first game by the end of the year, with the first version of the app to launch in 2016.Its a startup worth watching considering that collectively this team has to date been involved with some50 published titles with collective downloads of 3 billion and revenues of nearly $1 billion.Lightneer is the brainchild ofJrvilehto andLauri Konttori, respectively the co-creator of Rovios now-shuttered learning division and the Rovios former creative director. The two have been tinkering with the idea of learning through gameplay for years now and have some very firm ideas of what doesnt work in many educational games today.Jrvilehto  who also founded and directed a think tank called the Helsinki Academy of Philosophy eschewsgamification and the concept of standard learning ushered throughbranded content. He believes both of themare gimmicky. Instead, the concept here seems to be that the process of playing a game will be the learning experience in itself.He says this idea partly came out of the gameplay of Angry Birds itself.We dont need to gamify learning because games are already learning experiences, he said. If you gave a copy of Angry Birds to a five year-old, that child would learn the process of the game and its increasing complexity by playing it. If I were to create a spreadsheet of the parameters to play Angry Birdsat level 100, for example, there is a substantial amount of information there.The somewhat highbrow approach is also carried through in the startups name. The companys namesake, Lightneer, alludes to a person who combines the audacity and vision of a philosopher with the practicality and grit of an engineer, the company notes.Jrvilehto tells me that the idea for the startup wasactually four years in the making  in other words, dating to a time when Angry Birds and Rovio were still riding high.Lauriand I had an idea about a particular game that we never were able to make at Rovio, said Jrvilehto.It may have been because of Rovios fixation on how to further the Angry Birds brand that the pairs idea never got the green light.So we developeda bit of a hobby where we met in the evenings and tried to figure out how the game would work anyway. He said that the pieces began to click together in June of this year after four years of prototyping. After they showed their work to Vesterbacka and Hed, the pair were enthusiastic to back them and get the ball rolling.Lightneer was just one of those all too rare opportunities to support something that feels fresh and vital, said Niklas Hed in a statement. In addition to giving financial backing, thetwo Rovio execs are also on Lightneers board.There is a pattern to having games entrepreneurs resurfacing at new ventures. Gaming  as we have seen not just by the fate of Rovio, but also in the ups and downs of companies like King and Zynga  is a very cyclical business, with the success of one hit waning as a new hit comes along. While Rovio continues to search for a way to rekindle its own fire afterAngry Birds place at the top, its not a surprise to see some of the talent moving on to try to create whatever might come next.But what all of this will really boil down to is if Lightneer can strike gold with a catchy product.WhileJrvilehto would not say what the first game will be about, he did describe a card game that could help a person learn and better memorize a series of historical figures that he says will be something that the startup plans to explore further down the road.The other interesting detail about this educational games startup is that its not trying to tie up with any educational groups while its in development. One of the fundamental things about us is that were going straight to the consumer, saidJrvilehto. One of our main guidelines is that we need to create a game that stands as a game against the best out there.
