Line, the Japanese messaging app with 205 million active users, iscontinuing its push into entertainment services after it began testing a standalone $2 per monthmusic streaming app.Line Music is being trialled in Thailand, where Line has carried out a series of other pilots related to its shift into value-added services. The appis available for iOS and Android and is integrated into the chat app to allow users to share songs with Line friends, or post to their timeline inside the app.Line declined to say how many tracks the new service has. The company has signed licensing deals with a number of musiclabels in Thailand, includingRS Music, so the Line Music catalog is likely to be in the hundreds of thousands at this point. But, rather than challenging Spotify and co, this is an initiativeto see whether Lines most devoted users will pay up for entertainment  Thailand, with over 30 million registered Line users, is the companys second-largest market behind its native Japan.Initially, Line is offering Music users one month of free access to the service, after which the $2 per month fee will kick in. The companyis hoping that the promise of exclusive content from Thai artists  and tracks from overseas acts  will convince users to stump up for the service. Thats no sure thing, since music streaming remains nascent in Southeast Asia, with Deezer the only international service present inThailand.Linedeclined tosay whether it will expand the service into other markets, but it does appear to have global aspirations for a music streaming service. In December of last year, Line partnered with two Japanese labels to create a music-streaming business, but so far Thailand is the first market where it has introduced such a service.Thailand has also served as the test bed for a number of other initiatives, including a YouTube-like TV service  which has since expanded into Taiwan, Lines third-largest market based on users  and a shopping feature, which the company hopes willdevelop into a grocery-delivery service.Line makes more than half of its revenue from in-app purchases from titles on its connected games platform, but the company is diversifying its business to avoid relying onthe often-fickle nature of gaming.The Japanese companyisnt alone in making that move. Chinas top messaging app, WeChat, operates e-commerce and other commercial business in addition to games. The same applies to Kakao Talk, Koreas top messaging app, which includes payment serviceandtaxi-hailing services.Line also offers paymentsworldwide and a service rivaling Uber in Japan, but the company is testing initiatives that could unlock new revenue from overseas markets  like Thailand and Taiwan where it is almost certainly making less money per user than in its native Japan. These services may also increase engagement from users by providing more than just chat.The timing of Line Musics launch is interesting since the servicesurfaced one day after MixRadio, the music service Line acquired from Microsoft, finally launched for iOS and Android devices. Line confirmed to us that the two services are being run independently of each other.Line was last year tipped to pursue a joint U.S.-Japan listing, although that plan appeared to be scrapped. The company confirmed in April that it had renewed its IPO license, though it didnt commit to anything beyond that. This week, however, Bloomberg reportedthat a dual listing is again on the cards for September time.There are ongoing discussions among our management, and an IPO is one option among many, but we have yet to reach a final decision, a spokesperson for Line told us.Either way,generating increased revenue from outside of Japan could massively boost the companys valuation and appeal to investors.