The draft text of anagreement between the EU and the U.S. to establisha new self-certification framework governing transatlantic data flows aimed atensuring data protection and privacy compliance when Europeans data is taken to the U.S. for processing has now been published. But questions remain over whether the deal is robust enough to pass muster.The so-called EU-US Privacy Shield is aimed at replacing the defunct Safe Harbor agreement, which was struck down last Octoberby Europes top court, the ECJ, on the grounds that U.S. mass surveillance programs were violating fundamental European privacy rights.Since then, officials from the two regions have stepped up efforts to negotiate a replacement for Safe Harbor, whichthey announced with much fanfare in early February albeit, at the time, without releasing the text of the agreement. That next step has now been taken, allowing for closer scrutiny of the proposed new deal.The publication of the textfollowsPresident Obama signing the Judicial Redress Act into law  which grantsEU citizens the right to enforce data protection rights in the U.S.; a key stipulation of the EC negotiators.In a statement noting the publication of the draft agreement and layering on the political PR, U.S. Secretary of Commerce, Penny Pritzker, dubbed it a strong and historic agreement.The EU-U.S. Privacy Shieldis atremendousvictoryfor privacy, individuals, andbusinesses on both sides of the Atlantic.We havespent more than two years constructing a modernized and comprehensive frameworkthataddresses the concerns of the European Court of Justice and protects privacy, she said.Our U.S. and EUnegotiatorsworked around the clock to develop a new framework thatunderpins $260 billion in digital services trade across the Atlantic. ThenewEU-U.S. Privacy Shieldprovides certainty that will help grow the digital economy by ensuring that thousands of European and American businessesand millionsofindividuals can continue to access services online.Commissioner Vera Jourov, who led negotiations from the European side, was a little more measured in her rhetoric.The EU-U.S. Privacy Shield is a strong new framework, based on robust enforcement and monitoring, easier redress for individuals and, for the first time, written assurance from our U.S. partners on the limitations and safeguards regarding access to data by public authorities on national security grounds, she said, talking of strong safeguards andrestoring trust.Despite the high-level congratulatory noises, the Privacy Shield is still not yet a done deal  with otherparts of the European political machinery and individual European member states needing to accept the agreement. Most notably the Article 29 WP will have to be convinced.This body is comprised of representatives from all the member states data protection authorities the role of whomisstrengthened under Europes own new data protection directive, agreed at the back end of last year.In a press conferencereacting to news ofthe Privacy Shield dealearlier this month,the WP29 said it was not then in a position to judge the agreement  not having yet seen the now released full text. The WP29will now be assessingwhether thedealcananswer to wider concerns raised by the court case thatinvalidated Safe Harbor, brought to the ECJ by European privacy campaigner and lawyer Max Schrems.The WP29 called for the documents pertaining to the Privacy Shield to be delivered to it by the end of February  so the EC has just managed to squeak through on the extra day afforded by 2016s Leap Year. In terms of next steps, the WP29 said it will be holding a meeting next month to assess the text, and has previously said it couldcome to a conclusion on whether the Privacy Shield is acceptable by mid-April or the end of April.Beyond the WP29s assessment, it is also notclear that an agreed Privacy Shield will be able to deliverthe certainty businesses crave.On this front, giving hisearly reaction to the text in a press statement, Schrems couchesthe deal as anattempt to put a lot of lipstick on the same old data-suckling pig#PrivacyShield: They put ten layers of lipstick on a pig but I doubt the Court&DPAs suddenly want to cuddle with it pic.twitter.com/gfkMexCruh Max Schrems (@maxschrems) February 29, 2016And while he concededthe text contains a large number of new improvements, vis-a-vis EU-U.S. data transfers,he argued itdoes not address the core concerns and fundamental flaws of US surveillance law and the lack of privacy protections under US law  and is therefore vulnerable to future legalchallenges.Schrems notes, for example, that a page from one of the documentspublished todaysets out six exceptions where the U.S. can still collect data in bulk  namely:detecting and countering certain activities of foreign powers; counterterrorism; counter-proliferation; cybersecurity; detecting and countering threats to U.S. or allied armed forces; and combating transnational criminal threats, including sanctions evasion  going on toargue the ECJ ruling made it clear that no such bulk-based surveillance activity is acceptable under European privacy law.The Court held that any form of mass surveillance of content data violates the EUs Charter of Fundamental Rights and that a country has to provide essentially equivalent protections to EU law in the public and private sector, Schremswrites.Hes not the only data protectionlaw expertwith that view eitherThe CJEU has consistently considered *gathering* data to be intrusive, not just access. The #PrivacyShield does not seem to accept this. Paul Bernal (@PaulbernalUK) February 29, 2016Schrems is also dismissive of the claimthe Privacy Shield dealprovides for essential equivalence of European data privacy protection in the U.S.The new deal does not even address the matter of private sector data misuse, despite the fact that there would have been much more leeway than in the government sector. There are tiny improvements, but the core rules on private data usage are miles away for EU law. This is nowhere close to essential equivalence that the Court required, he writes.At first sight the Commission decision seems to unfortunately go right back to the Court in Luxembourg. Its a shame that the European Commission has not used this situation to come up with a stable solution for users and businesses. I guess most businesses will not engage in the Privacy Shield as their main legal basis for EU-US data transfers given its obvious limitations. There will be a number of people that will challenge this decision if it ever comes out this way  and I may very will be one of them.#PrivacyShield continues to only limit TWO (!) processing operations!Comparison with EU law [PICTURES] #Equivalent? pic.twitter.com/V1rgcM37of Max Schrems (@maxschrems) February 29, 2016In an interesting additional observation, Schrems furthersuggests the draft agreementappears toinclude a provision thatallows individual DPAs to suspend data flows to the U.S. in their own country even if a company is Privacy Shield certified  suggesting there could be scope for some of the morepro-privacy DPAs (such as Frances CNIL or German DPAs) to attack aspects of theagreement that they do not agree with. Presumably unless the WP29 agrees to adopta common position.This means basically that there is no legal certainty for businesses that a Privacy Shield certification ensures continuous data flows. Any national DPA can simply pull the plug under this system, Schremssuggests.For its part, the EC is arguing thatdata protection equivalence will be delivered for EU citizens data in the U.S. under the Privacy Shield via what it says arestrong obligations on companies and robust enforcement via supervision mechanisms to ensure companies respect their obligations, including sanctions or exclusion if they do not comply, as well astighterconditions for onward transfers to other partners by companies participating in the scheme; written assurances from the U.S. government that national security access to data will be subject to clear limitations, safeguards and oversight mechanisms, with a redress possibility via an independent ombudsman mechanism within the Department of State; a 45-day period for complaints to be resolved by companies which allows forEU citizens to also complain via their national DPA; and an annual joint review mechanism to monitor how the agreement is functioning over time.The U.S. authorities provided strong commitments that the Privacy Shield will be strictly enforced and assured there is no indiscriminate or mass surveillance by national security authorities, the EC adds in todays statement.On the politicalsleight of hand that seeks to makeoverillegalmasssurveillance asapparently acceptable bulk collection in six specific circumstances,Schrems is especially scathing.Basically the US openly confirms that it violates EU fundamental rights in at least six cases, he writes, noting the six in bulk exceptions listed above. The Commission claims that there is no bulk surveillance anymore. It used to be the other way around.This charade is so bluntly against the law and the Court judgement, that it begs the question what forces push the Commission in the background. This is obviously not driven by a rational implementation of the law and the judgement.