If the connected home has struggled with anything overthe past few years its accessibility. Ease of use has been improving rapidlybut most internet-connected devices are still multiples more expensive than their dumb home alternatives.Lockitron has been in the smart home space since 2011, and has really seen the environmentevolve heavilyover the past few years as the industry haswitnessed more consumers welcomes these classes of products into their homes. Today, the companylaunched thethird iteration of their connected door lock, the Lockitron Bolt.The new device, available in Modern and Quicksilver finishes, boasts a familiar look but whats new is its most-affordable entry-price to date, just $99. The device ships in late November, and continues with previous models feature sets, allowing users to automatically unlock their front door with Bluetooth before their hand even touches the door handle. With a special Bridge device users are also capable of unlocking their door fortheir friends and family from anywhere in the world.Since the earliest days of Lockitron, weve always had one, steadfast mission  universalaccess. The key is a very rudimentary way of giving someone permission to come into yourhome or office. Software comes with none of those limitations. With software we can do somuch more, Lockitron co-founder Paul Gerhardt said in a statement.Lockitron is also giving consumers one more way to open their doors, via a new hardware upgrade coming to the Lockitron in early 2016, the Bolt Keypad, available for $149 for new customers ad $49 for existing Bolt owners. With the Bolt Keypad, home owners can set dedicated pin codes for individual persons from their app.The company is really looking to open up the way that multiple users open the door lock. With Lockitron Access, the company is catering to new spaces by introducing a system especially designed for offices and co working spaces, allowing employees simple and secureaccess through the connected locking system.With these new products, its clear Lockitron is aiming to drastically improvethe approachabilityoftheir product, not only through new physical features like the Bolt Keypad but through the sheer accessibility of a $99 price tag.