Its hard to believe, but freighttruckoperatorslogged astunning 54 billion miles in theU.S. last year without carrying anyinventory, according to industry data.The reason: theywere trying to get to their next gig.Thats alarming news, considering how bad trucking is for the environment. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, trucking is the largest contributor to freight-related air pollution in the U.S., with heavy duty trucks contributing 22 percent to all transportation-sector greenhouse gas emissions. It may seem counterintuitive given advancements in engine efficiency, but the DOT thinks it owes to the growth of just-in-time shipments, which is increasing congestion and idling.Transfix, a two-year-old, 26-person, New York-based transportation startup, convincingly argues that itsmobile app and web platform are beginning to eat into the problem. Its techmatches customers needing interstate freight shipping with truck drivers needing to make deliveries, cutting out wasted travel.The fleet management system also enables uses to track shipments, SMS drivers, receive alerts when a shipment will be delayed, and calculate drivers fuel taxes, among other things.One of Transfixsbiggest competitors isC.H. Robinson, a publicly traded incumbentthats focused on providing third-party logistics to the roughly 400,000 trucking companies in the US, 97 percent of which are family-owned operations with fewer than 20 trucks. The 110-year-old company iscurrently valued at $9.7 billion, but Transfix CEO Drew McElroy an affable second-generation industry veteran who attended Georgetown before taking overhis parents own small butsuccessful brokerage business fully expects that numberto trend downward.C.H. Robinsonbasically has anarmy of college kids who see a jobpop up on a screen, pick up the phone, and start calling thesetrucking companies from a stagnantdatabase of numbers, says McElroy. From there, he continues, everything is done manually, from tracking a shipment to contacting drivers. Ittakes four hours to execute a shipment from soup-to-nuts, whereas in our world, weve automated so much of the process that it takes 15 minutes per shipmentand that number is dropping every day.Of course, Transfix isnt alone is spying a giant industryin need of a serious tech makeover. The overall size of the U.S. trucking market is $700 billion. The total size of the freight brokerage market is $80 billion. As a result, were seeing more and moretrucking-related startups receive funding, including CargoMaticand Trucker Path, which have so farraised $10.6million and $21.5 million, respectively.(CargoMatic focuses on local shipping; Trucker Path is a more direct competitor to Transfix.)Now Transfix has a new round of its own. This morning, its announcing $12 million in Series A fundingled by Canvas Ventures, with participation from earlier investorsLerer Hippeau Ventures, Founder Collective,Corigin Ventures, and Bowery Capital. Theround brings its total funding to$14 million, and italready has big plans for it.Part of it will go toward increasing headcount; McElroy says Transfix should employ 75 people by this time next year.Muchof the capital will be invested in product improvements. On Transfixs productroadmap, for example, are social networking tools, so ifa driver wants toget a poker game startedat a particular truck stop, he can alert nearby drivers6,000of whom have now signed up for the platform.Not last, Transfix, which expects to seeone million dollars in revenue this month, will usepart of that capital to get truckers paid within 24 hours of a completed shipment.Thats no small enticement.According to McElroy, many drivers are still reliant on a process called factoring, whereinstead of waiting weeks or months to be paid by customers or brokers, drivers sell their invoices to shops called factors thatpay them immediatelyminus3.5 percent to 5 percent what theirowed for the convenience.Says McElroy  who insists thatTransfix takes a much smaller cut of transactions across the board:Itsa mess. Its even worse than Im describing. Its avery insidious business that, frankly, well wind up destroying by accident if we do things correctly.