Looker is trying to simplifythe way companies use analytics and today it announced $48 million in Series C funding to continue the mission.The round was led by Kleiner PerkinsCaufield & Byers (KPCB). Previous investors Redpoint Ventures, Meritech and Sapphire Ventures also participated. This round doubles their total raised to date to $96 million.This funding round comes less than year after a$30 million raise last March. The company has reportedphenomenal 400 percent revenue growth whileexpanding from 150 customers last year to over 450 today.The customer list is impressive by any measure including newer companies like Uber, Warby Parker, Etsy and Instacart and older school companies like Intel, PayPal, eBay and Yahoo.CEOFrank Bien says the company still has plenty of money in the bank, but it moved forward withthis round now becausethe moneywas there,and he wasnt sure what the funding environment could look like in the next 9-12 months. Sensing uncertainty ahead, hewanted to keep the focus on continuing to grow the company rather than trying to raisemoney in a possibly more hostile environment down the road.Alex Kurland, partner at KPCB whose firm led the round, wasnt about to speculate on how the funding situationmay fare in the coming year, but he said quality companies aregoing to be able to raise money in any environment.In regards to Looker, they solved a hard problem. They built an analytics product people want to use, he said.He sees a company with a superior leadership team and great customers whose employees love the product. During their research, KPCBfound Looker wasgetting deep penetration inside customer organizations with as many as 80 percent of employees reportedlyusing the product inside some customers.Bien sees a Silicon Valley culture thats a bit problematicin terms of how you build a company and he wants to do it in a more traditional way.Were doing it the old fashioned way with referenceable customers and putting [the right] things in place.Weve set an aggressive plan and will continueto be aggressive. We beatplan 12 quarters in a row. Thats how you build great companies, he said.The company offers an analytics platformthat Bien says has been designed toappeal to everyone from database managers to developers to end users who need to work with the data to do their jobs.As companies collect data, they first built data warehouse and today whats called a data lake with different streams of data coming from various sources. What Looker does is connect in real time to any SQL data store and then allow the more technical users to manipulate the data using Lookers SQL dialect called LookML.As Biendescribes it, when it comes to accessing data, endusers arent beholden to the data experts to get at the data, but the data scientists can do sophisticated analysis and developers can build applications on top of the data, giving everyone the type of access they need to these data sources.Courtesy of Looker.The company, which plans to expand into Asia and the EU this year, currently has around 200 employees. It plans to double that in the coming the year.