All the energy for venture funds flows from LPs the money goes from LPs to partners at funds, which in turn invest in startups.But since the number of IPOs and exits has started to dry up, the pressure is starting to rise on LPs, and Venture Investment Associates Chris Douvos knows it. And he made it abundantly clear to investors on a panel at TechCrunch Disrupt NY today.Theres this huge exit sphincter, Douvos said. So were pushing this capital out and were kind of feeding the snake, LPs give money to GPs, GPs give to startups, startups get liquid and it comes back to LPs and the cycle starts over again. When youve got this exit sphincter and the snake is getting packed fuller and fuller, it reminds me for those of you familiar with the Wu Tang Clan theres a song calledMethod Man where one of the methods of torture they talk about is, Im gonna sew your rectum shut and keep feeding you, thats what its like to be an LP today.Thats not too surprising on a take of the current state of the technology market. There have been a fraction of a fraction of the number of technology IPOs the market typically sees in the first part of the year. That means that liquidity for investors  and, in turn, LPs, has started to stall, and that means that funds might start looking at alternative asset classes.It used to be private companies would aspire to go public, First Round Capitals Josh Kopelman said on stage. Were at the rare moment in time its the opposite. The minor league ball players are getting paid far more than the MVP major league players. Until that works itself out in the market its gonna create a really challenging time for these companies valued in the private markets to realize anything in the public markets.Still, venture funds are still finding ways to raise new huge funds. Andreessen-Horowitz, for example, is talking to investors about raising$1.5 billion for its latest fund, and other funds have been able to raise hundreds of millions  if not billions  in new funds. Firms seem to have shifted to raising new funds every two years or so, which is also putting some pressure on LPs.All the energy comes from us, if the LPs stop showing up the trees will wither, Douvos said. That sounds grandiose, but one of the challenges is the pool of LP capital isnt infinite, dollars going into VC compete at the institutions where these dollars come from against other asset classes whats most attractive. One of the challenges venture faces is the furthest out money, theyre the longest option, and as a result theres a lot of pressure.While all this is happening, venture funds dont actually look too bad on paper. In the past few years valuations have risen significantly, making funds look like they will have good returns  if they have the exits to back it up. And so far, those exits havent shown up, and LPs and funds of funds need those exits to show up in order to actualize their returns.Still, there are buyers, like Apple, Facebook and Google. But those companies are looking for more strategic fits in terms of tech, talent, and filling holes, Kopelman said. And that means that companies that havent quite figured out their fundamentals, or the right way to value companies against comparables, thats making it challenging for companies to figure out how to exactly value companies they may potentially acquire.Theres a high level of [M&A] activity, but I dont know if theres a high level of desire to pay prices divorced from fundamentals, Union Square Ventures Andy Weissman said on stage. It seems like there was more of that in the past,but its less now.While firms talk about a downturn, and dropping valuations, it isnt anywhere close to what struck the market around 2001 and 2002, Kopelman said.As the markets gotten choppy over the last couple quarters, you have a whole generation of founders and funders who have never been through a downturn.If youre been in the industry for the last 7 years youve seen straight up. I dontthink its ever as bad as people think it is.One of their secrets of success has been getting off the bus one stop too early rather than one stop too late, Douvos said. But that takes courage, most investorslack courage. Once you say n to a fund, youre forever in that GPsbad graces.