Weve seen bike helmets with integrated front and back lights before. But Boston-based hardware startup Lumos is hoping to go one better by packinga front light, wireless indicator lights and an accelerometer-powered backlight into an otherwise pretty standard-looking cycle helmet. Rechargeable battery included.The team has just pressed play on a Kickstarter campaign, aiming to raise $125,000 in crowdfunding to turn their current prototype into a shipping product starting fromApril next year. Thus fartheyve beenmostly been bootstrapping development, raising a small round at the end of last year from friends, family and a few angels.There are currently no bike helmets in the market that feature integrated brake and turn signal lights. Lumos will be the first to do this, saysco-founder Eu-wen Ding, when asked whats new here. This is a huge distinctive feature thatwill help cyclists more effectively communicate their intentions to people around them.He also points toLumos 85 super bright LEDs as a differentiator  claiming the lights are brighter than rivalhelmets.Lumostriangular rear light usesan integrated accelerometer to switch from flashing to a solid red signal when the rider brakes and slows down.While the helmetsleft and right signal light indicators are triggered via a wireless remote that attaches to the bikes handlebars. When wanting to indicate a turn the rider pushes either the left or right button, hearing a beeping sound to confirm the signal has activated.The wireless remote works off a 2.4 GHz RF (Radio Frequency) chip. These RF chips are more than powerful enough to handle the signaling feature and are also robust, reliable, and consume very little power, making it ideal for this use case, says Ding.The remote is perpetually in sleep mode by default, but when you press it, it instantly wakes up, sends its signal to the helmet it is paired with (a 1-1 pairing with the helmet that just needs to be done once during first use), and then powers down again within the space of a few milliseconds. This allows the remote to last for months before its coin cell battery would need to be replaced.Former Harvard Business School student Ding met Lumosotherco-founder, mechanical engineer Jeff Chen, at astartupevent held at the university, where Ding had been pitching hisidea for a connectedbicycle helmet. From there theywent on to a hardwarehackathon at MIT  winning that with an early helmet prototype. At whichpoint Ding decided to drop out of his MBA program to go full time on the project.The team has now been working with a helmet manufacturer in China for the ninemonths, and also went throughthe Hong Kong-basedBrinc accelerator, which focuses on IoT devices, ahead of todayscrowdfunding campaign launch.Were coming to the Kickstarter community now because through the work we have already done, we have brought this project all the way to the pre-production stage and we just need the communitys support to get the money necessary to invest in tooling and a full production run, saysDing.Remaining development work that needs to be done is more on the production side of things, setting up our manufacturing process and ironing out the kinks that inevitably develop when setting up a new assembly line for a new product for the first time, he adds.The Lumos helmet has an early bird Kickstarter backer price of $85, stepping up to $99 and $119 thereafter. At the time of writing the campaign has already passed the $50,000 mark, less than an hour after launching, so the team is well on its way to getting the project funded.