Supplier management probably doesnt sound like the most exciting problem for a startup to solve, but Lystablecould actually be doing something crucial for its customers. As businesses find themselves relying on an external workforce of freelancers and vendors, Lystable helps them manage those relationships.Were facilitating a new way of working, said founder and CEO Peter Johnston.The TechStars-incubated companyjust finished itson-stage presentationat Disrupt London. We first wrote about Lystable earlier this year, andtoday its launching a new website and opening up to more customers. Its also announcing that it has raised a total of $3.5 million in seedfunding.Johnston has worked at companies like Google and M&C Saatchi as a designer and manager. In severalof those roles, he found himself spending more time working with freelancers and agencies than he did actually designing  eventually, he realized that this is a broad problemthats causing a lot of pain for a lot of companies.Johnston said most companies use spreadsheets to manage their freelancers, or customer databases like Salesforce.com  which kinda, sorta work, but werent really built for thatpurpose.A CRM has norankings, no payments, no index and categories, he told me. But beyondthat if youre trying to scale up to using 2,000 vendors per month, you need something thats fit for purpose.For example, lets say TechCrunch wanted to hire a freelance photographer to take pictures at Disrupt. With Lystable, we could bring up a list of photographers weve worked with in the past, ranked by how our team members rated their skills. We could also browse sample photos, see who theyve worked with at TechCrunch and even use message templates to reach out quickly and easily.Lystable has built an equivalent product for the freelancers themselves, and for other suppliers, where they can lyst their services, accept jobs and request payment.To be clear, Lystable isnt meant to compete with awesomeproduct management softwarelike Basecamp, Johnston said. In fact, it allows users to import their project data from Basecamp into Lystable.Nor is the companybuilding a marketplace where businesses can find freelancers. Johnston acknowledged that customers sometimes ask for those types of features, but usually, they realize that their team already knows plenty of freelancers  they just dont have a good way to unearth the information.And while Johnstons first examplefocused on publishers, he said that many types of companies need to manage freelancersand vendors,with Lystable being used by everyone from hospitals to law firms.The companyhas been working directly with large enterprises (customers mentioned on-stage include Google and The Economist), but its now allowing small and medium businesses to sign up on more of a self-serve basis. The company is still experimenting with pricing  its a freemium model, though, with a basic version of the product available for free.As for the funding, Johnston said it comes from Peter Thiels Valar Ventures, Toba Capital, Playfair Capital, Spring Partners and Backed VC. Among other things, the additionalcapitalwill allow Lystable to open a San Francisco office, though Johnstonexpects the core technical team to remain in London.Q&A With JudgesQ: Congratulations on those impressive customers. Whats the scale of implementation in each business?A: It always starts with one team, then expands as information gets shared between teams. It can eventaully reach 500 customers in one company.Q: Who is the buyer internally? And how long is the sales cycle?A: The buyer changes from company to company. One thing they have in common is that theyre creating content online. The sales cycle is down to three months in some cases.Q: What are your plans for the next 12 months? Are you going to focus on a specific industry?A: We just opened an office in San Francisco, and we want to make sure the product stays as agnostic as possible.Q: Who do your customers compare you to?A: Workmarket.com, but theyre focused more on traditional freelancer management.Q: Could you turn this into a marketplace to connect businesses and freelancers/vendors?A: No plans right now, but were open to it.Q: How different is this process from company to company?A: Its very similar, which is why were focusing on a platform play. Companies start to have more unique needs when you move into areas like hospitals.Q: Do you handle payments yourself or integrate with existing payment systems?A: We offer integration for now, partly because of the complications of tackling a finance department in abig enterprise, but we want to handle payments in the future.