ipsy, an online makeup subscription delivery service, said today that it had raised $100 million.Users subscribe to ipsy, paying the company $10 per month, which then sends them a monthly package of makeup called a Glam Bag filled with various samples of products. It isnt the only subscription service that targets the beauty industry, but it appears to at least have struck a chordand built a large user base of 1.5 million subscribers, giving the company an annual revenue of more than $150 million.ipsysays it has been profitable for more than three years.The round was led by TPG Growth and Sherpa Capital. A round this large after taking very little or no venture financing isnt entirely unheard of. GoFundMe, for example, was a previously bootstrapped startup that earlier this year raised a venture financing round that valued the company at $600 million. Basically, its an attractive business thats taken little to no outside capital thats making money  something that is going to very quickly attract the attention of investors.ipsy isnt alone in this space, with other companies like Birchbox also delivering makeup samples for $10 per month. But at the very least the presence of multiple companies that have raised large financing rounds  Birchbox raised $60 million in April last year  speaks to the potential market for those startups.Perhaps part of the companys large presence can be traced to itspopularity on YouTube and other social channels where the company is very active. It posts its makeup tutorial videos on YouTube, for example. And as is thecase with many startups, having that focus baked into the companys DNA is important to driving success. In this case at least,Founder Michelle Phan has seen a lot of success on YouTube  her videoshave been viewed more than 1 billion times, and she also a 2015 Peoples Choice Webby Award for the best how-to DIY channel.To be sure, Birchbox also has a large social followinglike ipsy does (though in a Facebook shootout, ipsy has a million more likes than Birchbox does). And all this doesnt necessarily mean ipsy or Birchbox or any others  has cracked some kind of a code on social channels, but at the very least it suggests theres something there. Brands also like working with companies like these in order to drive additional exposure for their products.Given the companys revenue, the involvement of a firm like TPG, which invested in Uber for example, and other big rounds that have happened like GoFundMes for startups with little financing, we think its safe to assume the valuation for the company is north of $500 million  and our sources saythats in the right ballpark.ipsyis just under four years old and prior to this venture financing round, it had raised less than $3 million. It currently has 10,000 content creators as part of its ipsyOpen Studios platform.