Immersive headsets continue to liftoff company drawing boards, inthehopes of powering anew wave of virtual reality in the consumer space whether its the Facebook-ownedOculus Rift, SonysProject Morpheus, MicrosoftsHololensor HTC-ValvesVive, to name a few VR devicesin the works (someothers:FOVE, Razer the list goes on).Big bets are undoubtedly being made that the next wave of gaming will involve wearing something on your face. Itlooks very much like a strategyto reboot the otherwise rather moribund console market. Immersive peripherals offer the prospect of differentiating pro gaming from all thatcasual gaming being conducted on ubiquitousmobile devices  much like 3D movies offer a way for cinemas to compete with the stay-at-home pull of high end flatscreen TVs.Whether gamers will find VR gaming to their liking  or just hideously nausea inducing  remains to be seen. The first VR games are just starting to be detailed. Design challenges abound. But none of that is putting off Dutch startup Manus Machina, which has beenbuilding a data glove input mechanism for usewith virtual realityheadsets since July last year so VR gamers will be able toditch their joysticks.Its aiming to builda pair of flexible, finger-sensinggloves that aredesigned to beworn in conjunction with a VR headset, allowing gamers to view and manipulate their hands and fingers within virtual environments. And whileManus Machina isnot the first company to try its hand (pun intended) at adata glove as an input mechanism, co-founder Stephen van den Brink says other examples have been focused on niche use-cases such asscientific research  whereas the team isaiming is to shipa mainstream consumer product witha price-tag to match.Its basically a glove that accurately tracks what your hand is doing. Its using flex sensors on each fingers, so it senses the bending of the fingers. And it uses an IMUmodule on the back of the hand which tracks the rotation, the yaw, the downward rotation of the hand. It has nine degrees of freedom, he says, explaining the tech. The first prototype was hacked together with a large Arduino board. Now its a custom made PCB. The gloveswont track every type of finger twitchbut aredesigned to track a wide range of movements, from bending single digits, to making a fist and so on.Data gloves already exist a lot of universities already made a glove and there are a lot of mock-up data glove suits already around. But they cost $10k up for each glove, he adds.Manus was showing off its currentworking prototype at the E3 games conference earlier this month (as seen in the below video).One technical challenge its working on isgetting the electronicsto play nice with thestretchable fabric its using forthe glove.van den Brink says its hoping to have a dev kit version of the glove ready in the next two to three months, which will cost $280. The consumer version wont be ready until next year, either Q1 orQ2, he says  with the retailprice-tag for that pegged ataround $200. Its building at cost initially, aiming to make a margin when/if the market for the product scales.As well as the gloves tracking the wearers fingers and the orientationof their hands so gamerscan use their hands as controllers, the wearablewill also provide feedback via a build in tactileengine with the aim of increasing the sense of VR immersion. A battery pack will also be built into the gloves so theres no need for them to be wired in.Positioning of the hands in space is done in conjunction with an external camera. This could be the same camera thats used for VR headset tracking, according tovan den Brink. He says the team isaiming to supportlots of different hardware set-up scenarios (in the below demo the team is using the rear camera on a Samsung smartphone, for instance). And of course wants to be device agnostic, in terms of the VR headsets the gloves can work with.Manus went through the three monthHigh Tech XL startupbootcamp hardware accelerator program, fromNovember last year. And went on to raise700,000 from twolocal Dutch investors affiliated with the program, post-demo day  using some of that financingto get to E3 to start trying to drum up developer interest. Getting devs to make games that make use of granular finger trackingor even just use hand gestures as acontroller mechanism is of course the really big challenge here. The gloves willneed tailor-made games to attract buyers. But VR games as a category are just getting started so theres a whole lot of building to be donehere. Inevitably then, Manus isgroping around in the dark at this nascent stage. And sometimesgroping a bananaThis E3 Oculus showed its first games that will be released with VR, with the big titles. Like Eve, for example. But its all still played with an Xbox controller. And at this moment  this is the year, or the next year is going to be figuring out how do game developers want to have hand presence in games, or want to have kind of a gesture-based system, because you dont actually have to have hand presses in a game you can also do gesture-based, says van den Brink. Thats something we have to figure out with game developers  how you want to implement it.We already have a showcase  a game we made  where you can grab a kitchen rolling pin and use it as a steering device for playing a racing game. You can hold your kitchen rolling pin at the two handles and then just rotate that in space and you can race a bike with it, for example You can go to the kitchen, grab something, a tool from it, and if it resembles a little bit something youre using in the game, like a gun in one of our videos hes playing Portal with a banana. He grabs the banana and it feels like hes holding a gun.Another scenario that sensinggloves suggest being able to pick up virtual objects in a game usingreal-world hand movements  will also be possible using a skeletal hand model in the Manus SDK, so developers could enable collision detection and build games where virtualobjects can be manipulated with a gloved hand. (And presumably some tactile feedback could also be delivered to the gloves to createasense of physicality associated with a virtual object.)But theyre not there yet. Again, developer buy in will be requiredto createcompelling VR gaming experiences where gamerscanmanipulate virtual objects with their gloved hands, and maybe even feel like theyredoing so (or doing something). In the meanwhile Manus has created an interface that will let gamers map keystroke controls of existing games to hand gestures as an alternative control mechanism that turns the gloves into a custom controller. It gives a new way of playing that game. It also feels really different. It feels a little bit more immersive. But of course the best way to use this is if you see your hands in the game and to get it specially made for it, he adds.Over to the games developers then.