The impending sale of Nokias Here mapping division has put a sharp focuson the role that location and maps in particular are playing in the mobile world. And while we are seeing a number of big names emergeas potential Here suitors  they include the likes of Baidu, Uber, Facebook and more  an upstart in San Francisco is hoping to provide its ownviable  and, it believes,superior  alternative.Mapbox, developers of mapping and location data based around the open source-based OpenStreetMap and some other clever sourcing, is launching a free SDK for mobile app developers to use as a replacement for a native mapping system simply by replacing a single line of code.It is launching today for iOS, and, in the words of Mapboxs CEO Eric Gundersen, The APIs are an exact match with (Apples) Mapkit, making it dead easy to switch. He calls iOS Mapboxs beachfront, but adds that the SDKwill also be comingto Android soon.For now, Gundersen says that pricing for the new SDK will befree for up to 50,000 monthly active users. For now is the operative phrase here. Honestly we are not sure how best to charge for MAUs, so we just figured Hey, lets launch this and open up a conversation with developers to help us guide how we should change,' he says.One thing that Mapbox doesnt intend to do is launch its own consumer-facing app to potentially compete with those developers.In other words, Mapbox positionsitself in that still-new category of location provider-as-asset, a place where companies like Waze grew itsbusiness, and where other startups like Foursquare  which has also made a play as a provider of detailed location (but not mapping) data  also hope to find market value longer term.But it wont be building customer-facing services of its own to get there. We are never going to have an app, Gundersen says. We are just going to power the location part of other apps.Up to now, Mapbox has made a name for itself as a provider of highly detailed maps that are able to call out different kinds of detail from what you might get in a typical native map from Google or Apple  for example, topography that takes into account not just the direction of a road but whether it goes up or downhill  useful for planning walking or cycling routes, for example. Up to now a lot of this has been integrated into apps through more lengthy projects.Now Mapbox will be offering four different styles  in addition to terrain, also very detailed streets and light and dark styles for those who want to overlay text, with an option coming soon for designers to build their own styles on top of the raw data as well. All are built usingvideo game graphics technology andrender at a fast 60 frames per second.In the backend, Mapbox also provides a dashboard  illustrated below  that shows how people are movingaround using Mapbox-powered apps. This in turn gives them the ability to drill down and seepopularneighborhoods and other trending location-based data.Apples big decision in 2012tobuild its own mapping service, replacing Google, has seen a lot of criticism thrown at the company for how well it has handled that not-small task up to now.Applehas made severalacquisitions to add more talent to its own location and mapping pool; it is renewing key contracts with mapping data providers like TomTom; and is still looking to hire many moreto fill more roles in that area; but there is still a lot of work to do.Gundersen is openly scornful of how well Apple risen to the task so far, which he believes has created an opportunity for companies like his.Apple isnt just bad at maps, its not taking locationseriously, says Gundersen. Apples analytics looks like Google analytics  in 2007. Our maps are not just better and beautiful. Every developer should know how people are using their apps.In addition to using OSM in its mapping data, Mapbox has been working for some time on other ways of getting more specific and accurate information.While companies like Google, Apple and Nokiause roaming physical vehicles to help record location data for their services, Mapbox has developed a different, software-basedapproach to build its dataset.Its somewhatsimilar to how public WiFi networks becomerepositories of location-based information. Drawing on a network of devices that have installed apps from some5,000 platforms  existing paying Mapbox customers include Foursquare, Pinterest, Github, Evernote and the FT  it strips out everything except for mapping data and uses that to continue to enhance its basic dataset.Our maps get better as people use them, Gundersen says. Data is aggregated and anonymized as its collected, and helps us make a better maps by adding new roads, showing traffic, best setestimated times of arrival and more. It does this with a prettyhardline approach to privacy and transparencythat it worked on in collaboration with the EFF.We spent months hacking the shit out of iPhones, Gundersen says. I dont even want to admit how many we broke in testing.Even if that cost may work out to be a relatively high line item for Mapbox (the startup has raised to date only around $10 million from the Foundry Group and the Knight Foundation), Gundersen contends its nowhere near the expense of doing things the older way that the bigger companies still use.Nokia HERE is just doing it wrong, he says of how the companys mapping division, now up for sale, constructs its dataset. They are spending over a half a billion dollars a year driving cars around and processing that data. That was how you made a map 10 years ago  like back when you had these little Nokia dumb phones. These guys dont understand the idea of building for mobile and building tools for developers  if they did they would be able to get real time data streams back and have a better map. The future is about open data, great tools for developers, and real time data from users that feed back into a better map.All may be true, but what will be interesting to see is whether longer term developers will be interested enough in the extras offered here, or newly inspired by them, to either make the switch from an existing map API or create new apps altogether.On the side of the platforms, for now Apple, Google and others are flexible about whether developers use their own native maps or those of others in apps. But as the value of gathering and providing location data grows, its worth wondering if that kind of open-minded approach will continue, unfettered.