When Salesforce announced it was buying quote-to-cash vendor SteelBrickfor $360 million at the end of last year, it came as a surprise. CEO Marc Benioff offered someinsight into why he made the purchase at todays Salesforce Lightning CRM launch event.The move has to be seen in the contextof comments made at a Dreamforce press event last fall with Keith Block, who was named COO today. Block was specifically asked at the press event about Salesforcesinterest in quote-to-cash vendors like SteelBrick and Apttus, and he said that these types of companies, which serviced the back office part of a salewerent part of the companys overall vision to build (or buy) products that service the customer.Its worth noting that both companies were built on the Salesforce platform, and the company contributed funding to both through its Salesforce Ventures arm.Today, Benioff shed some light on why he bought SteelBrick in spite of that line of thinking. He said the company approached him and offered to give a presentation. Now, there are lots of companies built on the Salesforce platform, and I have to think that many of them would like an audience with Benioff. For some reason, SteelBrick was granted one and he said at the event today when asked about the purchasethat he was impressed and he had to buy the company. I thought it was the best example of an ISVhad of building [this type of]application on this platform, Benioff said today.But making a statement like that had to be a blow to other vendors, who built similar applications on the Salesforce platform and are competing in the same market. He tried to soften that a bit by adding that it was a big market and he felt there was plenty of room for other vendors in the Salesforce ecosystem.Its worth noting that Apttus got in touch with us shortly after the SteelBrick deal was announced andCEO Kirk Krappe talked candidly about his companysfuture in the quote-to-cash market. WhileApttus sells in the same market, its focused on the enterprise, andSteelBrick aimedmore atthe small to medium market. Still, themove clearly had him thinking about how his company would exit:We will be IPOing this year. That may be a function to figure what Salesforce wants to do and they may think about that [after purchasing SteelBrick at the end of last year]. Theres no reason they cant buy us too. For me, I have to run the business, and were growing 100 percent year on year. If Salesforce came to the table, that would be great if the numbers work. If not, we have an amazingly strong business, Krappe said.Regardless, Salesforcebought SteelBrick and announced today that it had already incorporated the SteelBrick technology into the Salesforce Lightning CRM platform. It hadbeen able to achieve this in a remarkablyshort time between the announcement at the end of December and todays launchbecause of the factit had been built on the Salesforce platform. That made integration fairly trivial for the cloud software giant, andthatwould likely be the case with any company it chooses to buy that has been built on itsplatform.