Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is this generations version of Oprah. Hiscrowd-sourced New Years resolutions post on Facebook promptedZuckto start a book club this year. The club is so influentialthat the paperback version of the first book Zuck chose to read for the group,The End of Power has now sold out on Amazon.The book, an exploration of how power is distributed betweenleaders and individuals, has been a popular read. It was a Financial Times Best Book of the Year and Arianna Huffington recommends it on the Amazon site. But it was still available to buyon the Everything Store before Zuckerbergs pick.It doesnt look like you can get it directly from B&N online, either.You can order it on the Barnes and Noble Marketplace if its not in your local bookstore.People can still get the hardcover version from various Amazon sellers or order it on Kindle.Zuck thanked the over 50,000 members of the Facebook community who contributed suggestions for his personal goals this yearandwrote that reading books was one of the more popular suggestions in a post on his page:My challenge for 2015 is to read a new book every other week  with an emphasis on learning about different cultures, beliefs, histories and technologies.Zuck created a group page, A Year of Books, for the reading club soon after. Nearly 100,000 Facebook fans have likedthebook club page that just went up two days ago.Oprah opened up the digitally interactive version of her book club, Oprahs Book Club 2.0, a couple years back. Theres an official Twitter profile for the club (just over 138,000 followers), but notan official book club page on Facebook. What Oprahdoes have isa network empire on the social network, with over 10 million fans on her own page, over 660,000 fans on O, The Oprah Magazine page and nearly 3 million fans on OWN, the Oprah Network page. But thisis Oprah.Zuckerberghas over 23 million followers (over 30 million if you count those following him via lists) on his own Facebook page. Thats more than twice the Oprah fan base, but then he did start the site.Oprah seems to be afairy godmother to book publishers. The phenomenon, also known as the Oprah Effect, can translate into millions in salesfor lesser known picksby the former daytime talk show queen. According to Nielsen, one such book, Say Youre One of Them, by Uwem Akpan jumped units sold to853%when the Oprah seal of approval was added.Zucklooks like a goodcontender for theking maker title in the world of books these days. Oprahs books are expected to sell well and its likely publishers stock up in response. Theres still plenty in stock on Amazonand Barnes&Noblefor herlatest pick, The Invention of Wings by Sue Monk Kidd. Publishers may have to take a look at the Facebook founders next picks and print a few more of those in the future, too.