Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg today said he and his wife would give away 99 percent of theirshares to advance human potential and promote equality for all children in the next generation. His shares are currently worth around $45 billion.Hispledge was, still, essentially a footnote in a long letter addressed to his new daughter, Maxima Chan Zuckerberg (Max for short), whose birth wasannounced on Facebook. Zuckerberg in November said he planned to take two months of paternity leave after his daughter was born.Your mother and I dont yet have the words to describe the hope you give us for the future, the letter begins. Your new life is full of promise, and we hope you will be happy and healthy so you can explore it fully. Youve already given us a reason to reflect on the world we hope you live in, Zuckerberg wrote. Like all parents, we want you to grow up in a world better than ours today.The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative is going to be a new organization, formed as a limited liability company that is controlled by Zuckerbergand Priscilla Chan. Zuckerberg will still control his shares. It plans tofundnon-profit organizations, makeprivate investments and participatein policy debates, Facebook said in a released statement.Any profits from investments in companies will be used to fund additional work to advance the mission, the company said.Zuckerberg will maintaincontrol of his shares as a result of his control over the initiative. And over the course of their lives, the net after-tax proceeds from the sale of the shares will be used to advance the mission of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, the company said. Its not expected to impact Zuckerbergs status as a controlling stockholder of Facebook for the foreseeable future, with Zuckerberg committing to dispose of no more than $1 billion of Facebook stock each year for the next three years, according to the company.Thisis just one ofZuckerbergs philanthropic efforts. Yesterday, hesaid that he and Bill Gates were teaming up with other tech executives to start the Breakthrough Energy Coalition, which invests in zero-carbon energy technology around the world. That also includes members like Richard Branson, Jeff Bezos and Masayoshi Son.Heres a video that Zuckerberg and Chan posted on Facebook discussing the announcement: