Matt Kelly, who has spent the last two-plus yearsas the head of product at Facebook, hasresigned from the company, he announced in a Facebook post to friends and family yesterday.He tells us separately that hesplanning to travel to see friends and familyand afterward, to get back in to the startup world.Kelly had been with the company since November 2009, joining the (then much smaller) social networking giant as aproduct manager focused on its mobile platform. He later helped drive Facebooks HTML5 strategy (a planon which the company relied too heavily, CEO Mark Zuckerberg later said), before shifting into a role as product manager of Notifications.Soon after, Kellywas promoted to hismost recentposition.Earlier in his career, Kelly was a lead software engineer and product manager at acompany called Large Animal Games, an independent developer based in New York. When the 13-year-old companywound down last year, Kelly fondly recalled in a Facebook post that hed reached out to its founders while a student in Bowling Green, Ohio. I had built a game for fun in high school and decided to pitch it to a variety of game developers to get it produced. Long story short, it landed me a job at Large Animal Games . . . where I grew from barely being able to write PHP to building most of the platform . . .His tribute to Facebook is similarly tinged with gratitude. He writes:After 6 incredible years at Facebook its time for something new. Im sad to be leaving, but very excited to plot my next adventure.Im fortunate to have been surrounded by the most talented product and business leaders that Ive ever met. Ive learned more than I ever imagined and grateful for my relationships with everyone here.From surprisingly landing a role on Platform via IRC to having the opportunity to lead the Growth product team,Im proud of all of our accomplishments. Im confident in the teams we have in place on Growth and thrilled for the world to see all of the amazing things these teams have coming.This is a phenomenal place and I feel lucky to have been a part of it. Ill continue to cheer you on from the outside!