Should Apple be concerned that a number of popular app makers like Facebook, Google and Snapchat have yet to embrace its Apple Watch platform with apps of their own? Thats a questionraised by a recent New York Times piece detailing how manydevelopers are taking a wait-and-see approach when it comes to Apples new wearable.But maybe the right question to ask is not, where are the apps, but rather, do we even need them?Personally, I cant imagine wanting to browse or interact with Facebook from my Apple Watch  especially when I have a good-sized screen nearby thanks to my iPhone, which providesa much better experience. Imnot interested in getting Facebook alerts on the Apple Watch, either. Theres no urgency inknowing that someone tagged me in a post, or added me asa friend, or shared a photo.I dont need a Facebook app. In fact, I dont need many Apple Watch apps at all.In the past week, Ive only visited the Apple Watchs apps screen one time  and that was to look up something in a text message thread from a few hours before. Beyond that, the only way I tend to interact with apps on the Apple Watch isthrough notifications and, on occasion, Glances (those widget-like displays you can swipe up to see).But after a few months of wearing this thing almost daily, evenGlances dont get regular attention. At best, I may check out the Activity Glance after a run, view the weather, or useApple Maps. Im less inclined to read the top headlines or Twitter trends via Glances. And if Facebook had an app or Glance, I probably wouldnt use that either.Its possible that the Apple Watch simply isnt going to be a significant app platform in the traditional sense. Thats not to say there arent apps available  according to App Annie, there are now 7,567 Apple Watch apps live in the iTunes App Store.But theApple Watch has arrived at a time when users are already overburdened with mobile applications on theirsmartphones. Though consumers are spending 85 percent of their time on their phones using apps, onlyfive third-party apps see regular use, a recent study found. People havechosen their favorites, and dont have room in their lives for much more.Meanwhile, the mobile app ecosystem itself continues to grow. The top app stores now have close to amillion-and-a-half apps apiece, which has made it more difficult for newcomers to find an audience, much less hold their attention over the long run.And with newapps still arriving at break-neck speeds, that has led to a market where many of the recent applaunches actually seem more likeone-hit wonders that boom, then fizzle, then bust as the initial attraction wears off. (See for example, the recent demise of Frontback, the once-promising selfie app backed by nearly $4 million in venture funding. Or, is anyone really playing Flappy Bird anymore? And arent we done with Foursquare by now?)In other words, a third mobile app ecosystem beyond the phone and tablet isnt in high demand. What users need todayare not Watch apps, but actionable pieces ofinformation.The best Apple Watch apps today deliver on that promise by way of notifications. They are contextually aware of your surroundings or your activities, and then provide you with relevant information. Or they let you know of the most urgent things  an incoming call, a text. Your Uber is arriving. Its about to rain. Your flight is delayed. Your boss just pinged you on Slack. Theyre like Apples own, app-infused version of Google Now.The best apps arent lean-back experiences, either, where you tap around a tiny interface and browse through content. They are not places where you go when youre boredto wastetime.Instead of being rich counterparts to their big-screen cousins, the apps you end up really using on Apple Watch are a subset of the Notification spam you receive today on your iPhone. Because so many app makers now have to rely on push notifications to re-engage users (and tinkering around in your phones settings to disable these for each app becomes cumbersome), many iPhone ownershave developed something of notification blindness to their iPhones incoming alerts.Sure, your phone may have buzzed, but did it really mean anything?However, when set up correctly with only the apps you care about, a buzz on the Apple Watch matters.To some extent, users disinterest in using Apple Watch apps could be because they are painfully slow to load in that rare moment you actually try to use them. But even if they launchedsnappily, I dont think that would significantly change user behavior or interest.Apple said that it will make native Watch apps possible in watchOS 2, and this will make the apps more powerful and therefore more capable, eliminating some of these concerns. This may move the bar forward to a degree, but only by a bit. Im not sure there will ever be more than a core group of apps that a user will want outside of the default apps  especially considering most peoplebarely use half a dozen regularly on their iPhones.And even when the watchOS 2 apps arrive, its notlikely users will often visit the Watchs app screen tolaunch them  instead, theyll interact with the incoming notifications when theres actionable information.None of this means that Apple Watch isnt a compelling platform, or that the watches themselves wont sell. (They are.) Its still an attractive and useful piece of hardware, and easily fits into your daily life.Still, thebigger question is whether everyone will want one. For now, that answer is no.The Apple Watch today remains a curiosity: Friends and family, checkoutclerks and strangers have asked me for my thoughts when spotting it on my wrist. Do you like it? Should I get one?, they want to know.But unlike with the iPhone, I cant heartily answer YES!The Apple Watch is not world-changing. It doesnt have a must-have app or use case. Its a nice accessory for your digital lifestyle and is certainly a convenience. Its pretty to look at. Its a great watch and a handy health monitor and activity tracker. I like that I can keep my phone in my purse. I like tapping a button to reply OK and Yes to incoming texts. Ive even Dick Tracyd a phone call or two on the thing.But it doesnt need a Facebook app.Im notmissing Snapchat for Apple Watch.Im not counting the days until any one of my favorite iPhone applications makes itsApple Watch version. (At this point, anyway, theyd be doing it just to say they did.)So maybe there never will be an Apple Watch app for everything. But maybe there doesnt need to be.