New York Times bestselling author Kelly Corrigan wants to bring more attention to some of her favorite authors. Sheproposes to do that with a video series in which she gets to interview some of those writers on camera and distribute those interviews on Medium.Corrigan began filming the12-part author interview program Foreword for Mediumearlier this month.Her hope is that viewers will consume a generous helping of brain-food from those authors and walk away feeling a little, teeny bit better for having watched this.Walter Isaacson, John Cleese and Margaret Atwood are among the roster of Corrigans 12 picks for the pilot series, half of which were taped inside Mediums headquarters. The other half, which were filmed in conjunction with PBS, took place at the Miami International Book Fair.For those that took place at Medium, some ofSilicon Valleys elite came out to show their support. Weve heard that Medium co-founder Ev Williams went to every show, and Twitter co-founder Biz Stone attendedCorrigansfirst interviewwith comedianB.J. Novak.Girls producer and Not That Kind of Girl authorLena Dunham threw inher support for Foreword. Corrigan wasnt able to get the young writer in for the pilot program, but was able to interview her over the phone for a Foreword post prior to the launch of the show.While the series is currently hosted on Medium, that wasnt originally part of Corrigans plan. Shefirst proposed the idea for the series to her publishers at Random House. But her husband, Mediums head of corporate development and strategyEdward Lichty, overheardthis phone conversation and thought the conceptsounded like something that should exist on Medium.That fit well with Corrigans plan, but Medium had never attempteda video series before. This would bean experiment for a platform that focuses mostly on the written word.So Lichty put the idea in front of Williams to see what he thought. Corrigan tells meWilliams was pretty keen to do itand soon aftergave the green light for Mediums first digital video series. As a result, Corrigan started booking her dream list of wordsmiths.Each week for12 weeks, Corrigan will post the video series to YouTube and then release each author interviewon Medium and Facebook. Three shows have already gone out this month. An interview withpopular science writer Mary Roach comes outtoday.Foreword may get a second season if all goes well. A Medium spokesperson said the company neededto see how things go with season 1 (were only 4 weeks in) before we make decisions about season 2, but were pretty pleased with how things are going so far.However, the showwill have to continue on with YouTube videos embedded within the Medium platform if it continues. Medium has no current plans to develop its own native video player to support the show.A second season is quite likely to happen if Corrigan can find a sponsor, and she says shes working on a few possibilities. If it were to happen, Toni Morrison, Lena Dunham and Hilary Clinton are at the top of her list.