Kareo, a startup that provides small medical practices the tools they need torun their business, has pulled in $55 million in funding to accelerate expansion indoctors offices acrossthe country.Montreux Equity Partners, a late-stage health tech fund, led the round, with participation from Silver Lake Watermanas well as all previous investors including Greenspring Associates, OpenView Venture Partners, and Stripes Group.Kareo helpsdoctors and healthcare providers manage all aspects of running a practice, from online scheduling and patient communication to electronic health record management. Launchedten years ago, Kareo is currently being used by over 30,000 physicians and medical professionals who are caring for a combined 40 million patients.Were really helping practices cope with the transition thats happening right now to a consumerization of healthcare, says Kareo founder Dan Rodrigues. Patients are starting to pay a larger portion of their medical bills, and as a result theyre becoming a bit more savvy and demanding about the quality and cost of the service.Kareo is focused on small healthcare practices that employ fewer than ten physicians. Their clients span over 50 medical specialties, including family practice, anesthesiology, cardiology, and physical therapy.The backbone of the healthcare system is really these small, one- to nine-physician practices, butthe technology and software solutions that theyre using are really old and frustrating, says Michael Matly of Montreux, a doctor by training who spent many years working at Mayo Clinic. Physicians now spend so little time with patients because theres so much administrative burden in running the business.Kareos electronic health record is free, and the company charges $300 per doctor per month for its billing software. Physicians can choose to outsource all of their billing to Kareo for a percentage of the practices collections each month, which averagesaround$2,000 per doctor.According to Rodrigues, 50 percent of healthcare providers work in practices with fewer than ten physicians. This adds up to a target market of around 750,000 medical offices in the U.S. alone.Kareo is already serving 5 percent of this market, Rodrigues says, and bringing in well over $50 million in annual revenue. The companywill use the funding to expand its U.S. footprint and build outadditional products and services to make doctors lives easier.