Livestreaming app Meerkat has launched an embeddable player so thatcontent being broadcastto theapp can beembedded into and viewed on other digital services. The first implementation of the player is with the Discovery Channel, for its annual Shark Week multi-platform event  which begins July 5.The Meerkat playerwill be used to add behind-the-scenes content on the channelsDLiveweb portal, as part of a round-up of streaming content. Shark Week content will also be pushed out to Meerkat users, via a @SharkWeek account, givingDiscoverysprogramminganother digital outlet.Streaming contentDiscovery is lining up to produce for  and Meerkat into (if I can put it that way)  Shark Week includes interviews with shark experts, a live shark feedingfrom the National Aquarium in Baltimore, shark-related vox pops, and a series ofWatch With viewing parties with a Shark Week comedian.Quick recap on the livestreaming app wars:Meerkat gotan early headstart when it launched this year by piggybacking on Twitters network.BeforeTwitter waded in, and started throwing its weight around with its own app, Periscope. CueMeerkat falling back to earth with a bit of a bump.Meerkat hasnt thrown in the towel. Its fighting smarter, as well it must against heavy hitter Twitter. Meerkatsweaponin this David vs Goliath fight is openness, via a public API.Developers can integrate Meerkatinto their services  which iswhy theres already a Meerkat drone in the works, rather than a Periscopedrone, for instance.The startuplaunched its official public API back in May, but had already been letting developers dip in in private. TheMeerkat APIletsdevelopers pull arrays of all current or scheduled streams, plusdetailssuch ascomments and watchers. The new embed feature removes even morefriction to encourage developers to get involved.Co-founder Ben Rubin said Meerkat wanted one great example to get things going with the embed feature, hencelaunchingwith Discovery. He added theres huge interest from other partners. No word on who else its hooked yet.Meerkat is also not disclosing active users yet but Rubin reiteratedthat May wasitshighest month fortraffic yet  more than 3x traffic levels in March.Hype vs. Core  Core community now generates 3x usage. Last month was the best yet.  #Meerkat pic.twitter.com/tsAgiBLzNt Ben Rubin (@benrbn) June 3, 2015