ExtremeFliers are back crowdfunding the third generation of their micro drone. This timethe teeny quadcopter will be able to live stream footage straight to Meerkat. Or it will if they raise the $75,000+ theyre looking for via Indiegogo.Yep, called itHas anyone put Meerkat on a drone yet? Natasha (@riptari) March 18, 2015Ive not seen any other drones that are integrated with Meerkat at the moment. We are the first, says co-founder Vernon Kerswell.Why Meerkat not Periscope? Because the former has an open API, and the latter is owned by Twitter doesnt yet.ExtremeFliers Micro Drone 2.0, which sold 60,000 units, had a camera but Drone 3.0upgrades the quality to 720p HD  all the better for your social media live broadcasting needs. The drone ispriced at $125 for theearliest crowdfunder backers.Other upgrades focus on making it easier to pilot. Plus theresa dual control mechanism, so the drone can be controlled from up to 50-ft via a smartphone app, or (for greater range, of ~300-ft) via the main controller.Therewill also bea new dronie footage stabilizing accessory in the form of what Kerswell saysis the worlds smallest gimbal (costing $50) to ensure steadiervideo.Micro Drone 3.0 is designed to be modular, with additional parts (such as the gimbal) snapping on via magnets. The quadcopter will fly for around 8 minutes per battery charge. Again, the battery is snap on so it can be swapped out more quickly.We build the main board as well as the structure of the drone. We started off with the structure by making it a modular drone which is really easy to pull apart and put back together again so that overcomes all the issues of breakages  you can just swap parts in and out. For the main board, because weve been making this since 2011, weve been able to iterate pretty rapidly on the actual control board and the system for flying it, he tells TechCrunch.For 2.0 we had a six axis gyro which made it fly stable and be able to throw it in the air. With 3.0 weve upgraded the sensors so now you can, using an accelerometer, a six-axis gyro and an electronic compass you can fly much more stable. It takes away a lot of the hands on difficulties of piloting it, and gives it a thing called smart orientation, so you dont have to know what the front of the drone is. No matter if you go forward or backwards, the drone always goes in that direction.Kerswell reckons consumer drones are still a long way off autonomous flight, so the focus is about making flight more automatic, although a human eye is still needed to guide the quadcopter (albeit last year another U.K. company, Zano, launched a crowdfunder for a selfie drone designed to fly itself  so startups are certainly attempting to build self-flying drones at this point).Were a long way off true autonomous flying, says Kerswell. Weve been working really hard on that using biometric pressure sensors and sonar and IR sensors. Thats technology that can enable better autonomy, but theres still a lot of technical difficulties  for example with IR sensors you only get 5-ft of range. With sonar it doesnt overcome the drift. And if there are obstacles it will just sort of jump up. And with GPS you can only use it outdoors whereas you need it for indoors.The sensors we are using  the compass, the accelerometer, the six-axis gyro  that makes it more automatic so its a lot easier to fly than previous versions.Kerswells view is that computer vision tech is the way to achieve good obstacle avoidance on small consumer drones in future, rather than using IR sensors. I think obstacle avoidance and autonomy will happen eventually but it will be more a sort of computer vision solution where it canuse video from the camera to be able to detect objects and then use that to avoid  knowing what obstacles are and being able to take action to correct itself, he adds.ExtremeFliers is self funded, with the profits from Micro Drone 2.0 ploughed back into the business to develop the third gen  and crowdfunding remaining its preferred route to market, as it focuses on building an ecosystem of developers and users.Kerswell says it hopes to be able to double sales with the new Micro Drone 3.0. The aim is to ship to backers byNovember.Were ready to go into production with the 3.0. Weve got a working prototype We wanted to do crowdfunding because the drone is modular so thecrowdfunding communities are pretty hands on with the development  and thatll open up opportunities for third party developers to get involved with development, like modules, he says.Already, at some of the events weve been to, weve found developers who want to make things like laser pens, Gatling guns, fish eye lenses, really sophisticated modules that just snap onto the drone. Also building a community that helps make an ecosystem  I think thats one of the fastest ways to get this into the hands of people. And it kind of validates it. If people like this then its a product which has been developed by people based on feedback.