Disrupt SFis just a few weeksaway, and we have some of the most iconic entrepreneurs and thought leaders in the tech industry lined up to speakthroughout the three-day-long conference. You can still buy tickets for Disrupt SFhere.You can find full details about the event right here. Weve compiled this list ofthe speakers we are proud to announce and when you can expect to see them take the stage. Study up!Sam Altmanis president of Y Combinator and was the cofounder of Loopt, a location-based social networking app, which was part of YCs first batch in 2005 and acquired by Green Dot in 2012. Altman will speak at 10:05am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Isis Anchalee is a autodidact and platform engineer at OneLogin, an enterprise identity management company. As founder of the #iLookLikeAnEngineermovement she believes that external appearances do not put a limit on cognitive ability. Anchalee will speak at 9:05am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Nikesh Arorais the representative director, president & COO at SoftBank Corp. Arora will speak at 9:25am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Niko Bonatsos is a venture partner at General Catalyst Partners. Bonatsos will judge Startup Battlefield at2:25pm on Monday, September 21st.Gagan Biyaniis CEO and co-founder of Sprig, whose mission it is to make eating well accessible to everyone. Biyani will speak at 9:50am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Andrew (Boz) Bosworth is the VP of advertising at Facebook. Bosworth will speak at 10:25am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Roelof Bothais a partner at Sequoia Capital, and works with a broad range of companies. Botha will judge Startup Battlefield on Wednesday, September 23rd.Calvin Broadus Jr. aka Snoop Dogg is an American rapper, singer-songwriter and actor. He has personal investments inReddit, Robinhood, and Secret.Snoop will be speaking at 12:00pm on Monday, September 21st.Gregg Brockway is CEO at Maker Media, a global platform for connecting makers with each other, with products and services, and with our partners. Brockway will speak at 11:45am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Jon Callaghanis an early stage venture capitalist and a founder of True Ventures. Callaghan will speak at 10:45am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Troy Carteris the founder, chairman and CEO of Atom Factory, an entertainment management company. Carter will speak at 2:00pm on Wednesday, September 23rd and judge Startup Battlefield on Wednesday September 23rd.Wences Casaresis an international entrepreneur who has founded successful technology and financial ventures in the US, South America and Europe. Casares will speak at 9:45am on Monday, September 21st.Sukhinder Singh Cassidyis founder and CEO of JOYUS, an online video shopping network. Cassidy will speak at 9:05am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Tracy Chouis currently a backend/infrastructure software engineer at Pinterest. She was previously at Quora, where she joined as the second engineer. Chou will speak at 9:05am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Phaedra Chrousos is an associate administrator for the Office of Citizen Services and Innovative Technologies. Before joining GSA, Chrousos was co-founder and CEO at Daily Secret. Chrousos will speak at 10:40am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Ted Chung is is the founder of Cashmere Agency and co-managing member of Snoop Doggs VC fund calledCasa Verde Capital. Chung will speak at 12:00pm on Monday, September 21st.Parker Conradis co-founder and CEO of Zenefits, thefree human resources platform that automates HR and benefits-related tasks for small and medium-sized businesses. Conrad will speak at 9:25am on Monday, September 21st.Topher Conway isa General Partner at SV Angel. At SV Angel, he works particularly close with Niche, URX, Bluebox, and Zenefits. Conway will speak at 9:05am on Monday, September 21st.Ron Conwayhas been an active angel investor for over 15 years. He was the founder and managing partner of the Angel Investors LP funds whose investments included Google, Ask Jeeves, Paypal, and others. Conway will speak at 9:05am on Monday, September 21st.Leslie Dewanis the founder and CEO of Transatomic Power Corporation. Dewan will speak at9:45am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Jacob DeWitteis the CEO and founder of Upower. DeWitte will speak at 9:45am on Tuesday, September 22nd.John Doerris a general partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Since joining KPCB in 1980, John and his partners have backed some of the worlds most successful entrepreneurs. Doerr will speak at 2:00pm on Tuesday, September 22nd.Pavel Durovis the founder and CEO of VK.com, the social network formerly known as Vkontakte. Durov will speak at 12:20pm on Monday, September 21st.Helen Greineris CEO of CyPhy Works, Inc, a startup company that acts as a skunkworks to design and deliver innovative robots. Greiner will speak at 10:45am on Monday, September 21st.Mark Hatchis CEO and co-founder of TechShop and a recognized leader in the global maker movement. Hatch will speak at 11:45am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Drew Houstonis CEO and co-founder of Dropbox, and has led Dropboxs growth from a simple idea to a service used by millions around the world. Houston will speak at 10:25am on Monday, September 21st.Andre Iguadolais an NBA Champion and Finals MVP currently signed with the Golden State Warriors. He advises Twice, a startup acquired by eBay in 2015. Iguadola will speak at 12:40pm on Tuesday, September 22nd.Ron Johnsonis the CEO of ENJOY, which he founded in 2014. Prior to ENJOY, Ron served as CEO of JC Penney. From 2000 to 2012, Ron was on the executive committee at Apple and led Apple Retail. Johnson will speak at 11:25am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Jonathan Jaglomis theCEOof MakerBot, asubsidiary of Stratasys Ltd., and agloballeader in the desktop 3D printing industry. Jaglom will speak at 11:45am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Dr. John E. Kelly III is Senior Vice President and Director of IBM Research. Kelly will speak at 11:20am on Monday, September 21st.Vinod Khoslais the founder of Khosla Ventures, focused on impactful clean technology and information technology investments. Khosla was a co-founder of Daisy Systems and founding CEO of Sun Microsystems, where he pioneered open systems and commercial RISC processors. Khosla will speak at 12:10pm on Wednesday, September 23rd.Aileen Leeis Founder of Cowboy Ventures, a digital seed-stage focused fund founded in 2012, and a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Lee will speak at 11:40am on Monday, September 21st and judge Startup Battlefield on Wednesday, September 23rd.Bobby Leeis CEO of BTCC, the first and largest bitcoin exchange in China. Lee will speak at 9:45am on Monday, September 21st.Jeremy Liewis a managing director at Lightspeed Venture Partners, joining the firm in 2006. He invests primarily in the Internet and mobile sectors with a particular interest in massive-scale social media, commerce, gaming, financial services, and methods for increasing monetization. Liew will speak at 11:40am on Monday, September 21st.Richard Marksis the founder of and directs the PlayStation Magic Lab in Sony Computer Entertainment Americas Research & Development group. Marks will speak at 2:00pm on Monday, September 21st.Bill McGlashanis a founding partner at TPG Growth, the growth equity and smaller buyout investment platform of TPG. Among its best bets are Airbnb, Uber, Domo and Ipsy.McGlashan will speak at 11:40am on Monday, September 21st.Eric Migicovskyis the founder and CEO of Pebble Technology, the company behind the Pebble, Pebble Steel, Pebble Time and Pebble Time Steel smartwatches for iPhone and Android. Migicovsky will speak at 12:30pm on Wednesday, September 23rd.Yuri Milnerstarted investing in Internet companies in 1999. In 2005, he founded Digital Sky Technologies, Limited (now Mail.ru Group) to focus on Internet investments in the Russian speaking world.Milner recently announced that hed be investing $100 million to find extraterrestrial intelligent life. Milner will speak at 10:05am on Monday, September 21st.James Parkis a serial entrepreneur with a passion for creating great products and companies. Fitbit is the third startup that he has founded. Park will speak at 10:45am on Tuesday, September 22nd.DJ Patilis theWhite House Chief Data Scientist and Deputy Chief Technology Officer for data policy. He previously wasis the VP of Product at RelateIQ, worked for Greylock Partners as Chief Data Scientist, Color Labs as Chief Product Officer, LinkedIn as Chief Scientist and Chief Security Officer, and eBay as their Director of Strategy, Analytics, and Product. Patil will speak at 10:40am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Nathaniel Popperis a business reporter at The New York Times and the author of Digital Gold: Bitcoin and the Inside Story of the Misfits and Millionaires Trying to Reinvent Money. Popper will speak at 9:45am on Monday, September 21st.Brian Pokornyis a managing partner of SV Angel. Prior to this, he was at Airbnb, where he joined via an acquisition of DailyBooth/Batch. Pokorny will judge Startup Battlefield on Wednesday, September 23rd.Matthew Princeis co-founder and CEO of CloudFlare, a company whose mission is to build a better Internet. Prince will speak at 12:25pm on Tuesday, September 22nd.Paul Raphalis theco-founder and director ofFlix & Paul Studios, a Montreal-based company dedicated to storytelling throughvirtual reality.Raphal will speak at 2:00pm on Monday, September 21st.Ruchi Sanghvi is the VP of Operations at Dropbox. She holds the distinction of being the first female engineer at Facebook and was instrumental in implementing the first versions of key features such as News Feed. Sanghvi will judge Startup Battlefield on Wednesday, September 23rd.Alan Schaafis founder and CEO of Imgur, a company that pegs itself as the Internets home for visual stories created and curated by millions of people around the world. Schaaf will speak at 11:20am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Sarah Schaafis the voice of Imgurs community of over 150 million monthly active users. Schaafand her team ensure that community feedback is represented and incorporated into Imgurs products.Schaaf will speak at 11:20am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Bryan Schreieris a partner at Sequoia Capital, and sits on the board of Dropbox, Hearsay, Qualtrics, MindSnacks, and Inkling and is a board observer for Trulia. Schreier will speak at 9:30am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Beth Seidenbergis a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers focused on life science investing. She works with entrepreneurs to develop companies with breakthrough technology for treating patients and improving health. Seidenberg will speak at 12:40pm on Monday. September, 21st.Dana Settleis a partner with GreyCroft Partners, and she heads the firms west coast office. Prior to joining Greycroft, Settlespent several years as a venture capitalist and advisor to startup companies. Settle will speak at 11:40am on Monday, September 21st.Ryan Smith is the founder and CEO of Qualtrics. Smith will speak at 9:30am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Adi Tatarkois the CEO and co-founder of Houzz, a platform for home remodeling, bringing together both professionals and homeowners via mobile, local and social tools. Tatarko will speak at 10:05am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Colleen Tayloris an editorial director at Y Combinator. She was a reporter for TechCrunch and the editorial director for TechCrunch TV. Taylor will speak at 2:00pm on Tuesday, September 22nd.Jesse Vollmaris co-founder and CEO of FarmLogs, aleading data science company focused on helping farmers make their fields more profitable. Vollmar will speak at 11:40am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Peter Weijmarshausenisco-founder and CEO of Shapeways, a leading marketplace and community for 3D printing. Weijmarshausen will speak at 11:45am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Tim Westergrenfounded Pandora in January 2000 and now serves as its chief strategy officer. Tim is an award-winning composer, an accomplished musician and a record producer with 20 years of experience in the music industry. Westergren will speak at 12:05pm on Tuesday, September 22nd.Nick Woodmanis the CEO and founder of GoPro. Woodman will speak at 9:05am on Tuesday, September 22nd.Tracy Youngis in charge of the day-to-day operations at PlanGrid, driving the team to new levels of productivity and long hours. Young will speak at 10:25am on Wednesday, September 23rd.Michelle Zatlynis the co-founder and head of user experience of CloudFlare, the web performance and security company. Zatlyn will speak at 12:25 on Tuesday, September 22nd.Claude Zellweger is Associate Vice President of Industrial Design at HTC. Zellweger will speak at 2:00pm on Monday, September 21st.