Disrupt NY is just a few days away, and we have some of the most iconic entrepreneurs and thought leaders in the tech industry lined up to speakthroughout the three-day-long conference. You can still buy general admission tickets for Disrupt NY here.You can find full details about the event here. These are the speakers we are proud to announce and when you can expect to see them take the stage.Kayvon Beykpouristhe CEO and cofounder of Periscope, an app that enables anyone to capture or watch live video broadcasts, acquired by Twitter in 2015. Beykpour will speak at 12:20 on Tuesday May 5.John Borthwickis CEO and co-founder of betaworks, a company that builds and invests in companies across the social, data driven media Internet. Borthwick will judge the Startup Battlefield Finals on Wednesday May 6.Bob Bowmanis the CEO at MLB Advanced Media. Bowman will speak at 2:00pm on Wednesday May 6.Joanne Bradfordis Head of Partnerships at Pinterest, where she focuses on building both commercial and content partnerships globally. Bradford will speak at9:25am on Monday May 4.Brooks Buffington is the COO and co-founder of Yik Yak. Buffington will speak at12:00pm on Tuesday May 5.Adam Cahan serves as the Senior Vice President of Mobile and Emerging Products at Yahoo, where he oversees the companys global mobile effort. Cahan willjudge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Ron Conwayis a founder at SV Angel. Conway will speak at9:05am on Monday May 4.Topher Conway is a general partner at SV Angel. Conway will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Dennis Crowley is the co-founder and CEO of Foursquare, overseeing the strategic vision and product roadmap that has grown the Foursquare community to more than 50 million people around the world. Crowley will speak at9:45am on Tuesday May 5 and judge Startup Battlefield on Wednesday May 6.New York Mayor Bill de Blasiois working hard at making changes to the city that aim to increase network connectivity for all five boroughs and Digital.NYC, a hub for startups in the city. He will be onstage Monday May 4 at noon.Chris Dixon is a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. Dixon will speak at9:05am on Tuesday May 5.Tyler Droll is the CEO and co-founder of Yik Yak. Droll will speak at12:00pm on Tuesday May 5.Tara Feener is an engineer at FiftyThree, makers of Paper for the iPad (Apples iPad App of the Year 2012) and Pencil (the worlds top selling digital stylus). Feener will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Carly Fiorinaadvocates for conservative policies that advance economic growth, entrepreneurship, innovation, and effective leadership. She served asChairman and CEO of HP for six years. Fiorina will speak at2:00pm on Tuesday May 5.Shana Fisheris the Managing Partner of High Line Venture Partners, a NY Based venture fund focused on early stage investments. Fisher will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Julie Fredricksonis Stowaways co-founder and CEO. She is an e-commerce and digital marketing expert, having worked in-house with brands like Ann Taylor and Equinox and as an agency director across brands as diverse as Gap, Nike and Michael Kors. Fredrickson will speak at12:25pm on Monday May 4.Limor Friedis a MIT engineer who founded Adafruit in 2005. Fried will speak at12:00pm on Monday May 4.Patrick Gallagherhas 17 years of technology investing, operations and finance experience. Prior to starting CrunchFund, Pat was a partner at VantagePoint.Gallagherwill judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Kevin Gibbonstarted Shyp in 2013 to make shipping items anywhere in the world frictionless. As CEO, Kevin is responsible for Shyps day-to-day operations, guiding the companys vision and leading its growth. Gibbon will speak at9:10am on Wednesday May 6.Jonathan Gradois the Vice President of Marketing for Grado Labs. Grado will speak at12:00pm on Monday May 4.Logan Greenis the co-founder and CEO of Lyft. Green will speak at1:40pm on Tuesday May 5.Fabrice Grindais among the worlds leading Internet entrepreneurs and investors. He has over $300 million in exits and 150 angel investments. Grinda will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Rachel Sterne Haotis the Chief Digital Officer and Deputy Secretary for Technology for New York State, part of Governor Cuomos administration. Haot will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Eric Hippeauis a Managing Director at Lerer Hippeau Ventures, a leading early-stage venture capital fund focused on New York technology startups. Hippeau will judge the Startup Battlefield finals on Wednesday May 6.Jennifer Hymanis the co-founder and CEO of Rent the Runway, a fashion company with a technology soul that is disrupting the way women get dressed. Hyman will speak at12:25pm on Monday May 4.Payal Kadakiais the CEO and co-founder of ClassPass, a membership program that provides people of all fitness levels access to the best boutique studio classes across the US. Kadakia will speak at1:40pm on Wednesday May 6.Brendan Kennedyis CEO of Privateer Holdings, the worlds first private equity firm investing exclusively in legal cannabis. Kennedy will speak at10:05am on Monday May 4.Alex Kleinis the co-founder of Kano Computing. Klein will speak at10:45am on Monday May 4.Mo Koyfmanis a General Partner at Spark Capital, a venture capital firm that partners with imaginative entrepreneurs who are driven to move people with the products and experiences they create. Koyfman will judge Startup Battlefield.Philip Krimis the co-founder and CEO of Casper and a serial entrepreneur. Krim will speak10:50am on Wednesday May 6.Bastian Lehmannis the CEO of Postmates. He will speak at11:20am on Monday May 4.Aaron Levieis the co-founder and CEO of Box. He will speak2:00pm on Monday May 4.Danielle Levitasleads the research and analysis team at App Annie. She will speak at12:00pm on Wednesday May 6.Geoff Lewisis a Partner at Founders Fund, where he is responsible for many of the firms early and growth stage software investments. Lewis is speaking at10:05am on Monday May 4.Noah Lichtensteinhas been helping build startups in Silicon Valley for nearly a decade, and is passionate about turning ideas into products and businesses that customers love.Lichtenstein will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Jessica Livingstonis a founding partner at Y Combinator. She is also the organizer of Startup School, the big annual startup conference, and the author of Founders at Work, a collection of interviews with successful startup founders. Livingstonwill judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Alfred Linis a venture capitalist at Sequoia Capital who works with consumer internet, enterprise and mobile companies. Lin will speak at12:00pm on Wednesday May 6 and judge the Startup Battlefield finals.Paula Longco-founded storage provider EqualLogic, acquired by Dell for $1.4 billion in 2008. She co-foundedDataGravity in 2012.Long will speak at9:45am on Monday May 4.Susan Lyneis the president and founder atBBG Ventures, and was formerly the CEO of AOL Brand Group. She will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Jason Manteis head of user experience at Vine. He will speak at11:40am on Tuesday May 5.Kanyi Maqubelais a partner at Collaborative Fund, an early stage investment vehicle focused on mission-driven technology businesses. Maqubela will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Bill Marisfounded Google Ventures in 2009 and oversees all of the funds global activities. Maris will speak at10:05am on Tuesday May 5.Marissa Mayeris CEO of Yahoo. She will judge the Startup Battlefield finals.Dave McClureis a venture capitalist and founding partner at 500 Startups. He will speak at11:00am on Tuesday May 5.Leandra Medineis the founder of ManRepeller.com, a humorous site for serious fashion. She will speak at11:20am on Tuesday May 5.Heidi S. Messerhas been an active entrepreneur and investor in the digital economy since the commercialization of the Internet. She currently serves as co-founder and chairman of Collective[i]. Messer will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Nate Mitchellis co-founder and vice president of product at Oculus. He will speak at10:10am on Wednesday May 6.Adam Neumannis co-founder and CEO of WeWork. He will speak at10:25am on Tuesday May 5.Alexis Ohanianis a startup founder and investor, and co-founded reddit. He will speak at9:50am on Wednesday May 6.Susan Paleyis a 15+ year veteran in consumer technology and the driving force behind some of the most innovative consumer products and embedded solutions in the audio/digital audio space.In her most recent role Susan was the first employee and CEO of Beats By Dre. Paley willjudge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Ron Palmeri haslaunched a number of highly innovative companies, including Grand Central/Google Voice, OpenDNS, Scout Labs and Swivel as managing director of Minor Ventures. He will speak at2:25pm on Wednesday May 6.Serkan Piantinois currently a director of engineering at Facebooks AI Research lab and founder and site director of Facebooks New York office.Brian Pokornyis a managing partner of SV Angel. Prior to this, he was at Airbnb, where he joined via an acquisition of DailyBooth/Batch. Pokorny will judge the Startup Battlefield finals.Michael Pryoris CEO of Trello Inc. as well as co-founder and president of Fog Creek Software. He also servers on the board of Stack Exchange, Inc.Sean Radis the co-founder andpresident of Tinder. He will speak at9:25am on Tuesday May 5.Ben Rubinis the CEO and co-founder of Life on Air Inc., which most recently released the popular Meerkat app. He will speak at11:40am on Wednesday May 6.David Samuelis an experienced executive, serial entrepreneur, and Internet pioneer in software andmedia. Today, heis co-founder of Freestyle Capital. He will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Marcela Saponeis the co-founder and CEO of Hello Alfred. She will speak at2:25pm on Wednesday May 6.Kegan Schouwenburgis the founder and CEO of Sols. She will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Sam Shankis the co-founder and CEO of Hotel Tonight, the on-demand mobile hotel booking app. He will speak at9:30am on Wednesday May 6.Minerva Tantocois the CTOat theNew York City Economic Development Corporation. She will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Halle Teccois the founder and managing director of Rock Health, a full-service seed fund for digital health startups.She will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.David Tischis the Managing Partner of BoxGroup, a New York City based seed-stage angel capital firm. He will speak at12:25pm and judge Startup Battlefield onMonday May 4.Matt Turckis a partner at FirstMark and invests across a broad range of early stage enterprise and consumer startups. He will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Yossi Vardiis an Israeli investor most famous for being the original investor in ICQthe first Internet-wide instant messaging system. Vardi has invested in over 50 tech companies in diverse areas of software, energy, Internet, mobile, cleantech, and others.He will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Hunter Walkis a founder and partner at Homebrew.He will judge Startup Battlefield on Tuesday May 5.Tristan WalkerfoundedWalker & Company and was an entrepreneur-in-residence at Andreessen Horowitz. Prior to his time at Andreessen Horowitz, he was the Director of Business Development for foursquare. He will speak at10:30am on Wednesday May 6.Emily Weissis the founder and CEO of Glossier. She will speak at10:25am on Monday May 4.Tom Wheeleris the 31st chairman of the FCC. He will speak at11:40am on Monday May 4.Fred Wilsonis a founder and Managing Partner of Union Square Ventures. He will speak at9:05am on Monday May 4.Joanne Wilsonis an angel investor and blogger, and is currently an advisor at Vengo Labs. She will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday May 4.Cameron Winklevossis the co-founder and president of Gemini, a next generation bitcoin exchange. He will speak at12:20pm on Wednesday May 6.Tyler Winklevoss is the co-founder and CEO of Gemini, a next generation bitcoin exchange. He will speak at12:20pm on Wednesday May 6.