Its that time of year again. With the passing of January into February the9th Annual Crunchies are almost upon us.Next week, on February 8, some of the best minds of our generation willdescend bedecked, bedazzled, and (some of them at least) bespectacled onSan Franciscos War Memorial Opera House for one of San Franciscos biggest bashes to celebrate the tech communitys achievements.Winners will receive one ofthe much coveted, never duplicated, Crunchies in 12 categories, and today well be taking a look at the finalists for perhaps my personal favorite category Biggest Social Impact of 2015. This award goes to theorganizationthat has made the most impact on society at large duringthe year.Nominees range from a technology-focused nonprofit accelerator program, an initiative teaching and promoting coding across the U.S. and a group dedicated to applying technology to ending child sexual exploitation to the impact investmentarm of the worlds most valuablecompany.So without further ado (but with much ballyhoo) here are the nominees for the organization that had the greatest social impact.Code.orgCode.orgis the nonprofit founded by the serial entrepreneur and investorHadi Partovi back in 2013. The organization is dedicated to increasing access to computer science with a special focus on elevating the participation by women and underrepresented students of color in computing. Partovi and his fellow travelers share a vision that every student in every school should be able to learn computer science.Google.orgFor years, theGoogle.orgteam has been on the vanguard of the technology communitys efforts to make the world a better place. Each year, the folks at Google.org donate $100,000,000 in grants, 80,000 man hours and $1 billion in products to groups engaged in everything from stamping out human trafficking, to helping refugees, to increasing access to computer science education, and eradicating ebola. Fast ForwardOperating to do good at startup speed, Fast Forwardis an accelerator, fellowship program and clearing house for information on how to fund, create and manage a technology-focused nonprofit. Companies that have come out of the accelerator program include an on-demand food donation service (Copia); Nexleaf Analytics, which leverages smartphones, cell phones and ubiquitous sensors to make data collection easier in emerging markets; a college sexual assault reporting tool called Callisto; and Stellar, which aims to use the blockchain to make money transfer as easy as emailing.Freada Kapor Klein & Mitch KaporFreada Kapor Klein and Mitch Kapor are inarguably twoof the most successful early-stage investors in Silicon Valley. Their successes are legendary and the work theyredoing now with the Kapor Center for Social Impact could be just as impressive. Boasting a team that includes former NAACP chairman and chief executive Ben Jealous, the Kapor Center is working to improve educational access to technology and computer science, increase the diversity of the tech community, and foster and create technologies with a profound social impact.ThornIn a case of the stars aligning against the profound, persistent problem of the global exploitation of children, Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore founded Thornto use technology to combat an issue that technology has actually made worse. According to the organization, the Internet is, itself, the largest marketplace for buying and selling children in the U.S. Thorn marshals the resources of the tech community through partnerships with some of the largest tech companies to ridthe Internet, and the country, of child exploitation.First introduced at the5thAnnual Crunchies in 2012, whoever wins the Biggest Social Impact award will be filling some pretty big shoes worn by some storied companies and amazing individuals.TwitterA Two-Time WinnerFor its role in revolutions from Cairo to Kiev and social movements like #BlackLivesMatter,Twitter has long been a force for social change. Though it may be on the ropes now, the messaging service has occupied a seat at historys table, often playing the role of first witness to events that have gone on to shake and shape the world.RedditThe Peoples NewsIf Twitter is a technological counterpart to Ernest Hemingways rough draft of history  pithy, short, direct (give me a minute itll make sense)  thenReddit(another winner) is its James Joyce-style stream of consciousness. The true wisdom (or folly) of the crowd is on full display every day in Reddits community of users posting about the flotsam, jetsam and icebergs that shape the 24-hour Internet news (or hype) cycle.The Snowden Revelations The Heart Of The Privacy DebateFor better or for worse, Edward Snowden has become the face of the global debate over civil liberties and security. Through a series of blockbuster revelations taken from government files he harvested from top secret servers for years, Snowden showed just how deeplythe globalsecurity apparatus of governments had penetrated our private lives. His efforts changed policy, threw a spotlight on practices that the men pulling the levers of power would have rather kept in the shadows, and showed just how exposed we all are to the prying eyes of the state.Its a lofty group of compatriots that the newest Crunchie winner will join. The next person to get a seat at this illustrious tablewill be announced at the 9th Annual Crunchies on February 8, and youre definitely going to want to be there in person.Tickets to the show are still available starting at $115, but hurry because prices will increase at midnight PT tonight forthe event thats best described as the Oscars of Startups and Technology on our ticketing page.And take note: In past years there have been long lines to get into the Crunchies. Were fixing that by opening the doors earlier and adding lots more ticket scanners. It is also easier than ever to get a drink with an enormous bar on the lower level next to Best of Startup Alley!Our sponsors help make the Crunchies happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.