There are only a few short weeks until the 9th Annual Crunchies show on February 8 at San Franciscos War Memorial Opera House. At the show, some of the best and brightest startups and leaders are contending for the opportunity to win a Crunchie in one of the 12 categories up for grabs. Todays feature takes a look at the finalists for the Best Overall Startup of 2015, an award given to the company that had the most impact on the tech landscape over the course of the year. Below are the companies that have been selected as finalists for the Best Overall Startup award, as well as a look at the companies who have won this award previously.DockerDocker is an open platform that allows developers and system administrators to quickly and easily build, ship and run distributed applications using containers, discrete programming building blocks.SlackSlack is a team communication and sharing app that is trying to help change the way we work. It features real time communication and collaboration tools, letting users collaborate and share files easily. And, everything shared is searchable to team members can always find what they need, when they need it. SnapchatSnapchat began as a service that let users share pictures that automatically disappeared after a brief period of time. Thats still largely how the service is used, but the company has added longer-duration stories, live stories and a Discover channel that connects users with content from brands like ESPN and CNN. UberIf you dont know what Uber is by now, youve definitely not been paying attention. The concierge transportation service connects passengers with drivers at the tap of a button on Ubers mobile app. The whole transaction is cashless and seamless, and users can rate their experience so the company and its drivers get feedback about how theyre doing to provide a better experience. And it won the Best Overall Startup of 2014 Crunchie at last years show. Could it win two years in a row?XiaomiOne company you might not know too much about is Xiaomi, a Beijing, China-based company that makes all sorts of consumer electronics, predominantly smartphones and wearables. Xiaomi is third only to Fitbit and Apple in the number of wearables it shipped in Q3 2015, though it lost its long-running lead in Chinese smartphone sales to Huawei in that same quarter. Facebook  1st, 2nd and 3rd Annual Crunchies WinnerArguably no startup out there has had the impact that Facebook has had on the way we communicate online, and it showed with the social network winning the Best Overall Startup award the first three years the Crunchies were held. With over 1.5 billion monthly active users, Facebook remains a behemoth in the social networking space. Twitter  4thAnnual Crunchies WinnerAfter Facebook won three years in a row, it was time for another social network to steal the crown  Twitter. Unlike Facebook, Twitter limits users to 140 characters when sending tweets  though that may soon grow to 10,000  and became an indispensable part of the way people communicate and share things on the web. It now has 320 million monthly active users. Dropbox  5thAnnual Crunchies WinnerDropbox is a cloud storage platform that provides users with a certain amount of free storage that can be accessed anywhere, with premium options with more storage available to purchase. Cloud storage has been one of the major innovations of the smartphone era, and Dropbox was essential in ushering it into the mainstream.GitHub  6thAnnual Crunchies WinnerIf theres one thing thats made it easier for developers to collaborate on projects, its GitHub. GitHub is the worlds largest open-source community that lets developers share projects with others, and offers integrated issue/bug tracking, feature requests and collaborative code review that helps developers improve their software with help from the community. Kickstarter  7thAnnual Crunchies WinnerIf youve ever backed a crowdfunding campaign, chances are you did it on Kickstarter. The service launched in April 2009, and pretty much put crowdfunding on the map. Since its launch, there have been just under 99,000 successfully funded projects on Kickstarter, with over 10 million backers contributing over $2.15 billion to help make these projects a reality. Will Uber repeat as Best Overall Startup in 2015, or will the ridesharing service make way for someone else to steal the crown? Find out for yourself and check out the other amazing startups at the 9th Annual Crunchies awards in February, and the best way to experience the Crunchies is to be there yourself. Tickets to the show are still available starting at $115, and you can pick up your ticket to the event thats best described as the Oscars of Startups and Technology on our ticketing page.Our sponsors help make the Crunchies happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.