What if the Instagram of song samples was Instagram? This is what a French startup is currently noticing with its latest app. Sounds is an iPhone and Android app that lets you discover music and also seamlessly share your favorite songs to multiple social networks, including Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook Messenger and Tinder.Unlike other apps, we only use the cover art when you share a song, co-founder and CEO Rhai Goburdhun told me. Thats why our users share a lot more often. We dont use music as a way to showcase user-generated content.The company started three years ago with another app. Its been a long and windy road, but Sounds seems to be the winner the team was looking for. Its one of the most popular ways to share songs on Instagram, which has become quite popular ever since Instagram added videos.While Sounds also works with other social networks, Instagram is by far the most popular network among users. Every time you share a song on Instagram, there is a watermark in the bottom right corner telling you that this short sample was made using Sounds. Heres how it looks like: Big Sean  Play No Games feat. Chris Brown & Ty Dolla $ignA video posted by i_am_kiko (@i_am_kiko) on Sep 29, 2015 at 10:18pm PDTWe signed a partnership with The Fader for example. When professionals share something, they dont have a watermark. In exchange, we ask them for some feedback. So far, we have 3,000 artists and labels using Sounds, Goburdhun said.Partners include Ed Banger Records, The Bowery Ballroom and Bromance Records. The company is also currently talking with major music labels (Sony, Warner, Universal) to sign direct licensing deals and stop relying on the SoundCloud API.And this is key to understanding Sounds  Instagram sharing is just the first step. At heart, Sounds remains a music discovery app powered by SoundCloud, iTunes and Spotify samples. If the startup can sign deals with labels, it could create discovery channels with curated playlists created by artists and labels.While the company is not there yet as there are very few channels, 25 percent of the user base already spends more than 2 hours listening to music in the app every day.In six months, we want to make Sounds the unique portal to your music. We are going to add a Shazam-like song identification feature, and all of this without adding new screens, Goburdhun said. Youll be able to discover, listen, share, identify and even maybe buy concert tickets.As you can see, the company is very ambitious. Its going to be hard given that it competes with heavyweights, such as Spotify, Apple and YouTube. But there is one thing for sure, Sounds found a great viral loop with its Instagram sharing feature.