Mercari, a peer-to-peer marketplace app, has claimed the title of Japans first pre-IPO startup unicorn after raising 8.4 billion yen (about $75 million) at a valuation of over $1 billion. This is the Tokyo-based companys first Series D and brings its total funding to 12.6 billion yen (about $111 million).The round includes new investors Mitsui & Co, Development Bank of Japan Inc., and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Banks Japan Co-Invest, along with returning backers Globis Capital Partners, World Innovation Lab, and Global Brain.Chief financial officer Kei Nagasawa says the new capital will be used to grow Mercaris services in Japan and expand in the United States (where it launched in September 2014) and the European Union. The company is also keeping an eye on potential merger and acquisition targets.The three-year-old company claims its apphas been downloaded a total of 32 million times (with seven million of that number from the U.S.) and that its current gross merchandise value is above 10 billion Japanese yen (about $88 million) per month.Its worth noting that Japan has several public tech companies that have reached a market capitalizationof at least a billion dollars. Mercarisannual revenue meant it had the opportunity to hold an IPOon the Tokyo Stock Exchange, but Nagasawa says it decided to stay private to retainstrategic flexibility as it expands overseas.In the U.S., Mercari has to compete with a long roster of e-commerce players, including Amazon and eBay. It focuses on mobile commerce, but in that categoryit is up against other well-funded startups like Wish (which connects Chinese merchants with American customers), Jet, and fashion marketplace Poshmark (about half of the products sold on Mercari in Japan are clothing and accessories).Mercari, however, has had practice differentiating itself in Japan, where it came in as a rivalto Yahoo Japans Yahoo Auctions, whichlike Mercarialso focuses on consumer-to-consumer transactions.Nagasawa says the companys strength is positioning itself with a pure mobile focus on C2C, making it easy to list items on itsapps, and monitoring vendors closely to make sure none of them are actually business merchants pretending to be individual sellers (its customer service team has about 100 employees in Japan, the U.S., and the Philippines who keep an eye on listings).It also integrates with Yamato Transport, one of Japans largest logistics companies, to provide shipping: once vendors sell an item, they get a barcode they can stick on their package before dropping it off at Yamatos service centers without having to write out addresses or calculate postage.Trying To SucceedWhere Other Asian E-Commerce Giants HaventIn the United States, Mercari has stuck to a similar strategy. It also positions itself as a flea market app, for users to sell each other small consumer goods like clothing and collectibles. It has partnered with USPS and FedEx for shipment and uses Braintree as a payment vendor.We do acknowledge that eBay is still the dominant player, but there is no dominant player at this point in mobile. We are a pure mobile player. Another difference is that while you see a lot of classified players in the U.S., like Craigslist and OfferUp, they dont manage payment and logistics also, says Nagasawa.Mercari makes revenue by taking 10 percent of each sales in Japan, but it wont monetize in the U.S. until it gains more scale and is still deciding what its take rate there will be.With its newly minted unicorn status and worldwide expansion plans, Mercari earns itself comparisons to Rakuten and Alibaba, two Asian e-commerce players that have become very successful in their home markets of Japan and China, respectively, but struggled to gain a foothold in the U.S.When asked how Mercari plans to succeed therewhen Rakuten (Japans largest e-commerce site) hasnt been able to, Nagasawa says that the business-to-consumer market is more competitive and that Mercari wants to do a better job of localizing by hiring local product managers in its U.S. office and sending its Japanese engineers over there to work with them.I think thats the key to see how our product thrives in the U.S. Were not doing a fundamental change of our product, but there are a lot of tweaks. For example, in Japan, people spend a lot of time on the platform. The average daily active user spends more than 40 minutes on the platform. Its like a magazine, you flip through the pages but you arent looking for something specific, he says. Thats the preference for Japanese users, but in the U.S. people want to search more efficiently and they want more recommendations.