It was a big morning for Mic  the company announced that it has raised $17 million in new funding, and that its hired Madhulika Sikka, previously executive editor at NPR News, to take on the same title at Mic.As is contractuallyrequired for anydigital media companyraising a big round of funding, Mic is aiming for an audience of millennials. At the same time, the tones a bit more serious than a site like BuzzFeed. (The site was originally called PolicyMic, and while it has rebranded to reflect a broader scope, politics is still a big part of the mix.)The company has had some bumps (it fired news director Jared Keller after Gawker reportedmultiple instances of plagiarism), but it says its audience tripled between January 2014 and May 2015, from 9 million to 30 million, with 70 percent of those readers under the age of 35.Co-founder and CEO Christopher Altchek has big plans for expansion  he told me the 45-person newsroom will grow to more 100 people in the next 18 months. Altchek suggested that Sikka is the ideal person to lead this growth.She did a great job transforming NPR and bringing it into the 21st century, he said. She also did a great job at NPR of hiring new stars and making it a much more diverse place to work. Thats  part-and-parcel with Mics DNA.As for why Sikka wanted to join Mic, she said in the hiring release, Millennials are a vast, engaged audience and I am excited to join an organization that is committed to growing a vital, relevant news brand for the nations largest demo.Naturally, the Series B funding will play a big part in that growth, too. The round was led by previous investor Lightspeed Venture Partners. European media giant Axel Springer also participated, as did existing backers Lerer Hippeau Ventures, Jim Clark, Advancit Capital, Red Swan Ventures and the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. The company has now raised more than $32 million total.And yes, there are plans to increase spending on video. Mic launched its first video series, Flip the Script, back in March, and Altchek said it has seen 33 million views across its eight episodes.Were going to become a text and video brand, and were going to be fluent in both, he said. And its going to work on any screen. Whether its on your phone, laptop or tablet, Mic is going to be there.