Update: For a #hottake, we made you a #video so that you can enjoy more #content!This morning Microsoft announced changes to its organizational structure and leadership team.Some of its most senior executives are departing, and the company is shifting internal teams in what the company described as a change to better match its personnel to its strategy, according to a memo published both internally and externally by its CEO, Satya Nadella.Its worth noting that Microsoft is coming up on the end of its fiscal year, making the changes not particularly temporally surprising. Still, the internal reshuffling is notable as it helps underscore how the software company is working to change to face a rapidly evolving market.In its memo, Microsoft said that the changes will help it build at a faster pace, and improve engineering alignment. For a company known in the past for having fractious internal units, the changes are interesting as they appear to be designed to combat its infamous discord.The best way to approach the changes is to take it in pieces. Well start with Windows.Terry Myerson, formerly the head of the companys operating system work, will pick up new responsibilities inthe new structure. Specifically, Myerson will now lead a new unitcalled the Windows and Devices Group that combines Microsofts Windows work, and its hardware.The Windows and Devices group is simply named: The division will include Windows, and the devices that have become associated with the companys hardware push  think Lumia, HoloLens, Surface Hub, Xbox, and Surface.The combination of hardware under Myerson with one of the firms most internally critical platforms might sound odd  why fuse hardware and software? The answer, so far as I can discern from watching the company over the past few years, is that the hardware effortsat Microsoft havelong been a conveyance mechanism for Windows.Thats become mildly less true as Microsoft has ground out improving developer support from third parties, but the hardware work of the company falls under the broader Windows rubric. Xbox, Lumia, and Surfacefor example are all products that leverage Windows 10 in increasing quantity.Apple has long been lauded for harmony between its hardware and software work. Microsoft, by combining its now-formerOperating Systems Group and Devices Group is likely hoping for similar synergy.So, a promotion for Myerson, and one that puts him in place to be the next CEO of Microsoft. Thisleads us to the next piece of news:Out.The returning Microsoftie didnt make it to the two-year mark this time around. Stephen Elop is best known for leaving Microsoft for Nokia, and then bringing thatcompanys hardware assets to Redmond. Given that Myerson is now running his ship, there isnt much need for two captains.Akin to Myerson, Soctt Guthrie is accreting more responsibility. Keeping his place atop the companys cloud business, Guthrie is also picking up the engineering assets from Microsofts Dynamics business.According to the Microsoft memo, Dynamics is now close to a $2 billion business. Thats a revenue statistic, of course, not a market value metric. For reference, Box, a company that sells enterprise file sharing services to enterprise customers is projecting revenue of under $300 million in the current year. Box is valued at more than $2 billion by the public markets.Given that Guthrie is snagging some Dynamics assets, the following:Out.Microsoft said in its memo that it learned from Kirill Tatarinov  who ran Dynamics the importance of CRM. Given the companys carefully worded note, I cant be entirely certain, but it seems that the company is fragmenting the Dynamics team into other divisions entirely.Qi Lu, head of the companysApplications and Services Group is picking up the companys education efforts engineering assets. This, again, is one of Microsofts senior leadership team (SLT) picking up more responsibility.The other side of that is:Eric Rudder is out. Rudder did a number of things at Microsoft over the last quarter century, but his final tenure involved the same education efforts that Lu is taking on.Again, two chefs and a single soup is akin to watching me cook: No one is happy, most people want to crowd the kitchen, and then we end up eating bad pizza and dreaming of living in New York.Also bouncing is Mark Penn, a controversial figure inside of Microsoft.Interestingly, Microsoft did not note that Penn would return to politics specifically, instead saying that the now-former executive would form a private equity fund, among other things. It will be quite interesting to see what those other things are. Regardless, they will not be Microsoft things.Microsoft has had a busy few years trying to rebuild itself to better fit the current, and coming technology market. A new CEO  Satya Nadella  a previous re-org, and a business model shakeuphave all been put into place.With the above changes whats notable is that Microsoft isnt actually shiftingcourse, but instead appears to be doubling down on its plans.Moving hardware into Windows, for example, isnt abandoning hardware, or slimming it down I wouldnt think  the company wouldnt be shipping new hardware lines, or software to run on its phones if it wanted to shirk the responsibility.Andto be clear, I dont think that Microsoft is shedding its most popular executives.A final thought: By giving Myerson more responsibility in the face of the coming Windows 10 launch, Microsoft is giving its current Windows Boss a vote of confidence. Should its current operating system efforts falter, Myerson now has a higher perch from which to fall.More soon, I have some calls to make.