MicrosoftsSkype for Business, the communications service designed to replace theolder tool Microsoft Lync, is rolling out publicly to iOS users today, the company announced this morning. The app, now live on the iTunes App Store, was first introduced into preview (aka beta testing) earlier this summer on both iOS and Android platforms. Similar to the consumer version of Skype, the app lets you chat using both voice and video, instant message, conference call, and more. But it also includes a number of features aimed at business users, including enhanced security and integrations with Microsofts Active Directory, for example.The Skype for Business iOS app, now that its launched to the public, will automatically update the Lync app that was previously installed on usersiPhones or iPads.Microsoft also notes that the new version will resolve some of the issues testers had experienced, including a troublesome issue with sign-ins with Lync 2013 on Apples latest version of its mobile operating system, iOS 9.In addition, users will have access to anupdated dashboard featuring a search bar for locating contacts, a list of upcoming meetings, and a list of recent conversations. The search bar will allow users to find anyone from their companys Global Address List by first or last name, email alias or phone numbers, though the app will also allow users to chat with anyone who usesSkype, even if theyre not a company employee. All thats required is that the other user have a Skype ID.The app also features afull-screen video calling experience, larger mute button, and the ability to view content being shared and the speakers video at the same time. A future release will also include the ability to view PowerPoint slides within a meeting, but currently the only way to do this is via desktop sharing in the app.For businesses using Office 365, IT admins can configure multi-factor authentication for the Skype for Business iOS app via ActiveDirectory Authentication Library (ADAL)-based authentication for added security. That means users would be required to respond to a call, text or app notification on their device after entering in their user name and password to sign in. A guide for IT admins that will help users with the transition from Lync to Skype is also now available.Though the Skype for Business iOS app is now live for all, the Android version is still in testing and wont be released until later this year. Interested businesses can sign up here for updates on that rollout.Microsofts plans to replaceLync were announced last year, as the company began unifying its products under the for Business branding. That brand also includes OneDrive for Business, Microsofts cloud storage service.The software,detailed atConvergenceby CEOSatya Nadella, is meant to resemble the consumer-friendlySkype in look-and-feel, but additionally includesenterprise-grade security, compliance and IT control.