Microsoft todayannouncedearnings for its third financial quarter of 2016. The company reported non-GAAP revenue of $22.1 billion for the last quarter and $0.62 of adjusted earnings per share (EPS) and $0.47 GAAP EPS.Wall Street expected Microsoft to report an EPS of $0.64 on revenue of just under $22.1 billion. Microsofts own guidance for the quarter was for revenue to be somewhere between $21.1 billion and $22.3 billion.Wall Street is obviously not happy with these numbers. Microsofts stock is currently down close to5percent in after-hours trading.As Microsofts director of investor relations Zack Moxcey told me after the earnings release hit, the EPS miss is mostly due to the fact that these numbers include Microsofts catch-up adjustments for its income tax expenses. Without these, he noted, the EPS would have been $0.04 higher and would have beaten Wall Street expectations.Previously, the company said itexpected for this number to hit $20 billion in 2018. It didnt reiterate this number in todays press release, though Moxcey told me that the company is sticking with this number.We feel this is a solid performance across the board, hetold me. Certainly, the cloud continues to be a highlight for us.Organizations using digital technology to transform and drive new growth increasingly choose Microsoft as a partner, said Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. As these organizations turn to us, were seeing momentum across Microsofts cloud services and with Windows 10.Microsoft started breaking out results for different business units with its Q1 2016 report and it continues this tradition with this quarters report.Here is what the rest of these numberslook like.Unsurprisingly, phone revenue declined 46 percent compared to last year. On the positive side, Surface revenue increased 61 percent year-over-year and Moxcey noted that this marked the second quarter in a row that Surface itself drove more than $1 billion revenue. At the same time, though, Windows OEM revenue was down 2 percent. Moxcey noted that this still outperformed the PC market, mostly because the first wave of Windows 10 devices was generally pricier and drove up Microsofts revenue per unit.One other number everybody was lookingfor in todays announcement was howMicrosofts commercial cloud business is doing  especially as the PC market remains sluggish. In the last quarter,Microsoft saidthis segment was on a $9.4 billion annual run rate, up from $8.2 billion in the quarter before that. Now, the company says the annual run rate has hit $10 billion.While Microsofts last quarter didnt quite live up to Wall Streets expectations, those cloud numbers and the increase in Office 365 subscriptions show that the companys overall turn-around plan is working, though.