Fans of branding confusion will be pleased to hearMicrosoft hasnt ditched the Nokia phone brand quite yet. Its just announced a new entry level mobile phone, badged withthe Nokia name: the Nokia 215, dubbing the handset its most affordable Internet-ready entry level phone yet  and aiming it at first time mobile buyers starting in the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Europe in Q1.Likely Microsoft is more comfortable carrying on trading on the brandof thecompany whose mobile making division it acquiredlast year (for some$7.2 billion) here at the barrel-scraping end of the devicespectrum. The Nokia 215 is not a smartphone  so does not run Microsofts Windows Phone OS  but it is a very inexpensive dumbphone: priced at just $29 before taxes or subsidies.Low price aside, whats most interesting about an otherwise uninteresting mobile phone is that Microsoft is carrying on Nokias strategy of trying to sex up dumbphones with some smartphone-esque features.In February 2013 Nokia was releasing a basic mobile for $85 with smarter-than-average camera phone features.Roll the clock on nearly two years and Microsoft is pushing this same strategy to an even lower price point, albeit the Nokia 215 does not have 3.5G or even 3G. Its a 2G device with Bluetooth  so the Internet-ready description is, to put it charitably, rathertenuous.And, in fact, the Nokia 215 is not quiteas cheap as the $25Nokia 130  announced by Microsoft back in August  but those few extra bucks buy a few more smarts. SpecificallyMicrosoft has preloaded Facebook Messenger onto the device, touting instant notifications of when your friends ping you via its Messenger chat app.So its evidently hoping to tap upthe appeal of the social web as a stand in for the full-fat Internet, which isnt going to be any kind of pleasing experience on this handset (the Opera Mini browser and Bing Search are thebasic web navigation tools in this 2G toolbox). Ergo Microsoft is aiming to trade on Facebooks appeal, as well as Nokias brand clout in emerging markets.Nokia 215 is our first entry-level phone to come with Facebook and Messenger with instant notifications, giving people more options to connect with friends and family, notedMicrosoft in a statement.(Long time Nokia watchers will recall that company previously tried to hitch its low end phone wagon to Facebook and other messaging appsbyputting physical keys on devices to fire up specificsocial services.)Why is Microsoft making this dumb phone, rather than trying to squeeze the price-point of its Lumia smartphones even lower? Well its doing that too. But at $29 this dumbphone goes where Lumia cant and where the growth in the mobile market is strongest. Microsoft isevidentlyhoping to hookfirst time mobile ownersonto its services with the carrot ofa very tasty price-point.As well as Bing Search the phone has MSN Weather. So thats at least two Microsoft brands it can push before digitally impressionable eyeballs. Whether that translates into any long time brand loyalty and/or subsequent upgrades to Lumia smartphones remains to be seen.The latter seems unlikely, given how low Androids price-point already goes. But perhaps Microsoft is also laying the ground work for a services-centric future in mobile  if it runs out of road/will-power for pushingits own platform.Using another mobile platform to push Microsoft-branded serviceswas also a strategy cooked up by Nokia  with its Nokia X fork of Android.Butafter acquiring Nokias mobile division last year Microsoft killed off thisAndroid trojan horse to concentrate efforts on pushing its Lumia smartphones.And while it initially appeared the company would axe all Nokias low end mobile phones, Microsofts Jo Harlowsubsequently confirmed the company sees potential to convert low end consumers to Microsoft account holdersvia dumbphones. And so we arrive at theNokia 215.