Despite having its own wearable on the market with the Microsoft Band, Microsoft will support the Apple Watch, it appears. The company recently rolled out an update tothe iOS app for OneDrive, its cloud storage service, which will now allow Apple Watch owners to view their photos saved in OneDrive right from their wrist using Apples new smartwatch. This addedfeature makes OneDrive the first of Microsofts numerous iOS applications to supportthe watch.Explains Microsoft in the App Store update text, from the Apple Watch, OneDrive users will be ableto view their most recent photos and delete those they dont want to keep, view their albums, as well as locate photos by tag  all from the Apple Watchs small screen.Of course, its unclear at this time whether or not Apple Watch owners will actually be interested in viewing photos from their wrist  after all, the smartphone in their pocket will still offer a better experience for this sort of activity. But that hasnt stopped companies from rolling out Apple Watch support for their photoapps. Instagram, for example, was one of the initial third-party applications Apple showed off during the Apple Watch event in Cupertino in March, and its new Apple Watch app will mark the first time the company has embraced a wearable device of any sort  having yet to launch apps for Googles smartwatches or Google Glass, previously.Its not all that surprising to see Microsoft, too, embracing the Apple Watch platform. Though Microsoft and Apple have historically been fierce rivals, Microsofts strategy under CEOSatya Nadella hasseen the company developing versions ofits most popular products and services for competing mobile platforms, including iOS and Android. The company debutedOffice for iOS last year,as well asOutlook for iOS and Android, various MSN properties, and more. Itnow has over100 iOS and Android applicationsin total, including those that are more experimental in nature, like itsAndroid lockscreen apps from Microsoft Garage.With Apple Watch support now under its belt, Microsoft is again proving that its truly working to be a cross-platform player in this new mobile landscape,as opposed to one that promotes its own platform and services to the exclusion of others.The addition of OneDrive to Apple Watch is interesting for another reason, as well, because it means that Microsoft has beaten Googlein bringing its cloud storage service to AppleWatch. Though Google has iOS versions of nearly all its major apps and services, including Gmail, Drive, Maps, and more, the company has been quiet about whether or not it has Apple Watch apps in the works. Instead, its current plans in this space are reportedly focused on bringing Android Wear support to iOS owners, rather than Google apps to Apple Watch owners.