Microsoftwill todayshow off and demonstrate the mobile, and consumer-facing elements of its Windows 10 operating system. The company previously demoed, and released the corporate sideof the same OS last year.Windows 10 represents Microsofts attempt to unify its core platform to work across device categories. The OneCore effort is something that will bring Windows 10 to your phone, tablet, laptop, and television.Microsoft is expected to make its pitch that code can stretch far  Apple, of course, currently offers two distinct experiences, based roughly on whethertouch input will be present or not. Microsoft, however, is betting that it can do it all at once, without a hitch.The companys work to unify the various forms of input, including voice, touch, keyboard, mice, and so forth will be a key element of the reveal. Cortana will be a part of Windows 10, but it is not clear how much of it we will see today.The event will stream live here, in case you want to tune in. TechCrunch will be covering the event as it unfolds.Microsoft should have on tap today a touch-based Office, Cortana, a new browser, a better pitch to developers, and a unified core . According to the usually impervious Mary Jo Foley, Microsoft will not be shipping mobile code for some time, however:But tomorrow will not be the day Microsoft releases the first preview of the mobile version of its Windows 10 operating system, according sources close to Microsoft. Instead, the first public release of the Windows 10 mobile SKU  which sources have said will work on both Windows Phones and smaller Intel- and ARM-based tablets  wont happen until some time in February 2015.That is a disappointment  we wont get our hands on that portion of the codebase for a few weeks. But at the same time, when you are developing in real time, you cant always get stuff out the door in time to massage the press. The core premise of Windows 10 remains the same.Some in the media are playing a bit hard to catch when it comes to todays event. Business Insiders Matt Rosoffs take is perhaps average:Windows 8 was a confusing mess that alienated a lot of longtime Windows users and loyalists without helping Microsoft capture much of the rising tablet market.PC sales went into free fall through most of 2013, and were down again in 2014. Around the time of the Windows 8 release then-CEO Steve Ballmer and other executives often threw out the figure of 400 million PCs shipped per year. In fact, the number in 2014 was just over 300 million.You cant blame this entirely on Windows 8  the global economy has been weak for most of that time, and consumers have a lot more options. But Windows 8 certainly didnt help.So what can Microsoft do to make Windows relevant again?Microsoft could be slightly worried about todays shindig. Can it prove that Windows still matters? Well find out in just about two hours.