If you have young children, or your children arent so old that you can still remember what a pain clunky car seats can be, you might want to acquaint yourself withthree-year-old, Raanana, Israel-based mifold.The founders of King Digital Entertainment did. In fact, after seeing the Indiegogo campaign of mifoldand its accompanying video, they reached out to mifoldfounder Jon Sumroy on LinkedIn of all places,asking if they could plug $1.5 million into the company.Sumroy says its the first formal investment out of theKing foundersseed-stagefund, Sweet Capital. Sumroyalso says that mifold has now raised $3.3 million altogether, including earlier seed rounds that came from friends, family, and several early production partners thatlike what the company is building.As a parent whos entering the carpooling phase of her sons lives, Idefinitely get it. Plainly, so do the 15,000 customers whove pre-ordered roughly 30,0000 mifold car seats, which are expected to start rolling off the production line in late March, at$39.99 apiece (or slightly less bought in bulk).Fact is, thereare many times a more portable car seat would be ideal, and there arent a lot of attractive options on the market. My husband and Icurrently use these for our kids, by Graco. Theyre fine. Theyre fairly lightweight, especially compared with what we usedwhen our kids were younger (like these monstrosities).Still, when we travel or use ride-hailing services, our sons seats dont quite work,unless one of uswants to carry a giant booster seat under eacharm, which wedo not. With a major uptick in kid-related commitments, were also realizing how much nicer it would be if we had smaller booster seatsand more of themto accommodate our sons friends.A 2012 study published in the journal Pediatrics underscores the problem.According to this particularsurvey of 1,600 parents across the U.S. with children between the ages of 4 and 8, 76 percent reported using a safety seat while using their family car. Yet only 55 percent usedseats for their kids friends when shuttling them around. As amazingly, justone-fifth of carpooling parents ask other drivers to use a booster seat for their child.Were not inclined to go down that path, and with mifold, we shouldnt have to. Its 10 times smaller than standard booster seats. The company says its products are just as safe. (Insteadof having a lap belt across the stomach, which is dangerous, mifold straps the belt across the hip joints.) And crucially, for children ages 4 to 12, or 40 pounds to 120 pounds, the seat has been proven to comply withfederal safety regulations in the U.S., U.K., and Europe.Now Sumroya father of four and formerly a marketing executiveat Johnson & Johnson and Unileverjust needs to get the things made and into the backseats of customers cars before a giant like Rubbermaid (which owns Graco) beats him to the punch.Asked aboutwhispers thatmanufacturers might be developing a similar product, Sumroy tells us he has talked with two of the largest, and that both claim that theyre aware of the ultra compact market and saytheyve been looking at it for a long time.Says Sumroy, I suppose that surprises me, because if they had, they would have come up with a product that addresses this need.