Major League Baseball had a nice little opening day for itself yesterday as record numbers of people accessedgames through liveand on-demand video streams. In fact, a total 60 million people came through the virtual turn-styles using MLB.com,MLB.TV, the MLB At Bat mobile app and MLB.com-controlled social media channels onFacebook and Twitter.The streaming numbers were up 60 percent from last year and there are a number of reasons for that, according to Bob Bowman, president, MLB Business and Media.People are ready for baseball. It was a very tough winter in New Englandand the midwest. Baseball, more than robins, is the true signof spring,Bowman told TechCrunch.Whats more, from a technology perspective, the infrastructure is in place and people expect to be able to do this.Thats why our numbers are up, he said.He also trumpeted the 9M opens on the MLB At Bat app. Nine million was a surprising number to us, Bowman said. Its a40 percent increase overlast years figures and they know that 30 percent watched live streams, 20 percent listened to audio streams and another 20 percent were using the live pitch by pitch tool that lets you see a graphical representation of the game in near real time with a realistic representations of every MLB park. The remainder were using other features such as checking scores.The key thing is fanscan touch the game every day. Nine millionopens tells you people dont want to be away from the game. We make it easy and enjoyable and it sells itself. Nobody thought baseballwould be suited to digital technology, but it is, Bowman said.He recognizes that opening day is special and that they wont keep up these numbers all year, but he believes with such big numbers, it certainly bodes well for the year. Its opening day. Everyone is in first on opening day, but its heartening, he said.Bowman said that MLB has been workingat delivering digital servicesfor years, long before there were apps or iPhones, but he says the numbers show the market is ready and its helping attract a broader audience to the game.Millennials love [accessing MLB on their mobile devices], but older people love it too, he said.MLBs new commissioner Rob Manfredalsoacutely understands the power and importance of digital media inattracting a broader audience to the game.Iloved [former commissioner] Bud Selig, but having Manfred who understands and relies on digital media is [a big change]. We have spoken aboutthis and we want to press the advantage, he said.Baseball is a game of tradition that goes back over 100 years, but its changing with the times and being accessible on digital media is a big part of that. It allows people to stay connected to the game anywhere, anytime from any device.The technologyhasnt changed the game itself, but it increases the numbers, growth and age potential  and the ability to reach more people. We are blessedwith a great game and technology is deliberatelyor inadvertentlychanging the [way people interact with the] game.