Software or hardware? Finnish mobile device and Sailfish OS maker Jolla has always intended doing both. But thatcould be changing.Today the companyannounced its forking itself, splitting its business intotwo. One of those businesses will be fully focused on pushing itsSailfish software platform forward.Every young company has to find its clear focus at some time,and for Jolla that time is now, said Jolla board chairman,Dr. Antti Saarnio, commenting on the changes in a statement. We have huge opportunities in the Sailfish OS licensingbusiness After three years of intensive Sailfish OS research development we are now moving full speed to new bigger waters, which requires full focus on software from the team.The splitfollows a strategic push by the company towards forming regional partnerships to develop locally flavored versions ofits Sailfish OS in the BRICS emerging markets. The opportunity it sees being to offer an OS that supports more localization than Googles dominant Android OS affords, given the lattersfocus on promoting Google services (whereas Sailfish-based devices could be tightly integrated with local ecommerce players and the like).The new Jolla Ltd will concern itself entirely with thedevelopment and licensing of itsSailfish mobile OS, Jolla said today. While afuture (as yet unnamed) business willbe establishedto continue buildingdevices or at least to do so where the company seesa specific interest from privacy-aware consumers and corporations around the world.The wording of Jollas press release is a little vague, so its possible Jolla is leaving itself some wiggle room to retreat from hardware entirely. Or at least from new hardware (although it also talks of focusing on security enhanced devices). Weve put some questions to Jolla about its intentions with the split, how the business assets will be divided across the two companies, and whether it is committed to building new devices and will update this story with any response.Update:Asked directly whether the new Jolla company was committed to making new hardware Saarnio told TechCrunch he can confirm it is committed to building new devices but added: Theres a limitation that the company is not yet established so theres a plan to start producing it. I personally believe they will start producing smart hardware, smartphones or smart devices, in the future. Thats the plan and the intention.The scopeof the new Jolla devices company may also bebroader than the first wave Jolla, which has brought onesmartphone to market and is in the midst of building a tablet. This new company will have quite a lot of freedom to do all kinds of handsets. And I think what we are looking for is to create a young brand with this thats able to expand to different interesting areas and utilize the existing hardware ecosystem with this, Saarnio added.Hesaid the forthcoming Jolla devices business could even considerusing alternative software platforms in addition to Sailfish  by offering multi-OS devices. I would not rule out the possibilityto have devices that are carrying multiple operating systems, he told TechCrunch. I think thats an interesting idea, especially if we include there some security and privacy aspects in with the devices.Jolla has previously said it plans to offer a security hardened version of Sailfish, called Sailfish Secure. Differentiating mobile hardware on privacy and security grounds is something other startups are doing, such as Silent Circles Blackphone initiative. Multiple companies are lookingto capitalize on former mobile security kingpin Blackberrys marketshare collapse, and tocompete with Googles Android on privacy grounds.Indeed, this is not limited to startups; Apple has recently ramped up its messaging around user data protection, implicitly contrastingits hardware devices business withGoogles ad-driven business model. So there are plenty of companies scenting opportunity here; Jolla is just the latest to consider taking a dip.Saarnio will be taking charge of the new software-focused Jolla Ltd. Former CEOTomi Pienimki, has been appointed to a new position outside the company,in which he will move during August  so presumably hes joining the as-yet unnamed Jolla devicebusiness. Although perhaps not as CEO; Jolla said a new leader for Jolla devices business will beappointed during this autumn.Saarnio said its not yet decided who else (if anyone) will be leaving to join thedevices business. We need to understand that this new devices business will be a very, very new startup and it has very different kinds of needs in terms of management as well Only a very thin organization will be needed in the beginning, he added.Most of the things can be outsourced.This is not about dividing Jolla into two businesses; this is about focusing current Jolla into Sailfish OS development as it has  basically  90 per cent of the investment and resources have been going there already. And I actually think that both of our organizations will focus on the Sailfish OS business. And then we will build a completely new organization, probably utilizing quite a lotof the services and resources as a wonderful customer to Sailfish OS organization.Asked about the motivations for creating two separate businesses, rather than continuing to operate both hardware and software under one roof,Saarnio said its a question of manageability, and the different needs of two very different types of businesses stretching limited startup resources.Its very difficult to manage two such different businesses in one young company, he said. You can imagine that if you have basically one management team it either can discuss aboutexpanding Sailfish OS or expanding Jolla device business. But combining those two into one company is very, very confusing.And the second thing is that by the capital nature and business type of nature those are very different cases. The Sailfish OS is very R&D capital intensive. It requires lots of investment. And the device business should be very lean. And has lower margins and high expenses. So, especially from the investment point of view those are two very different animals thats why its very difficult to, at least in a startup environment, grow both of them This could be very different if we were a more established company, and we could have different divisions. But I dont believe that goeswell in a startup environment. People have to believe in something and focus on something. By creating two separate companies in this way we can win in both areas.In its PR, Jolla name-checks India and Russia as markets where itsSailfish OShas been making a splash in recent months. Its platform has won supporters in the Russian government, with comms minister Nikolai Nikiforov earlier this year saying the Federationwould be paying local devs to migrate apps to Sailfish (and other open platforms)  to promotealternatives to U.S.-controlled mobile platforms.Meanwhile Saarnio saidJollawill have anannouncement aboutIndia partnershipscoming next week, at Mobile World Congress Shanghai, with major corporations in terms of device licensing and other ecosystem partnerships  adding: This should be the biggest announcement so far from Jolla.He couchedthe forthcoming India announcement asa proof of concept for Jollas BRICs-focused business model, adding:. I dont see any reason why we would not be able to expand this licensing agreement to multiple device vendors and multiple media companies and multiple ecommerce companies. I do see that the market is really looking for an alternative at the moment and companies are ready to take actions on that.Also today the companyreiteratedits intention to deliver the Jolla Tablet it crowdfunded last year(but has yet to ship).It said it is working hard to get the first tablets shipped. The software (Sailfish OS)part of the work is in good shape but we have been slowed down by supply issues ofcertain hardware components. We expect to solve this issue very soon, notedSaarnio,in a statement.