When explaining some of the nuances of virtual reality to friends and family, they want to hear about the games or the apps. Yes, full experiences, or titles are an exciting part about any platforms growth. Unfortunately, there arent that many full titles that are going to get people excited yet. Yes, there are some great games adapted for the Gear VR, there are amazing immersive and visually stunning games on HTCs Vive and the Oculus, but its the simple moments that are getting people excited, Ive found.One such moment is the Golden State Warriors playing around with 360 degree immersive content. Again. Its a small step, but as per usual, the Silicon Valley-area team is doing cool stuff with technology before any other professional team.Check out this videonot a full immersive experience, just a moment, involving Steph Curry getting prepped for a game this week:Facebooks adoption of 360 degree video is doing wonders for getting people stoked about the possibilities in virtual reality. Its moments like these that will get people interested and more importantly, coming back for more. Once you see the pre-game prep like this, why would you want to watch it any other way?If youre a diehard fan, you probably wouldnt.The video made you feel as if you were there along with the other photographers capturing Stephs unique pre-game paces. Sure, you cant do anything with the video other than watch and scroll around to different vantage pointsbut imagine a fully immersive experience from the NBA where you could choose any number of cameras to watch a game from, including from the bench. I mean, thats a vantage point that Id pay money to watch.Its coming, and the little moments along the way that get us there will make sure that theres a sizable audience to appreciate it. Make people want more, not overwhelm them with tons of optionsespecially the ones not ready for prime time.So far, so good.Virtual reality will produce its own Super Mario or Fallout and by the time it does, the eyeballs will be ready to adopt titles and potential franchises.Until then, lets enjoy the moments and not rush it.