Mobile lens startup Moment has spent the last year trying to help smartphone users take beautiful photos. It got started with a couple of interchangeable lenses that could be mounted onto iPhone and Android phones.Now the company is looking to create a more complete system for mobile photographers who capture images with their phones. That includes the release of a new Moment case for iPhone photographers, as well as a mobile app to give them more control over the photos theyre taking.The Moment case, which is being launched as part of a Kickstarter campaign today, was designed to help its users take better pictures faster. It starts by providing a more secure interface for Moment lens owners to mount the glass to their phones, and can even detect when lenses have been attached.The case gives the phone a more camera-like shape and feel, as well as a shutter button with both half-press and full-press features. Just like a camera, you can half-press the button to lock focus, or you can hold it down to take photos in burst mode. The Moment case also has a double loop hole to allow users to use a traditional camera strap to it and carry their phones around their wrists or necks.Along with the case, Moment has also released a mobile app to give photographers more control while capturing photos. It has on-screen touch features that enable users to control the focus and to fine-tune lighting. That helps users to take better photos but without the need to do editing through other apps.A year after Moment crowdfunded its wide-angle and telephoto lenses, the company is raising money again from backers on the Internet. On Indiegogo, the company is seeking $100,000 from customers who want to have the new iPhone case. Its asking $49 for those who would like to pre-order the case, $124 for the case and one of its lenses (which usually sell for $99 each), or $199 for the case and both of its lenses.And just like last year, users shouldnt have to wait long for the product to get to them  Moment expects to ship the new case to backers in June.