As a creative, youre most likely to get hired for a job off the back of your portfolio of past clients and work. Aimed squarely at this market, Moo  the company better known for their business cards launched Monogram, a freeapp that aims to help make portfolios more portable.Using the app, you can create a series of themed portfolios showing off what you do: screenshots of websites, photos, links to websites and a lot more. Monogram is very easy to use, andis one of the more elegant ad hoc presentation apps Ive seen.Creating a presentation is easy and straightforward. In addition to images, you can add text, social profiles, links to websites and more. In the process, you are building a rich portfolio/presentation that looks remarkably slick. It can be shared by e-mail, as well, creating an interactive presentation for your potential customers to peruse at their leisure.While we love print, weve been keen to develop a digital product for our customers, says Richard Moross, Moos CEO. Monogram seeks to build on the 300-year-old ceremony  the time you first meet someone. It seeks to bridge the divide between the humble business card and a more involved website.If you have all the images you need on thecamera roll on your phone, the app works offline, which is handy for building presentations or pitching to new clients whenyoure on the plane or if you do most of your business in a Faraday cage.The Monogram app follows in the companys recent tradition of attempting to zapsome life into the frankly slightly retro world of business cards. Last year, Moo launched Business Cards+, which are cards embedded with an NFC chip for sharing contact information wirelessly.With Apples persistent insistence to refuse supporting NFC, however, the cards never really got off the ground, and Ive yet to see one in the wild.The new app also has a somewhat significant oversight: The app doesnt enable uploading of video content, which means thatfilmmakers and mime artists will have to go elsewhere for an app to show off their trade. There might be hope, though: Chad Jennings, Moos VP of Product and Design, hints that video and GIFsupport couldbe coming in the future.The app is available for iOS now, and Moo says it is looking at an Android version in the future.