As expected(and amply leaked), Samsung has today whipped back the curtain on a pair of newflagship smartphones, announcing two new phablets: the Galaxy Note 5 (pictured above) and the Galaxy S6 Edge+ at press events in New York and London.The focus for Samsung here is bigger handsetsthat can do more with multimedia content, letting the user makeuse of additionalscreen real-estate for video editing or live streaming, or multitasking with multiple content windows on screen.The Korean giant doesnt normally drop flagship smartphones in August but is presumably hoping to hog thelimelight by announcing new kit in what is typically a fallow monthfor tech news  before the hype cycle spins up again comeSeptember, when Apple typically unboxesnewiPhones. (In the event, Chinese mobile maker Xiaomi stole a march on Samsungs phablet new by announcing its own pairofnewbies earlier today.)Heres a quick rundown of the new additions to Samsungs handsetGalaxy, which will be landing in some 7,000 retail stores in the U.S. for preview starting from tomorrow (but on sale globally later this month):Galaxy Note 5The Galaxy Note 5 is the sequelto the 5.7-inch display Note 4, which launched back in September 2014. The display remains the same size (and same quad-HD res), but RAM has been beefed up to 4GB.The design has also been tweaked to be thinner and slimmer, with a narrower bezel and curved back. The rear camera is still 16MP, but theres now 5MP on the front. Both are f1.9.The S-Pen stylus has also had an update with anall new design, and, says Samsung, improved writing capabilities(albeit it said that at the last Note update), includingthe ability to jot down info even when the screen is off.Users can also now annotate PDF files using the S-Pen, and capture a whole website from top to bottomusing a Scroll Capture feature. And the pen is easier to extract from its kennelinside the Note, thanks to a one click extraction mechanism.Available colorways for the Note 5 are Black Sapphire and White Pearl. There are 32GB and 64GB variants (but no microSD card slot  a factor thats going to continue to grate on long-time Samsung fans).Galaxy S6 Edge+The Galaxy S6 Edge+ updates one of two newflagshipsSamsung unboxed back in March at the Mobile World Congress trade show  namely theS6 Edge.The flagship feature of that handsetwasa screen with curved edges. Those curves spill over now to theS6 Edge+ but the overall size of the screen has also been increased to phablet size  so its been bumped up from 5.1 inches to 5.7 inches. As with the S6 Edge, the curved edges can be usedas a shortcut from any screen to accesstop contacts and apps, by swiping along the edge. The S6 Edge already had the contact shortcuts, but this time youll be able to pin your favorite apps as well.As with the Note 5, RAM has also been increasedto 4GB. Andtherear camera is 16MP, with a 5MP lens on the front.Available colorways for the S6 Edge+ are Black Sapphire and Gold Platinum (below). And there are also 32GB and 64GB variants (but again no microSD card slot).Multimedia focusBoth devices sport improvedvideo stabilization when shooting from the front or rear camera, according toSamsung. Theres also a new video collage mode that allows users to shoot and edit short videos more easily, adding various frames and effects. Anda 4K Video filming feature to record content for 4K TVs.A full HD Live Broadcast option lets usersinstantly stream video straight from the phone to any individual, group of contacts, or through YouTube Live  a la live streaming apps like Meerkat and Periscope.While Samsung touts other camera and audio improvements such as a quick launch feature (by double clicking the home button from any screen to jump into the camera), and support for UHQA for richer audio quality.Both handsets also supportSamsung Pay  the companysforthcoming NFC and magnetic secure transmission mobile payment tech which its lining up as an Apple Pay rival.Theres alsoembedded wireless chargingon both,but wireless charger pads arent included  so thats an additional accessory youd have to have or buy yourself.