Farewell Firefox OS smartphones.Mozilla today announced an end to its smartphone experiment, and said thatit would stop developing and selling Firefox OS smartphones. It will continue to experiment on how it might work on other connected devices and Internet of Things networks.The announcement was made earlier today at Mozillas developer event in Orlando, Mozlando, and several people were tweeting the basics of the news. Now Mozilla has provided us with a full statement fromAri Jaaksi, Mozillas SVP of Connected Devices.We are proud of the benefits Firefox OS added to the Web platform and will continue to experiment with the user experience across connected devices. We will build everything we do as a genuine open source project, focused on user experience first and build tools to enable the ecosystem to grow.Firefox OS proved the flexibility of the Web, scaling from low-end smartphones all the way up to HD TVs. However, we werent able to offer the best user experience possible and so we will stop offering Firefox OS smartphones through carrier channels.Well share more on our work and new experiments across connected devices soon.Firefox OS was first unveiled in 2013, with the aim of targeting the developing world and late adopters with low-cost handsets.To differentiate from Android and iOS, Mozilla and its carrier partners focused on a web-first platform, with no native and only web apps. Sales, however, were always poorand the devices themselves failed to ignite a lot of consumer interest, and a number of OEMs cornered the market with a flood of cheap handsets. In a business that depends on economies of scale, it was a failure.Mozilla has been on a streamlining track lately. Last week it announced that it would be looking for alternative homes for its Thunderbird email and chat client. The aim is for the company to focus more on its strongest and core products and reputation. Today the company also unveiled a new ad blocker, playing on its existing approach to privacy and stance on user tracking and cookies.More to come.