Theres positivenews for customers ofMt. Gox, the once industry-leading bitcoin exchange that blew up in spectacular fashion last year, after its creditors began acceptingbankruptcy claims.A notice issued todayinstructs customers to log-in into their Mt. Gox account atclaims.mtgox.com, from where they can maketheir attempt at reclamation. (There is also an offline optionfor those who prefer mountains of paperwork.)Another avenueis to lodge a claim via Kraken, the KoreaUS-based bitcoin exchange that was last year selected by Mt. Goxs creditors for reimbursements. Kraken is sweetening the deal a little too by offering up to $1 million offree trades for any Mt. Gox customers who go viaits service.Either way, those filing will need to sign up to, or already have, a Kraken account since any returned coins will be deposited via theservice. On that note, returns will be calculated at a rate of$483 perBTC with an additional 6 percent per annum.Thats higher than the current bitcoin price, but Mt. Gox customers should expect to see a partial return on their holdings, as users on this Reddit threadlamented.If you were a Mt. Gox customer with bitcoin inside the service, you have until May 29 to file your claim. The companys creditors plan to make a decision on returns bySeptember 9this year.Mt. Gox closed off its website and halted transactions in February 2014 after losing (at least) 850,000 bitcoins and generating anoutstanding debt of about $63.6 million.The Tokyo-based company filed for bankruptcy at the end of February, buta recent report suggestedthat most of its coins were stolen between 2011 and 2013. There have been plenty of accounts of how the team frantically tried to revive its pool of coins including the apparent use of a trading bot  but, regardless of the reasons,the companys collapsemarked a line in the sand.These days bitcoin has matured. Timesof maverick businesses like Mt. Gox appear to be over. Todays topexchanges like Coinbase and BitPay arebacked by venture capital firms and reputed institutional investors as the industry moves from being strange, new technologyto a payment systemthat could have mainstream appeal and legitimacy.