Leading Facebook ad company Nanigans is announcing that it has raised $24 million in Series B funding.In this case,itsis taking money from a big Asian investor  Chinese Internet company Cheetah Mobile. (Cheetah led the round, while Avalon Ventures and Wellington Management Company also participated.) Naturally, one of the goals is to accelerate Nanigans growth in that region.Nanigans co-founder and CEO Ric Calvillo noted that the company already has an Asia-Pacific office in Singapore thats doing pretty well. He also suggested that theres still a particularly large opportunity in China  even though Facebook is still blocked by Chinas great firewall, Calvillo said Chinese businesses are advertising on the social network to reach audiences outside China.Until now, Nanigans had raised just under $9 million in funding  not much, when you consider that it currently manages $500 million in annualized ad spend, and has offices in New York, San Francisco, London, and Sydney, plus its headquarters in Boston and the aforementioned Singapore team. Calvillo said the company has been essentially bootstrapped thus far, covering its costs by building a profitable services business around its ad-buyingtechnology.Less than a year ago, however, the company began to switch from the defaultad business plan (offering additional services and charging a commission on ad spend) to a software-as-a-service model. At this point, Calvillo said about 70 percent of Nanigans customers have moved to an annual subscription, and by the end of June, it should be up to 100 percent.Why the shift? Well, Calvillo described the SaaS model, particularly one with a yearlong commitment, as a litmus test that determines whether customers are really buying the technology or just viewing you as a glorified agency. If you can convince customers to make the switch, then youve got more reliable revenue, and youre valued more highly by investors  in fact, Calvillo said the transition was what allowed us to do the round.And yes, while discussing the move, Calvillo repeatedly referred to Wall Street, so before I had to ask, he went ahead and addressed the IPO question: If were going to do a round of funding and possibly a public offering two or three years from now, we need a strategy that works for a public company  and that has to be a SaaS model.Nanigans will also be expanding its tools beyond Facebook, a process that began last fall when the companyadded support for Twitter-owned MoPub. Calvillo said Nanigans clients have askedtouse the companys ad optimization and analytics technology withother types of advertising, both in display and social media.Still, he pointed to a challenge in moving to new ad channels  ad-buying is often siloed between different teams within each company. So even if theres an advantage in having one product to manage all of yourdigital ad spend, it also has to be best of breed in each category. He also emphasized that as Nanigans expands, its number one priority will continueto be improvingthe Facebook product and keeping up with shifts in Facebooks ad platform.Thats why its taken us so long to be multi-channel  they have a very high bar, Calvillo said.