Today, NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory released a new 360-degree video, giving you a virtual tour of the Martian surface. The video was created by stitching together images taken by the Mars Curiosity Rover on December 18th, 2015.The scene takes place at Namib Dunewitha view of Mount Sharp on the horizon. Curiositys Mast Camera took the images on the 1,197th sol (a Martian day) of its mission. A Martian day is about 40 minutes longer than an Earth day.Open up the video in your phones YouTube app to view it best. By moving around your smartphone, you can get a high quality 360-degree look at Curiosity and its Martian surroundings.The first version of this video was released on Facebook on January 30th, but because of the way the images were stitched together, the horizon was warped and the resultant 360-degree panoramic imagewas disorienting. Todays 360-degree imagewas a huge improvement on the first and gives a cleaner virtual experience.This isnt the first time a 360-degree image has been created from Curiositys photographs. Back in 2012, NASA released a similar panoramic look from a Curiosity site. But now that Facebook and YouTube allow users to upload 360-degree videos, the public has an interactive way to seethe red planet.Curiosity selfie / Image courtesy of NASANASAs also famously used another one of Curiositys cameras to create a rover selfie. The scene above was generatedby combining 57 different images taken from Curiositys Mars Hand Lens Imager, located on its robotic arm, on January 19th, 2016.In total, the Curiosity rover has 17 cameras, which are used for navigation, hazard avoidance and scientific analysis.Curiositys 17 cameras / Image courtesy of NASACuriosity, NASAs largest Mars rover,landed on Mars with the help of a sky-crane on August 6th, 2012. The rover was designed to assess whether Mars has ever had an environmentcapable of supporting life.Last spring, Curiosity discovered a unique rock formation in an area known as Garden City which suggests the existence of two distinctive wet periods in Mars history. Understanding the role of liquid water, a key ingredient for life as we know it, will help scientists determine if Mars currently supports, or has ever supported, life.The nuclear powered rover also discovered rocks with very high amounts of silica in them. High-silica compositions are intriguing because theyre thought to be created from considerable water activity. Perhaps even more interesting, high silica deposits on Earth are often associated with places that support microbial life.Curiositys science team is currently working on a couple different hypotheses to explain the rovers discoveries and unravel the mystery of Mars past. Until then, the public can get a 360-degree look at the redplanet weve yet to fully understand.