
Carl Herberger is vice president of security solutions at Radware. As the most recent security breaches have taught us around the world, losing ones privacy also means losing one of humanitys unique attributes  its secrets. The hack at Ashley Madison taught us that no stored data is secure, no matter how much we think it is orif a service, by its very nature, implies its providing the highestcaliberofsecurity and discretion.The spill of this data has led to, among other things,massive lawsuits,andeparting CEOand evensuicide. As time will no doubt show us  weve lost our humanity.Somehow we missed privacy from the initial design of the Constitution and amendments thereafter. This right to privacy was not endowed to us by our Founding Fathers nor does itmake up the conscience of our jurisprudence system of government today.Legally, privacy is, at best, a regulation or a state-level law focused around data protection. The United States is not alone in having few overarching privacy laws. Many people in the world do not have a legal right to privacy. Even in the best of scenarios, countries only have laws focused around some notional data element  like a right to healthcare or financial privacy.Many questions pervade the notion of privacy, on which the conversation has been somewhat confiscated by information security professionals and ascribed to the notion of data privacy as if this is the ultimate arbiter of the question. Isnt privacy more than data? Questions like the following really providea powerful sense of the problem:As you can see, the topic is immensely powerful and in no way trite. The real question is, why isnt there a real national dialogue around the topic? Yes, there is a lot of chatter, but most of the conversation seems vapid. Many of the pundits I see and read seem to be discussing the notion of net neutrality or cybersecurity legislation that address data protections, both of which appear to have, at their core, the goal of appointing bureaucrats and assigning budget authorities.However, the issue islarger than that. The real question of the current various forms of cybersecurity legislation should reach into the heart of the matter and focus onwhether privacy is a fundamental human right.An answer to this question will forever settle the debate on how to proceed with information security regulations and how to react to breaches in our privacy.Instead, we are left with a quilt of ad hoc, incoherent rules, regulations and micro-lawsthat define what we should or should not do with privacy.In the U.S., privacy legislation started in the state of California, moved briskly across the country and has largely settled into its current landscape. The problem with this approach, although admirable in the specifics, is that ones privacy is not a geographic ordata-driven matter. Ones privacy is not relative to ones domicile, and this truth leaves most of us wanting for the notionthat legislation covers our privacy, regardless of the type of data (e.g., only healthcare or financial information but all private information, etc.).As a result, we are left with a threat environment that is exploiting the blind spots between the laws and lack of coverage.Generally, Im not a big believer that laws or regulations are very helpful for the tactics and operations of a security professional. Mygeneral feeling is that laws only add to an overburdened staff and generally only increase budgets, which are often misappropriated toward administrative attestation instead of real security.However, in the case of privacy, there are three real consequences of not having a national privacy law, which will not change until one is passed:Data Breaches Grow Exponentially.The threat landscape is changing with great velocity. Without a law governing the human aspect of privacy, people will continue to steal, borrow and monetize this valuable asset until it no longer holds meaning.Delay of national privacy legislation is directly related to financial loss and national economic competitiveness. Financial institutions will be the great bearers of these costs as consumers demand to have their institutions provide restitution for their losses.Your Humanity Will evaporate.With the advent of the Internet of Things (IoT), whereby nearly every consumer device is measuring and monitoring nearly all human behavior (including implantable devices for healthcare), there will increasingly be opportunities to invade deeper and deeper into ones personal life and, perhaps one day, even into ones own thoughts and ambitions.This technology, although immeasurable on the opportunities for human developmental advancement, will, paradoxically further erode the notion of what it isto be human itself. You will become like a machine, predictable and forecastable in every way  from your health to your passion,your purchasing and interest habits and hobbies. You will be addressable in more ways than ever.Power To The People Is Not Easily Granted. There is a lot of money and interest to be gained by organizations and governments in having the power to pervade ones privacy. The laws of control suggest that most people who are in charge of organizations and governments will not easily be interested in ceding control of the aphrodisiac, which is spying on those whom they can potentially manipulate.Is privacy a right? There is a lot to be learned from the debate. However, most of the debate is, in my opinion, an intellectually dishonest conversation. The real debate rests on the central question of whether or not privacy is a human right and, if so, what we must do to protect it and cherish it.In the meantime, security professionals and businesses who are entrusted with data which have become obvious to protect will continue to bear the cost and operational responsibility to try to husband these protections as best they can in face of an insurmountable challenge.If you care about this subject, I encourage you to take up the struggle and start calling for energy around a national law in pursuit of a constitutional amendment to settle once and for all the question of whether or not privacy is a right.