On a day the NASDAQ was down about 0.2 percent, Netflix hit a new all-time high during intra-day trading, hitting $122.78 and eventually closing at $121.00per share, up 7.5percent on the day.The video streaming service has seen its shares rise 143percent so far in 2015. A stock split, Icahn cashing out, and and encouraging earnings reports have spurredinvestors attentionin the company, as has its recently announced entry into Asian markets.Speaking of Icahn, the activist investor has missed out on hundreds of million of dollarsin profit by selling early. The day he announced that he had liquidated the remainder of his Netflix holding, the stock was trading at about $96 dollars, adjusted for the recent 7-1 split. Today the stock closed at $121, representing a missed return of an additional 26 percent.While few doubt that Netflix has a strong future ahead of it, its worth taking our time to examine the companys strengths, recent past performance, and expected financial takings. Are investors over their skis, paying too much for future growth today? Or, perhaps, is Netflixs coming few years strong enough to cover for its dramatically accelerating valuation?The day started with news that Netflix has finally confirmed a launch date for its long-awaited expansion into Asia. The company launched a Netflix Japan Twitter account, as well as confirmed a September 2nd launch date, according to VentureBeat.
 
 # pic.twitter.com/7LqIMZhioq Netflix Japan (@NetflixJP) August 3, 2015While the company announced they would be launching in Japan almost 6 months ago, it was a hottopic in the companys Q2 earnings call a few weeks ago.Reed Hastings, CEO of Netflix, saidthat the company will launch with localized content and an aggressive pricing strategy, in part to avoid the failure that Hulu encountered during its initial Japan launch. Hastings also noted that the company has support from all the major Japanese consumer electronics brands, and Sony, Panasonic, and Toshiba will all be integrating Netflix buttons into their TVs sold in Japan.The news of an official Japanlaunch date may also be reinvigorating investors excitement about upcoming launches in southern Europe, Spain, and Italy, all of which will come in Q4.Additionally, a portion of todays rally may be attributed to the fact that investment firm Guggenheim Securities just initiated coverage on Netflix, and rated it a buy with a $160 price target. This $160 target is a 33percent increase over what the stock closed at today.Part of Netflixs long-term rally may be attributed to the low churn rate of subscribers, as well as the fact the most users find Netflixs current price of $8.99/month for new customers to be very inelastic.A May 2015 survey by RBC Capital Markets of 500 respondents showed that 73 percent of users were not at all likely to cancel their subscriptions in the next three months, and only 6 percent were either extremely likely or very likely to do so.In terms of inelasticity, the same survey showed that only nine percent of users were extremely likely or very likely to cancel their subscription once the $1 price increase goes into effect. This number is down three percent from a year prior, and will most likely continue to decrease as strong, original content will keep subscribers attached to the platform.On a less technical note, as long as Netflixs subscription price continues to be dramatically below the price of a cable subscription ($64/month, according to the FCC), its reasonable to assume that as long as thecompany continues to provide quality programming, there is a lot of room for future pricing increases.A few statistics: Netflixs revenue in the first half of 2015 grew to $3.2 billion from $2.6 billion in the year-ago half year. Thats an increase of 23 percent. In the same comparative half year period, Netflix saw its operating income fall from $227.2 million, to $172.3 million. Thats down around 24 percent.On a strict-profit basis, Netflixs net income fell from $124.1 million during the first-half of 2014, to a far-slimmer $50.0 million in its most recent six months, down around 60 percent. Summing, Netflix has paid for seemingly tepid revenue growth with steep declines in its profits. If you were to only look at Netflixs traditional corporate metrics, however, you might miss part of the picture.(The joke about Netflixs forward price-earnings ratio topping the 400 mark you can make yourself.)However, raw financial performance is only part of the growth picture that investors appear to use to value Netflix  thats to say, the pace by which Netflix accretes new subscribers on a net basis is perhaps a more important way to measure the firms future potential incomes.Before you yell GAAP and let slip the SaaS dogs of war, wait. Given our previous discussion of price inelasticity on the consumer side, which implies potential positive dollar churn on a per-account basis, Netflixs low account churn becomes a long-term profit engine. So, in terms of growth, cutting profits now to build a larger subscriber base may not only be a fair trade, but one that could be intensely lucrative in the long term.If that last comment seems to echo back to Box, and its massive losses in the face of growing a recurring revenue base, you might be slightly confused as to how Netflix is investing in content, and expansion, while still making money.A small hint: Netflixs DVD business brought the firm a self-declared contribution profit of $77.9 million in the second quarter. Thats more, youll note, than the firms first-half-year net income by a wide margin. So, in an interesting way, Netflix has a free source of profits that allow it to grow its recurring digital incomes, effectively subsidizing the costs thereof.That makes future cash flows from current subscriber growth less expensive than they might seem. And, how is that same subscriber growth doing, both at home and abroad, in its last quarter? Heres the company:We added a Q2 record 3.3 million new streaming members, compared to 1.7 million in the previous year quarter. [] We gained 0.9 million members in the US and added 2.4 million members internationally in Q2. [] We are forecasting Q3 US net adds of 1.15 million, slightly higher than the year ago period. [] We project Q3 international net adds of 2.4 million.To collate that, not only is Netflix growing its subscriber base at a faster pace than it did in the year-ago quarter, but Netflix expects its current quarter to be even stronger.And if you are betting that you can charge those same subscribers more over time, and they just wont leave, then your CAC is House of Cards and your LTV is fucking gold.Disclosure:One of the authors owns a small amount of shares in Netflix by way of a family trust.