As streaming video competition continues to growbetween Netflix, Amazon, Google, Facebook and others, one of the leaders of the pack is planning to invest big incontent acquisitions and investments to stay up front. Netflix today said it plans to offer $1 billion$1.5 billion in senior notes and plans to use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, whichmay include content acquisitions, capital expenditures, investments, working capital and potential acquisitions and strategic transactions.The company originallysaid it wouldraise $1 billion but then later increased the offering to $1.5 billion, with a $700 million tranche of 5.5% senior notes due 2022 and $800 million of 5.875% senior notes due 2025, with the sale expected to close on February 5.Markets are not entirely thrilled with the move. Netflixs stock is tradingdown slightly, and S&P has downgraded the companys debt rating to B+ from BB-. We view Netflixs business risk profile as fair, reflecting the companys leading position in the increasingly competitive and rapidly evolving online video service and its large subscriber base, its analysts write. However, Netflix remains dependent on movie and TV studios for content, and we expect the company to increase its investments in original programming for which success is unpredictable. It also pointed to risks in the companys international strategy.This should not come as a surprise. On January 20, at the same time that it publishedearnings,CEO Reed Hastings and CFO David Wells published a note to shareholdersthat laid out plans to continue to invest in original content:Over the next few years we expect to continue financing our original content expansion with long-term debt, they wrote. As long as the maturities are spread out, and the interest cost is built into our content budgets, we think long-term debt is the best way for Netflix to finance the production of content.What is interesting to consider also is howNetflix might use some of the proceeds for international and marketexpansion. Currently the company is live in 50 countries with plans to launch in Australia and New Zealand in late Q1, and has an ambition to expand to 200 in the next two years.There are numerous local competitors and a thirst for movies and TV shows from around the world. Later in the year, well launch additional major countries, in keeping with our global strategy, the pair wrote in the letter. Our international expansion strategy over the last few years has been to expand as fast as we can while staying profitable on a global basis. Progress has been so strong that we now believe we can complete our global expansion over the next two years, while staying profitable, which is earlier than we expected. We then intend to generate material global profits from 2017 onwards.The company says that in the key market ofChina, we are still exploring options  all of them modest. Well learn a great deal if we can successfully operate a small service in China centered on our original and other globally-licensed content. That is our preference, for the next few years, if we are able to acquire the necessary permissions.S&P notes that Netflix already has $9.5 billion streaming content commitment as of December 31, 2014, up from $7.3 billion a year earlier.We expect that streaming content commitments will continue to increase and that Netflixs pursuit of more original programming with global rights will increase its cash flow deficits, it concludes.Netflix first started producing original programming in 2012.But,ason-demand streaming players build up catalogues of content from the same film and TV studios  making it harder to differentiate one servicefrom another  its been picking up the pace with hits like House of Cards and Orange Is the New Black. Netflix has been nominated for a number of Emmy and other awards forbut has had mixed results when it has cometo winning.Last month, Amazon scored a coup when it announced that Woody Allen would be making his first foray into TV series with a production for Amazons Prime Instant Video.Updated with Netflixs increased figures.