Lew Cirne, founder and CEO of the seven-year-old software analytics company New Relic, has a lot for which to be thankful. Near the very top of his list? The fact that New Relic went publica year ago, after raising roughly $214 million from investors. (Its market cap is currently$1.78 billion.)We talked earlier today about whats keeping so many other companies from doing the same. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: Youre a big believer in going public. At the same time, you sold your first company, Wily Technology, for $375 millionin 2006 to CA Technologies. LC: A big part of why Wily didnt have the characteristics to endure as a public company was that we were able to land big deals, but there was a high degree of variability to it.TC: Thats not true at New Relic? LC: The founding idea of New Relic was about building something that could endure as a public company, that would do well in hot and coldmarkets. We wanted to be geared toward making good decisions even under the obligation of reporting financials every 90 days. So I wanted a 100-percent subscription business. I was focused on high gross margins; ours are 80 percent. We also focused on establishing a broad customer base of both small and big customers, so no one customer would have disproportionate sway [over our financial health].Most traditional enterprise companies, the way they do financials depends on huge deals that almost always close in last five days of quarter, and theres a lot of risk in them, so in order to succeed in a predictable way, they wind up prioritizing the big deal over product integrityandstrategic direction.TC: IsNew Relic profitable or has it ever been? LC: Were not yet profitable, but have a very good handle on our growth versus profitability. You can invest more for growth or dial back for profitability, and we feel like weve always had good control over that dial.TC: Presumably, your public shareholders understand that story. LC: The shareholders I talk with understand that were a growth company. For example, the average New Relic customer spends 38 percent more than the average customer spent a year ago because weve invested in new products that theyre buying more of.Shareholders obviously ask how we think about growth versus profitability, but we dont see pushback [because] we think it makes more sense to invest in new growth than to slow down and be a more profitable, smaller company.TC: How much of your time is spent with shareholders? An oft-cited excuse for remaining private is that theyre a huge distraction. LC: Thats ironic to me. I think its much more distracting to be a unicorn today, especially for employees who may have expectations that arent based in reality when you factor in liquidation preferences and ratchets and valuation resets. Im very thankful we dont have that issue.As far as the time commitment involved, I overestimated how much [being a public company CEO] would change my day-to-day job. I had a meeting with investors this morning, but [our business] is a story I love to tell, and its always founders and CEOs job to tell their story to a broad number of constituents, so Im doing a lot of the same work. Now, the audience is just a little different at times.TC: Its been suggested to me that its harder for employees of public companies to cash out during selling windows because theres more transparency in newer organizations, so awider pool of people is exposed to material information. Do you buy that argument? LC: That hasnt been an issue at all. Were careful that people with inside information trade in very strict accordance with the law, but thats not affecting peoples ability to address their liquidity needs. I can understand why someone with a portfolio of unicorns would say that, though.TC: What of the argument that you cant innovate as much as a public company? Have you been held back from doing anything you might have as a private company? LC: We havent. You always have to be thoughtful about how you invest your capital, but maybe because Im a product-oriented founder, investors believe that well be effective in building new things, as weve demonstrated the ability to do before.TC: Before you went public, you raised $100 million from Blackrock and Passport Capital. Can you talk about the investment terms to which you agreed and whether, looking back now, youd agree to them again? LC: Our mindset has been to never take anything but the most vanilla, straightforward, management-friendly terms with one, single, standard liquidation preference, meaning that investors would get their money back [but not multiple times their money back]. We turned down higher valuations that came with stronger terms because we never believed that made sense. Companies that have taken that risk, I dont know if theyd do it differently now.Imjust thankful were not in that unicorn bucket.