Editors note:Ben Schippers is the co-founder ofHappyFunCorpwhere he spends his days building software for startups and fortune companies.The tendency for entrepreneurs is to build big products. But theproblemwith big, feature-rich products is that they take substantial time andmoney.People talk about this topic frequently, especially in the technology sector. What Im laying out here, however, is slightly different. Im discussing howbootstrappinghas evolved. Howbootstrappinghas become more of aproductproblemand anopportunity. If entrepreneurs can learn to release smaller products early and often, then the conversation about having to raise venture capital early wildly shifts and enables friends and family rounds to be much more impactful  an idea that is beneficial for all parties.As bandwidth continues to become cheaper and technology more accessible, weve seen a huge shift in how technology is being built, deployed and consumed. Even though the technology landscape has changed, entrepreneurs are still very much set in a dated conversation surroundingbootstrapping.The conversation has been, When do I raise institutionalmoney, should I raisemoney, whats my company worth and how muchmoneyam I going to need to build this business? This style of thinking simply doesnt complement the newer style of development where you can be fast and nimble without large sums of cash.You dont need oceans of capital to start and build 95 percent of the technology thats being consumed today. You need a strongproductteam that understandsproductfocus as well as the importance of moving fast. The boostrapping conversation should be focused around time-to-market and features,notraisingmoneyormoneyin general, especially during the early days. Entrepreneurs must think about releasing early and often and incorporating user feedback  creating a smaller, and more focused feature set that addresses a specificproblem.The beauty of focused products is that they require less time and therefore lessmoneyto build. How many huge, feature-rich products fail? About as many as smaller ones. The difference between big, feature-rich products and small ones is that the small ones dont require nearly as much time and capital, and you can get them to market in a few weeks/months and regularly iterate.Bootstrappinghas become much more of aproductopportunitythan a capitalization concern. In the world of technology startups, the biggestenemy is time. Time is the ultimate equalizer and the only commodity worth fighting for  you can always make moremoney.Top 10 list for getting started:Tools for maximizing time to market includeParse,Git,Seed,InVision, Omnigraffle, Balsamic,Heroku,Slack,Twitter Bootstrap,Google Analytics,Rails, WordPress, Django,Asana, Jira and Basecamp.As more and more people chase the startup dream,bootstrappinghas very much taken on anewlife. The businesses that will succeed are those that will evolve to live in the cross section between releasing early and often and incorporating user feedback (see Instagram) as opposed to those that chase venture, stay stealthy and try to build big(see Color).