Despite hardware upgrades to the cameras of its newiPhones, the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, announced todayincluding larger sensors that yield higher megapixel shots and support for 4K recording the entry-level versions of each modelstill offerwhat is anincreasingly parsimonious 16GBof storage.That compares unfavorably across the board withrival high end Android flagshipssuch as theSamsungs Galaxy S6, HTCs One M9andLGs G4which all come with 32GB of storage as the baseline. Android fans fire up your gloating comments!Arguably, as Android users will doubtless point out, an entry level flagship smartphone should really pack more than 16GB stock storage nowadays, especially given theres no Micro SD card slot on the hermetically sealed iPhones for users to expand storage capacity themselves. The only option for getting more storage is to offloadstuff tothe cloud. Oropt to shell out$100 more for the64GB iPhone (or $200 more for the 128GB model).Apples own iCloud cloud storage product offers iOS users 5GB of storage for free, to cover backups, photos, apps, documents, etc. After which you can pay Apple to get more spaceif you run out. Itcurrently offers20GB, 200GB, 500GB, or 1TB on iCloud, billed monthly. iCloudstorage pricingstarts a $1 per month for 20GB storage, rising to $20 per month for 1TB.iClouds storage pricing flags up theclear revenue-generating incentive for Apple to cap iOS device storage capacity and monetize as and when users fill their phones with content. But beyond just money-making, cloud storage can representa very effective lock-in mechanism  given it can require significanteffort for users to movetheir stuff to another storage repository if they do want to switch OSes. The psychological stickinessof interconnected services is of course why every tech company tries so hard to establishanecosystem.16GB isnot, admittedly, as parsimonious on the storage frontas the (now discontinued) iPhone 5C  which initially launched with 16GB as its base but which Apple then reworked down to 8GB to reduce the overall price-tag of the device.And an 8GB not-that-budget iPhone waspretty much the definition of false economy if you wanted to use a modern smartphone as freely as its intended. The new entry-level iPhone is now the iPhone 5s (so its back up to 16GB there, hopefully).Applekeeping the16GB variantof its flagship iPhonesaround is perhaps also aimed at appealing to enterprise buy-in-bulk customers  as a way to reduce the upfront cost to them of buying hundreds or more handsets in one fell swoop.That said, storage is cheap but storageon iOS devices is not. You can get annoyed about that, or you can recognizeit as a component of Apples hardware-based business model. You are paying over the odds for storage, but thats because Apple makes money from selling hardware rather than by monetizinguser data forad-targeting purposes, la ad behemoth Google.As the saying goes, you pays your money, and you takes your choice; foriPhone 6s and 6s Plus users that choice is either 16GB, 64GB or 128GB.