News In Shorts, the startup behind an India-focused mobile news app, has raised a $20 millionSeries B round from existing investor Tiger Global.The VC firm, which has backed a number of Indias top tech firms and this week led a $100 million raise formusicservice Saavn, led News In Shorts $4 million Series A in February. Now itsreturnedto the table with a considerably larger raise to help the startup scale its service and grow its userbase.News In Shorts, which publishes around 60 news bulletinsof 60 words or less per day,had 100,000 downloads for iOS and Android when we checked in with the company in February. That figure is now up to 1.3 million, and co-founderDeepit Purkayastha told us that engagement has increased 18X over the same period. He declined to provide raw stats, but back in February News In Shorts claimed40 percent of all registered users logged in each week, while daily users browsed an average of 50 stories eachday.Thoseincreases directly led to this new funding round from Tiger, Purkayastha explained. We believe that the service is quite good right now, but we can be the best if we can invest more into it.He addedthat this Series B capital will be used to develop the product  and in particular the Android app, since the Google-owned platformaccounts foraround 80 percent of mobile devices in India. The News In Shorts team is working on a numberof new additions, including a personalization engine that helps users quickly find content that matches their interests, and a feature toallow users to express and share opinions on news via the service.News is divided into facts and opinions,Purkayastha told TechCrunch in an interview. Weretrying to make users actively participate in the opinion process.Initially opinions will roll out to a select number of users, but the plan is to allow all News In Shorts users to share their voices. The funding will also go towards hiring more editors to increase the number of news briefs each day, putting the service into more languages and potentially focusing on audiences outside of India. The latter may take place before the end of the year,Purkayastha revealed.The service is still not making money, but there are plans to begin drawing revenue before the end of the year. Sponsored content is one element, while the founders are exploring possibilities based on a users location or topics of interest.Wewant to innovate on the format of ads itself, saidPurkayastha. Ours will bemuch more native to the experience of the app, they wont be traditional with pop-ups or banners that bother users.That introduction makes sense once News In Shorts is able to tailor personalized content to users, since that will bring some form of context to sponsored content. That said,it remains to be seen whether the paidcontent will detract from the purpose of the app  serving up news  despitePurkayasthas assertion that all content on the app willinformative to users, be it news, advertising or otherwise.News apps have been in the headlines lately following the demise of Circa, theU.S. startup that practically pioneered the genre. Circa was squarely focused on serving the U.S. market while News In Shorts is focused on India, so the latter isnt a directreplacement for the former.Purkayastha chose not to comment directly on Circas plight, instead he said that News In Shorts is wholly focused on keeping things brief for its users, while it has its eye on monetization.We keep in mind that users should be consuming news in seconds, it should take five minutes to be up to date and it shouldnt be overwhelming, he said.One major rival is Newshunt, the media startup that raised $40 million this year and is moving into digital content. Butwith Tiger Global  a backer of Uber rival Ola, e-commerce giant Flipkart, chat app Hike and many others in Indiain its corner, News In Shortsis an interesting one to watch in a land where e-commerce and other capital intensive verticals tend to claim most of the startup limelight.