Get ready for yet another wearable Neyya,aBluetooth ring designed for remote-controllingothermobile devices, is finally launching today after a lengthypost-crowdfundingdelay and a substantial rethink of the original concept.We first came across the startup back in January 2014 when it demoed a prototype version of its smart ring  then called Fin  at our hardware battlefield competition at CES. The initialidea was an optical wearable that couldturn the entire hand into a swipeable and tappableinterfacespace a concept that enabled the startup toraise more than $200,000 from over1,600 backers on Indiegogo,with alaunch pegged for September 2014.In the event, the gesture-basedfunctionalityhas been dialed right back to a swipeable touchpad on the ring itself. And the launch is happening now  more than a year later than planned. By no meansan uncommon tale on the hardware crowdfunding trail.Neyya, as Fin is now called, is priced at $139/129 in a titanium finish, or $179/159in gold plate. Its available to buy direct from the startups website  with U.S. and U.K. retailers including Bloomingdales and Selfridges stocking it from November 26. Indiegogo backers will also be (finally) getting their rings today.Why the long delay? President Sonia Hunt explains the team went through a partial pivot, redesign and rebranding after realizing their original concept was not going to panout as theyd hoped.After the crowdfunding and the prototype that we showed at battlefield in Vegas we did some more work and we realized a couple of things. We had brought on some specialists and even physicians, in terms of placement of the ring, and we did a lot of work on metrics of the hand, she tells TechCrunch.The ring is now recommended as such that youre wearing it on your index finger, with your thumb controlling the smart surface It makes sense from a tap and swipe perspective when youre using your thumb on that smart surface.When we raised that Indiegogo round as well we did realize that we needed to build custom battery, certain custom components, so we did raise funding [from Kalaari Capital, although its not disclosing how much as yet], she adds.What we realized then after launching [the crowdfunder] was that we really did need to spend the time to rethink certain parts of the technology. And we didnt want to put something out just to put it out.We dont need to keep putting out devices, just for the sake of putting them out. So weve always been very focused on core feature functionality in the workspace and on the play side  which is why this doesnt have a screen, which is why it doesnt have tonnes of feature functionality; its very focused. So we kind of, after battlefield, really had to regroup and think about was it the right product, and if not how are we going to make it better. To really be a product that people could use and it could enhance their life.As well as enabling remote control of  for instance  presentation software running on a laptop, so the Neyya user doesnt have to rely on a standard clicker, say, to move through the slides in their presentation, the smart ring also includes some notification features  joining the ranks of othernotify-me-selectively connectedjewelry offerings, such as Ringly and Vinaya.Albeit Neyya is mostly focusing on the remote-control use-case and is therefore primary targeting professional users who give lots of presentations, such as sales staff.Custom notifications area secondary use, with the companion Android or iOSapp used to set up to three priority callers for whose commsthe ring will buzz. Other secondary notification features include LEDs to setcustom reminder nudges such as to take medication or take some time out to relax.The primary use is all around the entrepreneur business professional. On the work the main use-case is for people who are out and about doing presentations. Turn on Bluetooth and you can remote control to move through your Keynote presentation, PowerPoint or Presi, Hunt adds.The rings design is intended to be unisex, while itcomes in three sizes: small, medium and large. Battery life is around three days if its used for three to four hours per day, according to Hunt. It charges via a base station, taking 90 minutes to be fully juiced.Also launching today: an Android SDK for Neyya, with iOS due shortly, toenable third parties to create custom functionality for the wearableto make it fit their own needs.Where does this go? Weve already had two fashion designers and a watch designer in Denmark approach us for a custom version of the ring, says Hunt. And also a company thats approached us in the enterprise software space in warehouse management  they see use of this where right now on the floor their employees are using two handheld devices to do work. So they love this idea of getting them out of holding anything but the ring, and the ring through a custom app talking to their system.