Kids TV network Nickelodeon will soontake itsshows directly to consumers with the launch of a subscription streaming service in March, according to comments made by Viacom CEOPhilippe Dauman on the companys earnings call on Thursday. The move to bring the childrens programming directly to consumers  outside of top streaming players like Netflix, Amazon or Hulu  follows similar efforts from CBS, which launched its own streaming service in late 2014. HBO is also poised to announce a standalone version of its HBO GO service in 2015.Like CBS and HBO GOs forthcoming services, Nickelodeon will not require households to subscribe to a cable or satellite TV subscription in order to use its new subscription product.In addition,the service will not be branded as Nickelodeon, the company said, butwill target young viewers with its own unique brand. The company didnt detail what content the service would include, or how much it will cost, but Dauman described the new service as being very attractive forparents and children.We want to satisfy the demand that is coming from the viewers out there, he said, noting also that the service would be aimed at consumers who use mobile devices. They want more programming. They have an insatiable appetite for great content. They want to view that content on every device that they own.Nickelodeon today already has a number of mobile apps on the app stores, including the Nick Jr. app, which currentlyincludes full episodes of favorite TV shows along with other interactive content. Many of the episodes can be streamed for free, without advertising, while others are made available by authenticating with thecredentials from a TV provider. Its unclear at this time how the new service will affect this current property or its content.That Nick Jr. app today is very popular, however, ranked No. 2 in a couple ofKids categories on the iTunes App Store, and No. 8 in the Education category, as well as No. 119 Overall.Viacom says it will reveal more details about the streaming service and its branding at its upfront meetings with advertisers next month.The company already has a streaming deal with Amazon for some of its Nickelodeon and Nick Jr. content. In June 2013, Viacom signed a multi-year agreement that brought top kids shows includinglike Dora the Explorer, SpongeBob SquarePants, Bubble Guppies, The Backyardigans, Fairly Odd Parents, Fresh Beat Band, Team Umizoomi, Blues Clues, iCarly, Victorious, and more to Amazons Prime Instant Video service.This quarter, Viacom also expanded and renewed its deal with Hulu, it said. Hulusays that a fewNickelodeon series were added in the expanded agreement, including Invader Zim, The Ren & Stimpy Show, Drake & Josh and Hey Arnold!.