Another bigchange for DataSift the UK startup that applies analytics tosocial network data firehoses to surface trends,whichhad a notable break up with Twitter earlier this year. Nick Halstead, who founded the company in 2010, is stepping down as CEO. Halsteadwill be replaced by Tim Barker, DataSifts chief product officer.In a blog post announcing the move, Halstead writesthat he made the decision after much deliberation that ended witha decision to go back to building early-stage tech companies.Specifically, he says he is now working on a startup called Cognitive Logic. As you can see if you go to that link, the startupis still in stealth mode. There is no information in Halsteads blog post or the site about what Cognitive Logic does. (Weve contacted Halstead to see if he will tell us more.)But as Halstead notes with some Britishunderstatement, It has been quite a year for DataSift, and so for some it may be unsurprising to see him step down.DataSift originallybuilt its reputation around being one of the only companies to have access to Twitters firehose  the full stream of Tweets and other metadata that are generated on the social network  and it works with a number of third parties to parse that data, or directly with large enterprises who take the data and chop and dice it directly. But thenit found itself in the firing line of Twitters decision to take more of its big data business into its own hands in April of this year. Nick Halstead was very much at the front of the ranks, penning apublic statementand speaking out against Twitters moves.At the same time, Halstead and DataSift weretaking matters into theirown hands, too. Perhaps suspecting that Twitterwould eventually lookto build a more direct business on its own data, DataSift diversifiedinto working with more social networks like Tumblr, andperhaps most notably Facebook.(And indeed, taking more control of its firehoseis exactly what Twitter didafterbuying Gnipin 2014. In April, itannounced it would not renew its firehose deal with DataSift. And then, just this week, Twitterunveiled a number of new initiatives involving the Gnip team, with Gnip Insights APIs and a new customer care product.)Ironically, given thatTwitter is now trying to play nice, or at least nicer, with developers once again, it will be interesting to see if there is any repair to be made in the DataSift rift. Whatever it is, Halstead wont be the one who has to broker it, although he will stay on for advice as chairman emeritus.DataSift has raised just under $78 million from investors that include Insight Venture Partners, Scale Venture Partners, and many more.