Nitrous.IO, a U.S.-Singapore startup that wants to ease the difficulties of coding by putting the process in the cloud, is making a big push to lure enterprise customers after launchinga Pro version of its service.The startup, which last year closed a$6.65 million round led by Bessemer Venture Partnersand previously raised a $1 million seed round, told TechCrunch in an interview that it actually built the new service using Nitrous.IO. Thats a whole newlevel of dogfooding.At itsmost basic level, Nitrous.IO is a cloud-based integrated development environment (IDE)  but its features go beyond just storing code. By keeping code and development in a single place, it makes processes like setting up an environment possible in 10 minutes  as opposed to hours or even a day  while it allows its 200,000 plus registered users to collaboratively work and share code just asyoud do with writing insidea Google Doc.With its Pro service, Nitrous.IO has extended its feature set further still to accommodate users in corporate companies and other organizations with specific requirements. To that end, Pro customers have root access, their IDEs can run on dedicated instances, theres support for Docker (with customization options), and customers can use their owncomputing infrastructures.Pricing is still to be finalized, but Nitrous.IO Pro willvary from $14.99 per month per seat to $64.99, with additional costs for further customization.In addition, Nitrous.IO CEO and co-founder AJ Soliminesaid there are plans to supporton-premise deployments over time. A limited beta rollout will startsoon, he confirmed.We really truly believe the majority of web development will be in the cloud in the next five years, Soliminesaid. The [original] Nitrous.IOwas a great first iteration, but we wanted to build something significantly better than your environment with Protaken it a step further, we want to eliminate the GitHub Readme.Nitrous.IO isnt declaring all-out war on GitHub, though. Far from it. The startup sees itself as complementary to GitHub, and there are plans for tighter integration with the online code repository. The company has also hired a VP of sales, Justin Fry, who said one objective istoconnect the dots inbig companies, where Nitrous.IO is oftenused by different teams without knowledge of each other.While it is targeting professionals with its new release, Nitrous.IO hasntabandoned more infrequent users, such as schools and casual developers. The basic service will remainfree for up to two hours of usage per day, but the team is looking into other cost options, too.Wewill have an educational pricing tier, Solimineexplained. We very much want to make this as affordable as possible for people learning, and were still experimenting with the most appropriate price for educational organizations.In the past, Nitrous.IO launched a packaged Chrome app, which turns even a $200 laptopinto a coding machine. While the primary focus  and no doubt money  is in the professional community, democratizing coding is still a keyobjective forSolimine and the startups 18-person team.On the business side of things, the company isnt thinking about an exit at this point  you could imagine the overlap with Github might make it an attractive target  nor are there plans to raise funds again soon.We havea lot of money left in the bank, and ideas we havent executed theresvery significant runway, Soliminesaid.We believe in thelonger-term play, headded. Right now,maybe less than10 percent of development is on remote environments, but we really believe this will be more than 50 percent by 2020.