Nokia is showing off the Android tablet thats part of its post-mobile phones strategy here at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Its only available in China right now but the company tells TechCrunch its looking at European markets to consider whether to bringthe N1 here too.Announced last November, the slender, almost 8-inchN1isa brand licensing collaboration between Nokia and Chinese electronics manufacturing firmFoxconn. Its not clear how the revenue share breaks down  and Nokia wouldnt specify when we asked  but its definitely doing less of the heavy lifting, with Foxconn making the hardware and also handling distribution, sales and marketing. Nokia contributes design work, itsbrand name andZ LauncherAndroid launcher, also revealedlast year.Nokias Tuukka Jrvenp, lead product manager of brand licensing, said theNokia N9 design team worked with Foxconn on the tablets design. The N9 was a refreshingly different, round-edged smartphonereleased to admiring looks back in 2011.The same design was subsequently pushed onto Nokias early Windows Phone devices. Nokia is now recycling some of that design language for a second timewith the N1.In the flesh the aluminum-clad N1 tablet has a premium look and feel. Indeed, the minimalist styling could pass for Apple hardware. This is perhaps not surprising, given that Apple also uses Foxconn as a manufacturing partner. Nokias Jrvenp says Nokiasaim isto createanon-intrusive design,which boils down tominimalhardware clutter. The tablets focal point is a bright and clear2,048 x 1,536 display.The same pared back principle extends to NokiasZ launcher software which sitson top of Android 5.0 (Lollipop). Jrvenp saysNokia has kept this feature-light to ensure users arent waiting too long for future Android updates.The two main Z launcherfeatures are an adaptive apps view thatchanges whichapp icons appear on your homescreen, based on your app usage; and a shortcut search thatlets you scribble out the first letter of whatever youre looking for on the homescreen and have results pulled in from across the tablet rather than having to wrangle with a full Qwerty keyboard or go hunting in the app drawer. In there, the apps are arranged alphabetically, adding to the softwares neat and tidy aura.Both device and UI feel intentionally lightweight  and refreshingly uncluttered. And theres no ugly looking widgets, or evidence of UI lag (during a brief hands on), as has been the case with Android tablets in years past.On the specs front, Nokia says the N1 offers a performance bump over the iOS small slate equivalent, the iPad Mini, with a quad-core chip, 2GB of RAM and 32GB of on board storage. The pricing is also aggressive, at around $250. But all that good stuff canstill only entice Chinese buyers at this point.It remains to be seen whether Nokias N1tablet ends up being a China-only experiment. The version on show here in Barcelona has Google Play pre-loaded but the actual product sold in Asia comes with a Chinese app store, as is common in the market.At this stage the N1 isevidently an experiment for Nokia as it refocuses its business after selling off its devices and services division to Microsoft last year. As part of the sale, Nokia agreed not to put its brand name on phones until 2016. But that hasnt stopped it christening tablet hardware.And with the ban on Nokia-branded phones set to lift in a year, Nokia may well be using the N1as a stepping stone to prepare the ground for launching a line of Android based smartphonesnext year, in collaboration with Foxconn.If it is planning to bring Nokia-brandedsmartphones back to the market in 2016, the well-crafted, quality feel of thisDesigned In Finland, made in China tabletcertainly augurs well. After the moribund Windows Phone years for Nokia, thisexperimental new hardware directionisfinally puttingaspring back in itsstep.