What do you financeif youre in thenetwork businessand needto encourage your customers to upgradefaster tothe next generation of cellular tech (aka 5G)? Why the Internet of Things of courseThe Nokia-funded VC firmNokia Growth Partnershas justannounced a new $350 million fund focused specifically on IoT  and sponsored exclusively by Nokia.Announcing the fund at a press briefing today, Nokia CEO Rajeev Suri said: We are launching a $350 million IoT investment fund through Nokia Growth Partners. Our goal is to help accelerate the broad IoT ecosystem, increase the demand for connectivity and generate returns from investments in compelling opportunities.The fund will invest in promising companies primarily around Connected Enterprise,Consumer Solutions, Connected Car and Digital Health, as well as enabling technologieswith a focus on capabilities in big data and analytics, NGP said in a statement.Earlier in his presentation Suri talked up the potential for 5G to accelerate not onlynetwork traffic but also Nokias network business.5G must happen fast because important use cases demand it, he asserted, pointing toexamples such as autonomous driving as requiring low latency and robustness, and healthcare needingbaked in privacy and security. But of course the imperative of next-gen network tech can be encouraged along if you are also injecting$350 million into helping the development of suchuse cases.With suchclear businessself-intereston show,Suri also emphasized that Nokias focus will be on driving new opportunities via IoT in a collaborative and open way.When it comes to the Internet of Things we have been moving fast testing ideas. New business model. New ways to use connectivity to deliver benefits to people and enterprises of all kinds, he noted, going on to list various examples of how it has worked with others to foster IoT experiments.For example we have worked with KT in Korea on the application of real time analytics and automated action to increase farming productivity. We have conducted a market trial for connected bus terminals in New Zealand. Trying new business models for smart cities that go beyond advertising and that improve the overall transportation experience. We have worked on providing intelligent transportation on the highways of Germany with real-time hazard warnings and other safety information, enabling vehicle to vehicle and other infrastructure communication.In terms of where NGPwill be investing with this IoT fundthere is no specific regional focus as with its mainfund which invests instartups globally.NGP managing partner Bo Ilsoe told TechCrunch the fund expects to make aroundoneinvestment per month  so 12 or up to 15 per year.He confirmed the fundwill focus on the samestage investments as NGP does, so at least Series A raised. NGP also looks for startups to be shipping product, have a few million in revenue and which are about to expand internationally. So its business as usual for the firm  but this specific chunk of funding is earmarked for IoT startups, with plenty of opportunities at the stack/network level, rather than on hardware/devices themselves, he added.NGP does also do follow on funding.Also today, Nokias Suri revealed the companyhas made an acquisition in the network securityspace, buying Canadian identity access management software company Nakina. He said theyexpectthistransaction to close in Q1.