Nominations are now open for The Europas Awards 2016, the European Tech Startup Awards. The Europas will be held on June 14, 2016, in London.You can nominate an individual (founder, investor etc) or startup that you think in the last year deserves to be recognized RIGHT HERE. The deadline for nominations is 18 March.TechCrunch is the Official Media Partner and attendees of The Europas will automatically receive deep discounts on Disrupt Europe to be held later this year. The Judges for this years awards will be announced soon.A limited number of EXTRA EARLY BIRD tickets to The Europas Conference and Awards 2016 are now on sale. Speakers so far are listed here.There are three types of tickets available Daytime conference and evening awards tickets (valid all day, June 14th)  this ticket includes the daytime conference and the awards dinner with ceremony and after party. It includes refreshments and lunch during the conference, and the awards drinks reception and dinner. Evening Awards-only tickets (valid from 18.00 until midnight, June 14th)  this ticket is for the awards dinner with ceremony and after party. It includes the awards drinks reception and dinner. There will be a selection of individual tickets and group tickets (half table for 5, full table for 10 or 12) available. NOT YET ON SALE  join the mailing list to be notified when they are available. PathFounders (valid June 13th-15th): this ticket is for start-up Founders only (and invite-only early stage investors) and includes the PathFounders programme. That will commence early afternoon on June 13th and end early afternoon on June 15th. Eligible daytime conference ticket holders will receive an invite to upgrade their ticket to include PathFounders.PathFounders is the exclusive event for startup Founders, in particular those at an early stage and/or fund-raising. Also invitation-only, PathFounders will bring together Founders and Investors in a series of exclusive networking experiences, in London, on the day before The Europas. This will see just 150 of Europes hottest early-stage Founders, come together with Europes best VCs and Angel Investors in a relaxed environment, with amazing hospitality. Tickets to PathFounders will open up at a later stage and will be an upgrade ticket for existing Europas attendees.Contacts:
General Enquiries
Please email:
TheEuropas@gmail.comSponsorship for The Europas Enquiries ONLY
Petra Johansson
petra@twistedtree.co.uk