Netflix shocked the tech world (and excited investors) with an unprecedented global expansion into 130 countries yesterday. That move means thatthe video streaming service is now available in 190 countries, so the chances are that you, dear reader, are eligible to accessit right now  unless you happen to livein China, North Korea, Syria or the Crimea.Netflixs original content  which it is ploughing billions of dollars into  is available worldwide, but the exact catalog forusers varies based on theircountry. Thats because licensing deals are different from market to market, and Netflix also curates its content based on what it thinks locals will like.That can be pretty frustrating, particularly since Netflix regularly pulls popular programming to keep its content fresh. But, in actual fact, the global expansion has literally opened a whole new world of opportunity for Netflix usersif youre prepared to invest a little moneyon some special software.If you buy a VPN  software that allows you to access the Internet while appearing to be in another country then Netflixs differingglobal catalog is an invitation to sample a range ofprogramming beyond whatisavailable where you live.For example, in Thailand, where I am based, the local catalog doesnt include some blockbuster content from the U.S. and UK. Having a VPN allows me to jump that barrier bymaking Netflix think I am in the U.S.. That gives me access to content that nobody in Thailand can view on the service.But it works two ways.There are many classicfilms or showsthat have long been removed in the U.S. and other Western markets, but areaccessible in these new Netflix launch countries.Or perhaps you specifically like Korean dramas or other country-specific content.You just need to know where to look. Given the number of Netflix content tracking sitesonline, it wont be long until someone begins compiling a master list of what is available where.Interesting that new Netflix markets have some classics (eg Godfather 1/2 in Thailand) which are absent from Netflix US catalog [h/t @sajal] Jon Russell (@jonrussell) January 6, 2016Theres always a risk of a clamp down, since VPNs breach licensing agreements. ButNetflix has, to date, been fairly sympathetic to VPN users. Ive had a U.S.-based account for two years without problems thanks to a VPN, despite using a credit card in Thailand to pay my bill. That gives me hope that itwill continue keep this option open for VPN users. (Famous last words I hope not.)So which VPN should you use?They are generally less than $10 per month, but will be cheaper if you pay for a longer period upfront. Its best to pay for a VPN, by the way. After free VPN Hola gothacked,its userswere manipulated to direct DDOS attacks. While Hola and others claim to uphold user privacy, Id advocate paid software as being a better bet.There are numerousgood quality options on the market, but I can speak to those that I know.I personally use TunnelBear  which has a neat VPN extension for web browsers, and is Verge editor-in-chief Nilay Patels pick but Astrill, ExpressVPN, Vypr, and Private Internet Access are others that I have used in the past and can vouch for. TorrentFreak has a comprehensive list of others if you want to assess furtheroptions.A VPN, which costs little more than the price of a lunch or a couple of coffees each month, isnt just useful for surfing Netflixs global catalog. In the post-Snowden era, they help keep your Internet browsing and activitiesmore secure. So let Netflix be the excuse for getting into VPN software in 2016. You wont regret it.