Im not sure about you, but most of my friends in real life  aka people I didnt meet through the Internet or work  dont actually use Twitter. (I sense that Im not alone here.) It makes sense, therefore, that Periscope  the super-shiny-newfangled-live-streaming-service that Twitter boughtand is pushing hard right now, has decoupled from its parent and can now be used by thosewho do not have a Twitter account.Periscopes latest updatelets new joinerssign up using only their phone number, although the company recommends associating aTwitter account because that helps populate a usersnetwork.The apps latest update  which includes a number of other tweaks, such as the ability to change your profile photo independent of Twitter, replying to comments, more robust blocking, and more  may seem minor, but actually this could be significant.Those of us who use Twitter love it dearly, but the fact is that it isnt Facebook. Its hard to see it ever hitting more than 1billion active users like Mark Zuckerbergs social network  under this current regime, at least. Depending on what you read, live-streaming maybe the next big thing in onlinemedia (or not) buttying Periscope to Twitter sets a limit onits potential growth. Thanks to todays change, my mum, dad, brothers and basically every one of my friends from outside of tech couldget involved.Cynics may feelthis move is bad for Twitter since tethering itsservice toMeerkat could raiseengagement and sign-ups  an area where Twitter has long struggled to hit expectation. But actually this is a far smarter approach.Offering Twitter integration as an option is more likely to attract users who willactually use the microblogging service because they see its benefits. Thats versus forcing them to sign up  or reactive their account  whether they like it or not.In a nutshell, doing something because you choose to is always likely to yield a more positive experience than being forced to.We may not be talking millions of new Twitter joiners, but Periscopeappeals to people in a different way to Twitter, which could help it reach new audiences thatactually understand what it is. CEO Dick Costolo has admitted in the past that Twitter is misunderstood.Twitters move to give Periscope greater independence is interesting because it comes less than a week after Meerkat, one of its main rivals in the live-streaming space, introduced an APIto expand its network. Meerkat, which was infamously given two hours of notice before Twitter cut access to its social network, has alsoadded support for Facebook over the past week.It is early days and theseapps have only been available for a couple of months, but it feels like theyare only beingused (and hyped up) by the tech industry and not your average consumer. Both sides are making their moves to enable moremainstream adoption, so therell soon be more ammunition for both believers and non-believers to mount their arguments about the future of live-streaming media.