A Swiss startup has built a social radarappwith a pro-privacy twist: instead of tracking users viaGPS, or other location triangulating technologies, theNowy Friendsapp usespeer-to-peer proximityto power nearby notifications without storingsmartphone users location dataon its servers.Currently the app usesBluetooth Low Energy to power proximity alerts, which supportsa range of around 50 meters (and also works offline). So the sorts of scenarios its envisaging its app being useful is to help friends serendipitously finding each other on metro trains, or at a party, or in a bar, or a city street.As well as proximity alerts the app includes acute person-based reminder feature, which lets users ask it to trigger a custom reminder when they are near the person in question  so the app can help people remember to give back that thing they borrowed, or ask a particular person acertain question, and so on.The iOS app was soft-launched back in March, with the team only starting to promote it last month kicking offtestingat theiralma mater, theEPFLin Lausanne. (They havereceived an Innogrant from EPFL to help fund development.) The app has between 50 and 100 daily active users right now, with 375 downloads, so its certainly very early days. Theyre working on building an Android app as one way to grow usage.Beyond privacy, other advantages of using p2p tech vs GPS are improved location accuracy and lower battery drain, says Nowy Friends co-founderSilviu Andrica.Of course there are plenty of social radar apps on the market already  he namesFacebooks Nearby Friends functionality and apps like500, Find my Friends, SocialRadar and LetsMeetApp as treading similar ground. But argues usingBLEgives Nowy Friends an edge  on privacy, accuracy, battery life and offline usage.Current apps store their users location information on their servers, which can be hacked. In contrast, Nowy Friends does not upload its users location anywhere, because it doesnt have to, he notes.Nowy Friends only currently supports sign in with Facebook. But Andrica says it does not upload any data from users devices to Facebook  so the the new piece of information passed to Facebook is that the user has signed up for the app. Meanwhile it uses Facebook data to authenticate users, make it easier for people to find their friends and prevent non-friends locating them via the app.As with all network effect apps, Nowy Friends usefulness is directional proportional to the number of your friends using the app  so it faces a tough challenge to get its target demographic (of 13- to 32-year-olds) signed up.If it can build traction, Andrica says the team sees potential to monetize via proximity advertising  allowing users to advertise to each other when they have stuff to sell. So sort of like an even more mobile Wallapop then. (He characterizes the conceptas an ultra-localized Craigslist.)Say I want to sell my bike. I can put an ad about it in Nowy Friends. As I go about my day and meet other Nowy Friends users, theyll get my ad, and if theyre interested, we can meet in person, right then, right there, and do the transaction, he says.Were also thinking of enabling companies to advertise to Nowy Friends users when theyre nearby.Of course, were thinking of ways to minimize the amount of spam one receives. And, were thinking of doing this on ones smartphone, not in the cloud.