I went into the Nuheara demo not knowing what to expect. Not in the sense of, How good will these be? so much as, Im not exactly sure what these things do. Like, are they headphones? Are they hearing aids?The answer, interestingly enough, is a little bit of both. The IQbuds are, ostensibly, Bluetooth earbuds. That theyre completely wireless is enough to make them intriguing, but what really sets them apart is the noise cancelling they employ. Its not simply the active or passive variety, its what the Perth-based company refers to as intelligent hearing. And its really pretty compelling.Nuheara has gone on a multi-city world tour to show off the technology. Understandably so. It really is one of those you dont quite get it until youve tried it dealies, which makesattempting to explain it allhere that much more difficult, but Ill do my best. Actually, a little background might help.When the companys SVP Dave Cannington stopped by our office for a demo earlier today, he explained that his fellow co-founder Justin Miller was previously the CEO of Sensear, a company that developed hearing assistance devices for factory workers designed to drown out industrial noise while amplifying their co-workers voices. Naturally, the next question was how to adapt that technology for consumers.Rather than simply applying it to a commercial hearing aid, however, the company designed a sort of hybrid product with the IQbuds, a kindof half-headphone, half-hearing aidthat lets users toggle between the functionality. For the time being, the product is still very much in demo mode, so I cant really speak to the music playback. Cannington assures me that it will be closer to Bose than Apple earbuds, but I guess well see in due time.The keypart of the hardware was, thankfully, in place. There are still some kinks to work out, having taken it for a spin around the busy Manhattan block that hosts TC East, I can attest that its actually pretty cool. And theres definitely some truth in the various demo videos the company has posted featuring excited people trying the technologyfor the first time.Even in this early prototype, the effect is impressive, cancelling out ambient noise while isolating and amplifying the human voice. When talking to someone, its a bit like having their voice in your head. Its not an entirely unpleasant effect, but it takes some getting used to,especially whenyou can hear your own voice bounced back at you in responseThere are a few other kinks to iron out. If the earbudsarent fitted snugly, theres a microphone-like feedback thats a little unnerving. You also get a high-pitched squeal if you take the headphones out without turning them off first. Also, while they largely do a job blocking out non-voice registers, there are still some things that get through  most notably that high squeak of truck brakes youll frequently hear on the streets of New York, which actually gets amplified in the process. Its not a great sound.So, not perfect, but promising. And certainly enough to make me want to give them a spin in their final form. Interested parties can pre-order the headphones now for $199. Theyre set to start shipping in December.