The sophisticated neural networks underlying systems like Googles Deep Dream and all manner of interesting experiments require a great deal of computing power. NVIDIA proposes to put all that horsepower in a single box, specially engineered to meet the needs of AI researchers.NVIDIA already has GPUs specializing in deep learning applications, so this was a logical next step. Its called the DGX-1, and its basically a fancy enclosure for an 8-GPU supercomputing cluster. Not that theres anything wrong with that. There are 8 Tesla P100 cards in there with 16 GB of RAM each, plus 7 TB of storage for all the raw data youll be training your networks on. And theres something called a NVLink Hybrid Cube Mesh, but Im pretty sure thats made up.Still not clear on what exactly a deep learning system or neural network is? The short version is that they are programs that simulate human-like thought processes by looking very closely at a huge set of data and noting similarities and differences on multiple levels of organization.Deep learning systems are most commonly used for recognizing dogs in images.The result is a system that can quickly and effectively perform tasks like image analysis and object or pattern recognition. Its still fairly new even to people in the AI and computer science field, so dont feel bad that you didnt know or that Im bad at explaining.Systems like Deep Dream will run on regular CPUs and the like, of course, but as with so many other data-intensive computing tasks, parallel processing beats serial any day of the week. GPUs are already massively parallelized, having to handle huge amounts of data under extremely strict time constraints, so theyre a great match for supercomputing rigs. 8 Teslas in parallel is nothing to sneeze at (they produce 170 teraflops), and while you could rent time on a cloud cluster with more raw power, theres a lot to be said for running your own hardware in-house. (Though youll probably be relying on NVIDIA for troubleshooting and maintenance.)Youre in for some sticker shock, though: the DGX-1 costs $129,000. No one said the future was going to be cheap!