Its been a long wait but the price-tag for the consumer version of the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset has finally been confirmed today and it costs $599 (plus shipping).We know because TC editor Matthew Panzarino just managed to order oneU.K. pricing for the headset is499. Oculus said it willinitially ship to 20 countries, and will also be available in limitedlocations at select retailers starting in April.Pre-orders kicked off this morning.Remember youll alsoneed to own a PC capable of powering Rift toenterits VR playground  so if not youll need to factor in that additional cost. Oculus said itwill be making so-calledOculus Ready PC plus Rift bundles availablefor pre-order in February,starting at $1,499.Also confirmed: the month the consumer Rift is slated toship  which is March. Previously Oculus has said to expect the headset to arrive in Q1 2016. So it remains just about on track there, although update  the pre-order site is now saying the Rift is sold out until May so its starting to ship in Q1.(And of course, without a figure on the number of units available to pre-order we cant learnanything useful about the appetite for the gizmo at this nascent stage  whatever Oculus claims about a community of VR lurkers.)As previously confirmed, the Touch controller for the headset, which will letwearers interact with the stuff theyre seeing in VR by enabling them to do stuff like pick up virtual objectsand so on, is not shipping at the same time as the Rift.But there is an option to get in line for the controllerduring the Rift pre-order checkout process, whichthen leads to an Oculus account sign up page.Touch controllers will then be made availablein order of these sign ups. (Oculus says it isnt taking any money from buyers til kit ships.)Good news, everyone: When you preorder Rift, you also reserve your spot for Touch preorders. First in line for Rift=First in line for Touch. Palmer Luckey (@PalmerLuckey) January 5, 2016The company has previously said the Touch controller will be coming in the second half of the year  so the dreamofproper, immersive VR is going to continue to stand just out of reachfor much of this year too. Virtual reality  such a tease In the meanwhile, Rift early adopterswill have to make do with theXbox One controller that the headset ships with (and the two bundled games).Despite the Oculus pre-order site running off a Facebook CDN the website has apparently beenstruggling with the spike of early adopters all clickingsimultaneously to try to secure a Rift. After months of teaser hype, and an instruction that pre-orders would kick off at 8am PT sharp, a spike was inevitable but its a little odd the expensive backend infrastructure hasapparentlynot been able to copeUpdate:Oculus founder Palmer Luckey has tweeted a little explanation for the pre-order site woes blaming would-be credit card fraudstersWe are experiencing insanely high load.  Credit card processing is trying to stay livr under load from mass script kiddie fraud attempts. Palmer Luckey (@PalmerLuckey) January 6, 2016So is $600 too much to be an early adopter of VR? Time will tell. Itscertainly considerably more expensive than the dev kit version of Oculus, which was priced at$350. And of course its not hard to find people slamming the price-point on Twitter But  my two cents  it was never going to be priced for the mainstream because VR is not a mainstream technology. Not for the foreseeable future anyway. Luckey has said as much himself.What else can you buyfor $600?