Well be at Dogpatch Studios in SF to check out the latest from Oculus, which is most likely going to share some details regarding its upcoming consumer Rift headset launch (set for early 2016). Hopefully well get a lot more specific on release timeline and price, as well as final hardware design. Stay tuned as we reveal all below!Check out some of our coverage here;Oculus Previews Oculus Touch Handheld Motion-Tracking HapticControllersAnd that appears to be it.Luckey says if you showed this presentation to someone from 10 years ago, theyd think it was sci-fi. Then hes off the stage.Demos will be forthcoming at E3.Oculus is using an experience called Toybox to test Oculus Touch input, and Luckey says it works with others to give the impression of multiple people interacting in a shared environment.They also detect touch-based input from all fingers.They have haptics so that you can feel the objects youre touching.Theyre mirror images of each other, theyre wireless, they have 360-degrees of tracking technology and inertial tracking. Each one has a thumbstick, two buttons, an analog trigger, and a hand trigger.Heres what Oculus wanted to achieve with this controller design. It was important that it not abandon traditional input, and that it be lightweight.Example is that you need to be able to pick up a gun in the virtual world, use it and then discard it seamlesslyGoals were to get hand presence, precise manipulation in VR space.This is a dev prototype called Half Moon.Oculus Touch is the input system!Luckey says one of the first things people do when they try it is reach out into the virtual world.Xbox One controller gives people a common factor to design for, though, Luckey says.There will be different input for different types of games, but Oculus is going to show us something of its own today.Input! Presented by Palmer LuckeyOne more thing that we really want to show you.At E3 you can try everything theyve shown today.Still that Q1 2016 date, really wish they would go more specific.Iribe is back to recap.Friends list will let you see what others are up to and jump right in. Theres also a 2D version of Oculus Home for use on your standard computer displays.Will feature VR previews of games you can jump right into before you buy.Jumping off point for everything in the Rift universe. When you put on the Rift, itll drop you right into Oculus Home, including a games list, friends list and more.Oculus Home: This is the new system software for Oculus Rift.Says it was a priority to make it just work right out of the box.Now VP of Product Nate Mitchell is here to talk about Rift software user experience.Oculus is announcing more than $10 million to support indie game development for Rift.Improvements are coming to Oculus Share to make it even easier, especially for indie devs.Targeting platforms is easy, but thats not enough. Thats why they created Oculus Share for devs to try others creations.Now she says with Rift, anyone can create those kinds of experiences. Thanks to close connection with Unity 5 and Unreal Engine 4.Talking about how Ultima Online addiction meant her parents had to get a second phone line for constant dial-up connection.They still just keep showing that Q1 2016 date. Now Anna Sweet, head of developer strategy is up.Now were watching a composite trailer of the games we just saw, as well as many more. One from within the goalie mask appeals to my Canadian sensibilities.And heres a look at the developers Oculus is working with.Heres that list.More games coming at E3, Rubin says as he returns.Insomniac founder says he was initially skeptical of VR, until he tried it himself.Scary snow planet adventure, it looks like. Im a little terrified already.Now its Insomniac games, revealing their new title Edge of Nowhere, which is an adventure thriller.Sounds super cool actually. And different from the usual VR hack/slash/shoot fare.Atmospheric RPG, Adams says. You tackle a labyrinth, which only opens once a year. The twist is that you come back every year, and your player character ages, leading to different abilities as you get older.Kinda reminds me of Ico or Shadow of the Colossus.Now a new game, called Chronos.Adams says they were super excited about VR and Oculus, worked with them on Herobound 1 and 2.Trailer done, now its David Adams from Gunfire Games.This trailer is even more amazing on a huge screen, cant wait to actually experience it in the Rift itself.In case you want to see what were seeing, heres that trailer:http://techcrunch.com/2015/03/19/watch-this-eve-valkyrie-trailer-to-get-a-taste-of-what-space-combat-is-like-in-vr/People will be able to try it at E3 next week, and its launching next year. Now theres a gameplay trailer.Valkryie is designed from the ground up for VR. You jump in, and youre immersed in a 360-degree cockpit.After demoing early versions of Valkyrie to fans, they found the response amazingly positive. Please make this, fans said.A small team at EVE got DK1 kits, and immediately started building a space combat simulator, having grown up on stuff like TIE Fighter.Now were talking about EVE Valkyrie, which is the first-person space shooter designed for VR and Oculus Rift.Heres the motto of CCP, which VR helps immensely with.Hilmar Veigar Ptursson up, hes the CEO of CCP, which created EVE Online, the massive space sim.Regardless of advances, weve always had a windows [we] couldnt step through. VR changes that, Rubin says.Hes talking about content at launch. Starts with how Star Wars inspired him to want to create worlds.Jason Rubin, head of Oculus studios now up.More input news coming later, Iribe says.He suggests that in the future youll be able to co-play in a virtual environment with friends.Brendan is back up.Creates a virtual living room within the VR experience in which to game.Streaming Xbox One games to PCs will also be available for Oculus Rift.Windows 10 has native Oculus Rift support.This is now a brief Windows 10 ad intermission. Phil is talking about how great the new OS is.Phil Spencer, head of Xbox is here to talk about their partnership.They decided that including a gamepad with this generation of device was crucial. So theyre shipping it with an Xbox One controller and a wireless PC adapter.This has been a huge question mark around Oculus Rift.Next up, were talking about input.Headset is wrapped in fabric to make it more comfortable to hold with your hands.Adjustable slider lets you set the specific distance between your eyes. This is like pupillary distance if you use glasses for vision.Iribe now detailing the comfort of the headset. Says its very thin and easy to wear. Feels lightweight so you dont feel like you have a huge thing hanging off your face.Headphones are removable so you can bring your own.All that audio must be 360, Iribe says, in order to achieve the desired affect.Rift features an integrated audio system for immersive sound.Some seated and some standing experiences, you can use it both ways.Constellation tracking system determines your position in space. Theres also a new sensor for desktop use to work with the constellation for tracking.Hardware has a wild field of view, and a new constellation tracking system.Now Iribe is talking about how they got VR to the point where your brain has to convince itself this isnt real.This is the first time weve seen a physical version of the shipping hardware.
And were doing the rift hardware and OS reveal.This is gonna change everything. Weve all been dreaming about this for decades.Oculus can make the T-Rex real, thats the whole point.Using a T-Rex as a demonstrative example. T-Rex being here would scare the pants off all of us basically.No matter what the advances in video games, weve still always been trapped with a 2D screen, Iribe says. No matter what you can achieve with a screen, you cant achieve the feeling of being there.Now answering the question of Why VR? Basically because weve always been moving towards it, from the beginning of gaming.Giving props to supporters of the project now.Hes giving us a history of Oculus. Three years ago they launched the Kickstarter.Brendan Iribe is up.Heres Josh Constine in full-on blogger mode. https://tctechcrunch2011.files.wordpress.com/2015/06/oculus-rift-pre-e30005.jpg?w=680This is the new logo, as seen dimly through a gauzy light filter of some kind. Ethereal.Heres the crowd. Lots of familiar tech press faces.I would love to Oculus.Were in!Stats!Heres the more readable version of that paragraph describing what were here to see.Behold the monolithic Rift headset image that dominates this waiting area.Heres that fancy new Oculus logo, in all its shiny glory on a super hip concrete wall.Were in and waiting for the event to start. Theres a lovely press area here for us to wait in, complete with stats on Oculus hardware to date and a teaser of whats on tap for today.