Microsofts Office product remains popular, unsurprisingly, given its historical record.According to the software company, more than a million folks are using the Office 2016 preview on OS X and Windows.So, is one million quite a lot, not that many, or something in between? We have some historical parallels to enjoy, so lets do that. Using the Windows 10 early-access program, we have a number of figures that we can use to scale the one million figure. To begin, some history:Windows 10 picked up a million testers in two weeks. I called that figure soft, essentially. Over time, Windows 10 has accreted new testers, rising to the figure of over four million over time. Iasked the company for a new number, which itdeclined to provide.For larger context, its taken Windows 10 around 250 days to gather what I presume is now north of four million testers. So, thats around 16,000 per day, on average. Of course, the number is lumpier than a bad oatmeal raisin cookie, but we can smooth it with sheer weeks.Office 2016 for Windows program to allow regular people into the system on OS X on March 5, 2015. For Windows, the date for Office 365 customers was March 16 2015.Its tricky to make apples:apples comparisons here, but we can do a little match and stack some coins next to each other to see how tall things get. Presuming, conservatively, a March 10 average start date for Office 2016, there are a total of 86 days that have passed. Simple division yields just under 12,000 downloads per day.Now we have to caveat in both directions  using an Office preview is lower-impact than picking up a new build of Windows, especially when Windows is released on a more raw and faster rollout basis. At the same time, Office news doesnt attract the same quantity of press coverage  anecdotal view here, but I think Ive been around long enough to make it  so we have to handicap there as well.In aggregate, I think that the Office number is strong. Of course, the usual carrot to that bitchy stick is that the company wouldnt release the figure if they didnt agree. I could tell you stories about response to my initial bitching about the Windows 10 one million figure, but thats for drinks, and not the morning.All told, Microsofts cash source that is the Office franchise seems to still have legs on the desktop side of things. For the corporate stiff, thats as surprising as a two percent raise. For the rest of us, living in what Jason Rowley calls Silly Valley, its something worth keeping in mind.