Tired of retyping stuff like yourname, emailand physical address when using iOS devices?A newkeyboard app for iOS, called OftenType, has a quick fix for this typeof personal data-related typing fatigue: its added custom shortcut keys to the standard iOS keyboard to save you some of the taps.Some of the taps, not all of the taps. You do still have to toggle between OftenKeyscustom keys views and the standard iOS Qwerty keyboard  by taping on the globe key  when you do actually want to spell thingsout. So its not an entirely friction-free process. (Nor is itfree: OftenType currently costs $0.99.)Also worth noting that iOS 8 allows you to create custom shortcuts yourself, such as typing omw for on my way!, which isfree and does not require an additional keyboard to be added, but does require you to memorize all your shortcuts.With OftenTypeyou can also store whole messages, under a Message key, so if youre a formulaic texter you might be able to chain together a fair few snippets before needing to resort to any freestyle Qwerty. Basic punctuation and the spare bar remainwithin reach on the custom keyscreen to help youglue multipleshortcuts together.OftenType is pretty similar to the (free) Phraseboard app, which launched last year.Although itleavesthe contents of yourcustom keys concealed behind icons withgeneric (but alsocustomizable) names  such as Email, Name and Message  rather than sticking it right on the Qwerty.So a casual shoulder surfer is not going to be able to read your personal data. Well, unless you makethe name of the iconthe same aswhatever infoyou want it tosummon up.The mechanism for creating the custom keys is also slightlydifferent, with OftenType providingtemplates under each key category to input personal data  which will probably appeal to those with multiple bits of info to manage, such as more than oneemail addressor several phone numbers.A custom OftenType key with extensions (i.e. multiple bits of info stored within it) isshown with an ellipsis at the end of its name. Tapping on the key brings up allthe storedoptions. Up to four snippets of info can be stored per key. But you can apparently createan unlimited quantity of custom keys.One thing to note: whilethere is a key type called Security  which seems to invite people to store oft typed passwords there  the appsPrivacy Policypoints out thats a bad idea. Though we do not collect you[r] information, we do not recommend to store secure information such as passwords orcardnumbersin full inside quick keys. Please, mind that they can be used in case of device loss ortheft, it notes.As withall keyboard apps its worth considering privacy and security carefully  because of the vast troves of data you could theoretically be handing over. And also,in this case, where youre storing pieces of personal data within the app. OftenType says it does not store this data on its own servers, but rather its kept locally on your device.The keyboard doesrequire the iOS 8 user to grant it Full Access in order to function, though. OftenTypesays it needs thisto enable the connection between the data stored locally in its app wrapper and the iOS 8 keyboard. Without Full Access even connection between the app and the extension within the device is prohibited by Apple, notes OftenTypes Artem Pochepetskyi.The only data Pochepetskyi says theteam does look at  for the purpose of improving the app itself  are factorssuch as theicons and titles users use/create, how often they use the shortcuts,how many quick keys arecreated. And we take itin an anonymous format, he adds. OftenType went through the whole Apple review process, where they check all the data storage and uploads by developers.For more on iOS 8 keyboard permissions read TCs explainer here.