Programs from Facebook and Google could make the crazyidea of getting internet access via a hot air balloon or lasers shot from a dronea reality, but how about going online via a network of Wi-Fi-connectedtaxis in your city. That latter option could become a possibility in the future thanks to a new program from Ola,the India-based ride on-demand service that is valued at $5 billion and fiercely rivalingUber.Ola today announced a new Wi-Fi feature for its high-end cars that will enable customers to automatically connect to a Wi-Fi network when they get into avehicle  no hassle with registration, codes orhotspot connections. Olas Auto-Connect Wi-Fi requires one initial log-in, after which a user automatically rejoins the Wi-Fi network in any Ola Prime vehicle.Ola and Uber both began offering in-car Wi-Fi last year, but both required a fresh log-in each time.The feature could soonbecomestandard for high-end on-demand rides in India,where network connectivity isnt always reliable, soautomatic log-ins could become a convenienttime saver.Ola Wi-Fi addressesthe need for consumers to be connected to the internet while on the go, without the hassles ofhaving to use unique credentials every single time. With over 40 minutes spent on an averagecab ride in Indian cities, an auto-connect Wi-Fi experience can make every Ola, the third placefor consumers, beyond their home and workplace,Raghuvesh Sarup, head of categories and chief marketing officer at Ola, said in a statement.The feature is initially available withOla Prime, the companys UberBLACK-esque high-end category, andislimited to three cities at first. Sarup told TechCrunch that the company is making plans to expand the automatic Wi-Fi service to other cities and all other Ola vehicle types, including even its Tuktuk service, in a phased manner, but theres no immediate timeframe for when that will happen. It isnt also clear if the service, which is free with Prime, would be charged separately when added to lower end Ola cars like Tuktuks.Ola is working with multiple providers  it declined to name names  to power the network. Each vehicle contains a Wi-Fi device which emits a network signal witha limited range. But, theres a grand idea lurking. Further down the line, the company could extend the range in each vehicle and thus create a mesh-style Wi-Fi network that, if there are enough cards on the road, could provide a solid connection for anyone in a particulararea. In other words: Olas cars could literally be beacons that powera metropolitan Wi-Fi network.We are trying to solve one use case first,Ankit Bhati, Ola CTO and co-founder, said in an interview. Potentially [we]can use the nodes [to create a network.] Wedefinitely want to get to a future where that is possible. One step at a time, but the potential is huge.Olas news is line with recent measures that the Indian government is undertaking to improve connectivity in the country, which is alreadythe worlds secondlargest internetmarket and counts over140 million monthly active Facebook users. Google and the government launched a program to bring Wi-Fi coverage toIndias rail network in January, and there may be parallels here.Ola didnt work directly with the government on its Wi-Fi service, but itis open todoing so in the futureAnand Subramanian, Olas head of communications, told us.If Ola cancreate Wi-Fi networks in the future, and it is a huge ask, it wouldnt represent the first time that itsreach has extended beyond merely transportation services. The companys payment service  payment wallets are mandatory for all on-demand services in India  was spun out into a standalone app that can be used to pay for items on a range of other services beyond Ola.