Ometria launched in 2013 with a mission to help online retailers make better use of data, and, in turn, compete harder with the likes of Amazon and more data-driven players in the market. But more data insights alone dontequate to more effective marketing if you dont take the appropriate action on a per-customer basis. That proved a stumbling block for some of Ometrias customers.Today the London-based company is announcing a further $2.5 million in funding and breaking cover on its recent pivot to become a customer insight and marketing platform aimed at retailers and commerce businesses who want to automate marketing campaigns based on Ometrias underlying data insights technology.The marketing automation platform works by identifying where each customer is in their life cycle, profiles their tastes and interests, and targets them with personalised messages to encourage further purchases within a retailers store. In a sense Ometria has added the missing piece of the retailer data science puzzle.Customers give hints and insights about what theyre interested in, in many ways  they look at certain items, they look at them again, they add them to basket, they purchase them online, they purchase them offline, they click on emails with them in there, etc. All of this information is spread out across a whole bunch of different places, but each bit of information is useful in understanding what that customer wants and is interested in, Ometria CEO and founder Ivan Mazour tells me.Our analytics platform had it all in one place. And it was very interesting. But most retailers didnt have the know-how or resources to know how to use it. So even in our system, with a unified profile, it sat there unused. They all told us if you can use this to directly communicate with our customers, and make that communication more personal, then it will be the perfect solution. So thats what we built.To that end, Ometria says that recent case studies from brands such as Swoon Editions, Finisterre and MyTights have shown significant results usings the startups new automated marketing platform, citing a 323 per cent increase in email revenues, to a 92 per cent increase in customer reactivation.If someone has just signed up, we can evaluate if theyre likely to become a VIP and send them a personalised welcome campaign. If they look at a particular category twice, we know theyre in the market and can send them a message to persuade them to buy. If our system thinks theyre about to lapse, forget about you, and never come back, again we can tempt them back with a personalised offer, adds Mazour.Meanwhile, todays disclosed funding round was led by Inventure Partners, with participation from existing investors SaatchInvest, and new investors Force Over Mass Capital. Several angels also participated, including Nickyl Raithatha (founder and CEO at Finery London and previously Global Managing Director at Rocket Internet), Lee Hudson (COO at AppyParking), and Richard Fattal (UK MD at Grokker).It brings total seed investment secured by Ometria to $5 million, and will be used to increase the size of Ometrias team and for further development of Ometrias automated marketing platform.