Editors note:Eric Adler is a patent lawyer in Seattle.A new trio of open patent licenses can help encourage innovation, discourage patent trolls and help companies attract top engineering talent. These licenses arent just for open-source romantics. They are practical legal tools used by software companies like Google, Twitter and Dropbox.Last month, I gathered a panel of experts at General Assembly in NYC to talk about open patent licenses. Heres what I learned.Patent trolls have two defining characteristics. They dont make anything, and they file frivolous patent litigation. Software companies, venture capitalists, and the EFF worry that this frivolous patent litigation is slowing innovation. On the other side of the issue, big pharma, chemical companies, and different venture capitalists worry about collateral damage. They argue that measures taken to thwart trolls would also hurt legitimate innovators and discourage R&D.Because of these conflicting interests, any legislative solutions will be slow coming. In the meantime, technology companies can think about joining an open patent license scheme. Open licenses are private arrangements that work within the current legal regime to encourage innovation, discourage trolls, and help attract top engineering talent.A patent license is simply permission to use a new technology. A licensee generally pays the patent owner for this permission. In our three open patent licenses, the exchange is more creative.License on Transfer. LOT is the gateway drug of the open patent world. Several large technology companies are already hooked. Its a palatable license option because the openness doesnt kick in until after the original owner sells the patent.Defensive Patent License. The DPL creates a demilitarized technology zone. Anyone can join, and members immediately (a) license all of their patents to the pool, and (b) receive a license from everyone else in the pool.Innovators Patent Agreement. The IPA, developed by Twitter, gives geeks the keys to the patent arsenal. It prohibits companies from launching a patent lawsuit without the inventors permission.Now lets dig into some of the details.The goal of the License on Transfer (LOT) scheme is to choke off the flow of patents from operating companies to trolls. More than 80% of patents litigated by [patent assertion entities] are acquired from operating companies. LOT cuts trolls off at the source by activating a special license any time a member of the LOT club sells a patent to someone outside of the club. This sale will trigger a free license from the new owner to everyone inside the LOT club. As a result, the new owner cant use the patent to sue anyone in the LOT clubhouse.Imagine that Google and Dropbox are LOT members, but Apple is not. Google decides to sell its sprocket patents to TrollCo. Since TrollCo is outside the LOT clubhouse, Googles transfer to TrollCo automatically activates a free license for everyone in the clubhouse: they all get a license to make the patented sprockets. TrollCo cant sue Dropbox for infringing the sprocket patents because Dropbox, as a LOT member, has a license to make the sprockets. TrollCo can still sue Apple for infringement, because Apple was not a LOT member.LOT is not a cease-fire agreement. Companies that join the LOT club can still sue each other. But they will be cautious about it because LOT only allows operating companies to join (no trolls allowed). Since all members are operating companies (they make and sell things), any patent infringement lawsuit within the club will likely be met with a counter-suit (i.e., you think Im infringing your patents? Well I think youre infringing mine!). Within the LOT club, patent litigation is allowed, but the threat of a counter-suit should discourage the frivolous kind.LOT may sound like a crazy idea, but it has attracted companies like Google, Ford, GitHub, JP Morgan Chase and SAP. Joining is easy, but requires a small annual membership fee. For more info, check out @TheLOTNET or email admin@lotnet.com.The Defensive Patent License, created by Prof. Jason Schultz, is a cease-fire agreement. Anyone can join, and by joining, you commit to only use your patents defensively. Specifically, you agree not to sue anyone else in the DPL patent pool (but if they shoot first, you can return fire).The technology in the DPL pool becomes open technology: anyone in the pool can use it. Anyone outside the pool can jump in, but they need to bring all of their patents with them. The more the merrier: The more companies that join the DPL pool, the more open technology it accumulates. The more open technology in the pool, the stronger the incentive for other companies to join in and gain access to the free technology.The result is a patent-sharing community of members (DPL users) and their patents. DPL users each have a free license to all of the community patents, while still leaving those patents enforceable against outsiders. From the license:1. Licensor hereby grants to any DPL User a worldwide, royalty-free, no-charge, non-exclusive license to make, use, sell and distribute Licensed Products and Services. [edited for brevity]All in. DPL users are the entities that receive this free license. A DPL user is a company that has committed to offer a license to each of its Patents under the DPL (section 7.6). This is a serious commitment. The DPL requires its members to license all of their patents to the community. No cherry-picking.Leaving the DPL. This all in requirement is mitigated by an escape hatch. Companies can leave the DPL by making a discontinuation announcement giving 180 days notice. The delay gives the remaining DPL members time to negotiate a new licensing deal or stop using the patented technology thats leaving the pool.The DPL is for companies with a strong commitment to open technology. Unlike the License on Transfer (discussed above), DPL patents become open technology the day the owner joins the pool. Its an immediate cease-fire agreement between members.For more info, check out the DPL website and follow @defensivepatent.Twitters Innovators Patent Agreement is like two-man rule security installed in nuclear weapons: If the United States went to war, two people would be necessary to unlock a nuclear weapon, each of them provided with half the code.Why is this two-man rule helpful? Lets look at the normal patent lifecycle, and how its adjusted by the Innovators Patent Agreement (IPA).The patent lifecycle often goes like this: a company hires an engineer, the engineer invents a cool new technology, the engineer assigns the technology to the company, and the company applies for the patent. At the end of the day, the company owns the patent and gets to decide whether and when to file a patent lawsuit. In this common patent scenario, after the inventor invents, she has no further control over the patent.The IPA changes things. With the IPA in place, the company still owns the patent, but the inventor retains some critical controls over the companys offensive use of the patent. The company cant launch an offensive patent lawsuit without the inventors permission. This reduces the risk of frivolous patent litigation (in theory) because inventors are often reluctant to approve a frivolous lawsuit.After a patent becomes an IPA patent, this two-man rule follows the patent forever, even if the patent is sold to another company. Once the IPA is attached to a patent, the patents owner (whoever that may be) will always need to find the original inventor and get her permission before filing an offensive patent suit.Heres an example to explain the IPA mechanics. Imagine Jen is a Twitter employee. Jen invents the widget, then assigns it to Twitter under an IPA assignment, and then Twitter gets the patent issued from the patent office.Now, lets say Twitter wants to use this widget patent to sue Startup Inc., a company thats never filed a patent lawsuit. In this scenario, Twitter cant file the offensive patent lawsuit unless it gets Jens (the original inventors) permission.But permission is not required for defensive use. If some other company (lets call them Acme Inc.) sues Twitter for patent infringement, then Twitter can use its widget patent a counter-suit against Acme. Twitter doesnt need to get Jens permission for this type of defensive use.For more info, check out the IPA website and follow @BenL.Congress may take years to amend the patent laws, but open licenses are available now, and can mitigate pressing patent problems. The License on Transfer cuts trolls off at the source, preventing trolls from ever buying LOT patents. The Defensive Patent License creates a demilitarized open-innovation zone that anyone can join. The Innovators Patent License gives inventors the power to prevent their patents from being used in offensive patent litigation. It should help companies attract top engineering talent, as well as reduce frivolous patent litigation.This article introduces the licenses, but glosses over the details. Talk to your lawyer to find out which open patent license is right for you.