
Spencer Lazar is a principal at General Catalyst.We take it for granted, but insurance is an incredible financial instrument for consumers and businesses: give a small and steady stream of payments today to avoid getting stuck with catastrophic payment(s) in the future.Whether medical, automotive, life, residential, or commercial, the value proposition of smoothing out potential cash flow outlays often makes sense. Pretty cool. But on any chart highlighting relative customer satisfaction across industries, you will consistently find that insurance ranks among the lastonly ahead of real estate, telcos and cable companies.Source: Satisfaction SurveyBCG / Morgan Stanley: Insurance Technology Evolution and RevolutionAt a time when nearly every product category has been reimagined by a higher quality digital successorthe insurance industry and customer have been left in the dust. But the amount of chatter and activity surrounding insurance in the venture world is growing.This is great news for consumers and businesses, and troubling for flat-flooted incumbents. To highlight just a few interesting signals from the market:SO, WHAT GIVES?The venture world is always in search for the next big market opportunity, of which insurance is certainly one. Insurance represents more than $1.3T in premiums in the U.S. alone. Thats bigger than the the amount of money spent annually on online travel (~$160B) + household work (~$460B) + food delivery (~$600B)combined.The industry is also really old. There are 46 insurance companies in the Fortune 500, with an average age of around 95 years. Were talking pre-internet, and it shows. The industrys entire organizational structure was designed for an antiquated, Mad Men era buying experience.And, these incumbents are pervasive. Collectively, insurance companies employ more than 2m people and spend billions of dollars annually on marketing. You cant watch an hour of television without getting interrupted by a little lizard, caveman in tennis whites, or quacking duck. Its everywhere.But the customer experience with these companieswhether in life, home/renters, or commercialhas largely stayed the same. Insurance has been insulated from the disruption impacting other sectors like travel, due to complex regulatory requirements, inherent channel conflict between carriers & brokers, and the opaque nature of data used to assess risk. Like so many other industries, its time to move onand to accept the opportunities, unknowns, and challenges that come with a scaled digital population.Timing is everything and the industry is finally on the brink of transformative change, driven by strong secular trends. The world is online and connectedcreating new distribution channels but also new risk (e.g., cybersecurity). Additionally, explosion of the shared economy and 1099 workers has created fractional ownershipand with it, uncertainty around who bears the risk.And in that digital world, we generate digital exhaust, which can be used to better personalize policies and underwrite risk. Increasingly, consumers are wearing FitBits to track wellness data, installing Canary for home security, or sharing lifestyle behavior on social media. Imagine tracking your driving data in real-time, making dynamic changes to policy premiums, and receiving an instant claim reimbursement for that fender benderall with just a few taps on your mobile phone.Crucially, the regulatory climate is also changing. Historically, success has required huge capital reserves as well as navigating 50 state-by-state regulators with unique laws around underwriting, pricing and distribution. This structure has stalled innovation, protected incumbents and imposed tremendous costs. Now,Washingtonis beginning to call for more simple and consistent requirements across state and federal levels.Emerging structures have the potential to lower capital reserve hurdles or change the way capital is pooled. And the U.S. insurance industry is facing increasing pressure to adopt international regulatory standards that encourage consumer protection and price transparency. All of these policies should lower barriers to entry, level the playing field and create opportunities for new entrants to innovate.The world is changing. If you look at Oscar, SoFi, Lending Club, these are categories of financial services that nobody thought would be reinvented by a startup. But we live in a post-2008 financial crisis, JOBS act, and peer-to-peer lending world. Now, more than ever before, entrepreneurs are ready and able to take on the Mega Fortune 500 companies.WHATS NEXT?Despite the complexity of products, the insurance business model is rather simple, relying on policy premium income and asset management. Im focused here on the operating side of insurance, and see opportunities for innovation across the value chain. Importantly, while each step of the value chain is consistent across the industry (as outlined below), the ability to fundamentally change process and drive margin will vary wildly by insurance vertical (e.g., life, auto, health).It has been exciting to see the energy thats being poured into the insurance sector from engineers, data scientists, and early stage investors. GC has been active in the space for a couple of years, leading early investments in Oscar (health insurance), Censio (driver analytics for improved underwriting), and Super (home warrantee). As I look at GCs work with next generation DTC brands (Warby Parker, Honest Co) and disruptive financial services (FundBox, Stripe, RealtyShares), Im confident that entrepreneurs can deliver new levels of service and transparency in insurance. Im excited to make a number of more bets in the categoryand even more excited for the value to be unlocked in the ecosystem.Thanks to Whitney Arthofer,Prateek Alsi, andMolly Gillisfor your help exploring this space and with this post.