Were frequentlytold Brits dont care a fig-leaf for online privacy. But one London-basedstartup is aboutto test that theory its just launched an anonymous search engine, calledOscobo, initially serving up search results specificallyforthe U.K. market. (Although the intentionis to scale the modelto other European markets in timetoo.)The founders arestarting with the U.K.because they reckon Brits do care about not being snooped on online certainly once they are madeaware of how much tracking is being done in the background by dominant search engines like Google. And if offered an easy to use alternative, which is where theyre hoping Oscobo will comein.Think of it as a DuckDuckGo that serves up U.K.-specific results by defaultOne of the two co-founders, Fred Cornell, used to work at Yahoo, so has seen the evolutionof the search and online ad industry up close.I worked for Yahoo for over 12 years and I really like Yahoo but I saw first hand how the industry tracks users, uses personal data, keeps pushing harder to make even more money from harvesting more of the data, he tells TechCrunch.Search engines, ad exchanges, advertisers, publishers, data traders, everyones at it. And I became uncomfortable with the whole scene and decided I wanted to provide an alternative and a better deal for users who are concerned with online privacy.Go back more than a decade and Cornell argues there used to be a fairsocial contract in place between the web user and the online advertisers and publishers. But in recent years he says that balance  i.e. of looking at an ad and getting toview some free content  has become hugelyskewed, withfar more personal data being harvested than can be justified. (And of course hes not the only one saying as much.)Over the last  particularly the last five, six years, with the rise of ad exchanges and data harvesting  I think that that social contract is in breachmore personal data is being collected than is actually needed and the user has very little say in this, he says, adding:People are starting to become concerned about what happens with their personal data, how is it being used and so on.He points to huge growth in the privacy search segment, outstripping the overall rate of growth in search (a $62.5 billion global market last year), as another encouraging factor. Last summer, for instance, DuckDuckGo said it had grown 600 per cent over the past two yearsin the wake of the Snowden revelations about government mass surveillance programs.Also on the rise in recent years: ad blocking a technology increasingly associated with theprivacy/anti-tracking movement, not just with pure-play ad-blocking.Last year Apple also threw its weight behind the online privacy cause very publicly. And where Cupertino walksothers are bound to follow.We think that this is right on time to do something like this, says Cornell.Weve been following DuckDuckGo in the States and weve realized that via education theyve managed to grow the traffic They have really validated this marketplace, adds co-founder Rob Perin, who used to work at BlackBerry. The U.K. marketplace is a very ethical marketplace, I think people do believe very much in their rights.Oscobo is licensing itssearch indexfrom Bing/Yahoo so does not have anysemantic search tech of its own. Unlike European rival Hulbee, a Swiss tech company, which last yearlaunched its own pro-privacy consumer search engine in Europe  and raised a bunch of money  another sign of growing interest in non-profiling consumer search.Licensing itssearch index from companies that have already spent billions on competing with Google does at least meanOscobo is sidestepping the problem of trying to compete head on with Googles tech.On the advertiser side, they also have a deal in place with Yahoos ad marketplace  doubtless leveraging Cornells industry connections there.So whats the business model? How is Oscobo planning to make money if its not being evil tracking and data mining its users a la the Google goliath?Its model is simple paid search, based onbare-bones search data (i.e. whatever string a user is searching for) andtheir location  given the product is serving the U.K. market this is assumed to be the U.K.,but whatever search string theyinput may further flesh out a more specific location.We think its a bit of a myth that you need to track users, store IPs and profile them and cookie them to make money for paid search. What the advertiser is paying for is the intent behind someone typing in a keyword So we still think that theres a lot of money to be made in paid search without having to keep IPs and profile users and keep track of them wherever they go, offline or online or with mobile phones and so on, says Perin.We essentially throw the IP address away straight away, we dont even log it. We dont drop any cookies.How much money? Oscobo saysthe privacy segment of the search market wasworth about 0.1% in 2014 but reckons it willgrowtobetween 0.5 to 0.7% this year (a projected growth rate of 200%to300% year-on-year). Which may not sound like much but the overall search market is forecast to be worth$71.8 billion this year so you can see why theyre keen to cut themselves a very small slice of that.Weve got a proven business model. This generates revenue  its a very simple model. Its advertiser driven. So were not here to grow the community and milk it later. We should be financially viable from day one, saysCornell.Google have other objectives [than search]. We are forfeiting [user profiling]data to prove a pure and open service where the social contract is you come to our site, the first two links you get will be sponsored ads. If you choose to click on them its fair enough theres an agreement there. If you dont we dont look to see where you go afterwards and when you turn on your mobile phone.In terms of targeting there is a very well defined marketplace for U.K. ads for Yahoo and Bing, and thats for the U.K., the marketplace we tap into, and then we target the keyword, adds Perin.The startupis privately funded at this point, including by the co-founders. Depending on how quicklythey intend to scale  bylaunching horizontal pro-privacyproducts for other European markets  they say they might seek to raise additional funding.This year we have a roadmap. We will be rolling out into other countries. We will be providing country-specific search in those countries. For the time being were focusing our attention on the U.K., and as it does expand of course well be open to investors, saysCornell. Our challenge in Europe different to DuckDuckGo is they have one big market in the U.S. Americas always lucky to have that. We go cross culture. So wed have to have this conversation in German and Italian and Spanish and whatever.