Self-driving cars are very much a part of the future of tech, with Google, Uber, Apple and plenty of other top names working to developautonomous vehicles. But what about trucks? Thats where Otto, a startup that has come out of stealth, is aiming to shape the future.Founded by former GooglersAnthony Levandowski, Lior Ron,Don Burnette, andClaire Delaunay,Otto wants to rethink the commercial trucking industry.In a Medium post,Levandowski, who lead Googles self-driving car efforts, and Ron, formerly with Google Maps and Motorola,explained that not only do trucks account for an oversized sliceof pollution in the U.S.  28 percent of road pollution despite making up just one percent of all traffic, they claim  but they cause a large number of fatalities, are inefficient and, to top it off, theres an increasing shortage of drivers. That creates the perfect storm for a tech-based solution, Ottos founders believe.Otto started out withtools to help truck drivers perform their job with increased safety, but now it is working on technology that, in time, can automate parts of the drive on highways.Unlike others, which are designing new vehiclesthat drive autonomously, Ottofocuses ontechnology that can be fitted into trucks that are on the road now.Rather than eradicating drivers by making them obsolete, the immediate goal is assistance. The duo told Backchannelthat, among many things, they aimtolet drivers safely take a sleep break while leaving their truck driving autonomously.The company said it has already completed one public highway demo of its system, and it is hatchinggrander plans beyond that.We intend to enhance the capabilities of the Otto truck, collect safety data to demonstrate its benefits, and bring this technology to every corner of the U.S. highway system,Levandowski and Lior wrote.Ottos team of 40 includes many former Googlers, as you might expect, and other staffers have worked atTesla, HERE, Apple, Cruise,and various automobile companies.The company has lurked under the radar before its unveiling today  many of its staff havent updated their LinkedIn profiles with their new roles, for example and there will be many questions about it, such as which investors are bankrollingit.Further down the road  no pun intended  itll be interesting to see how others in the autonomous space react to Ottos emergence. Apple is reported to have hundreds of people working on its secretive car project,Faraday Future has emerged  flushed with cash from Chinese investors  and there is, of course, Google. Does the Google connection make Otto and its tech ripe for an acquisition?Will others want a part of the company? We shall see.