Xendit, a money-transfer service geared toward Southeast Asian countries, is launching today in Indonesia.The company is billing itself as a more private money-transfer service thatll beat companies like Venmo to the market in Southeast Asia. Users can transfer money within private groups, as well as chat, but its not about making those transactions public, co-founder Moses Lo said. Since starting the beta a few months ago, the company has 13,000 people using the service.Users load money onto Xendit and they can send and request money from friends in the service or through phone numbers. The company not only has to work with Indonesian banks, but also ATM networks, Lo said.The company is part of this years summer Y Combinator batch. The incubator is the only institutional investor in the company.In Southeast Asia, its the perfect storm, Lo said. One is a huge population with technology, two is nascent financial services, and third is its one of the most viral regions. In Indonesia, theres [greater than 100 percent] penetration for phones.These people dont have a bank account, penetration credit card is 3 percent, but theres a huge population with technology.Given the similarities to a service like Venmo, Theres plenty of competition, to be sure. Theresa huge list of other money-transfer servicestartups. Services like WeChat couldthrow their resources behind a competing product. Telecom companies may get their act together and build a competitor that could easily overtake a company like Xendit. And new financial services startups are constantly popping up that could also beat out Xendit through a combination of moving faster or building a better service.Theres the looming giant PayPal, though Venmo and PayPal do not offer peer-to-peer payments in Indonesia yet. With respect to Venmo, a PayPal representative said the company did not have anything to share around global expansion at this time. And then theres the cash economy, one of the companys largest competing forces, Lo said.We have to convince people in a cash culture that were more seamless, he said. Through the market share, cash is still the biggest, and we need to change that.Xendit holds money on behalf of the user, and then works with banks to wire money. Its a normal banking relationship, Lo said, but in the future the company wants to have deeper integrations and core banking services. For now were doing payments pretty normally; were just doing it in an automated, fast, seamless fashion.Indonesia is so big, thats where [we figured] wed start and want to win. Lo said. The vision isSoutheast Asia, the Philippines, Thailand, thosewithsimilar profiles among otherAsiatic countries.For now, the service is free. And in terms of building a business, it depends on what consumers wantit to be, Lo said. The hypothesis, he said, is starting off with payments and then moving into financing.