Amid controversy around nail salons following several reports ofpoor and hazardous working conditions, a startup called Pamperis hoping the moment is right to change how the business works.Pamper is an on-demand manicure and pedicure service thatservesthe San Francisco Bay Area, though it doesnt operate in San Francisco yet. The basic manicure starts at $36, and customers can add extra services for an additional fee. Pamper has tenmanicuriststhat it connects to potential customers, and on average handlesaround 10 to 15appointments ever day.Theyre artists, but they often donthave the business knowhow to do marketing for their salons, Pamper CEO Vivian Xue said. Obviously there are some really good [nail salons], but the vast majority are chop shops that get byon either the location or some local advertising, and [nail experts]dont get paid for the time they spend there waiting for a client. Thats clearly a problem.ANew York Times reportrevealed that the working conditions at traditional nail salons are oftenabhorrentand that workers in those salons are grossly underpaid. Those hazardousworking conditions and poor pay bring the cost of a manicure or pedicure down but are terrible for workers. Thats resulted in several investigations into the industry, opening the door to reform.In general, people are willing to pay more for a good manicure, Xue said.Instead of customers having to explain new kinds of manicures to nail salons, Pampers team will be trained in those by default, meaning those customers know exactly what theyre getting and dont have to worry about the expert doing a poor job on the job.Were trying to promote more and more of these couture manicures; were encouraging people to get more ambitious, Xue said. Youre not going toget something thats kind of like [whats in] the picture, youre going toget exactly that.There are other startups in the on-demand beauty and fashionservicesspace, like Priv, but Pamper is initially focusing on manicuresand pedicures before expanding to other kinds of verticals. There werealreadybusiness built around on-demand nail services, but it was mainly done through Craigslist ads  so an easier option like Pamper would theoretically better convince experts like those coming out of beauty schools to come on board.Whatconvinces [experts to work with us] is the fact were low commitment, Xue said. We dont ask them to commit a certain time. But there are busy hours when salons are closed, for example  thats one pain point. [Nail salons] areopen when people are at work, and people have to takea day off. Mobile nails businesses are already ballooningwithout Pamper, and there are people who do mobile exclusively already.The unit economics of a model like Pamper are complicated, to be sure. Like any on-demand startup, its not clear if they will work out in the end, and its hard to tell until a startup begins scaling up. But when I first spoke to Xue last week, she said the company was averaging six appointments every day, and thats about doubled since then. The company is also doubling the number of manicurists it works with next week, shesaid. The company launched on iOS and Android in February this year.Pamper has the benefit of buying the tools and supplies required for these manicures and pedicures in bulk. It could also serve as a way for newer or existing brands to advertise their products, meaning they could likely get more discounted bulk deals. And like other on-demand services, if the demand continues to rise, the company can experiment with surge pricing that other companies use in order topull supply and demand to a more equal level.In addition to all that, Pamper has an opportunity to keep up with new style trends and update its options accordingly. Some examples would be tailoring specific styles around holidays like Halloween and Christmas  for this Halloween the company plans to offerDisney villain-inspired styles.Pamper launched in 2014andis based in northern San Jose.