Amid rumors that its trying to sell itself, Pandora missed on its Q4 2015 earnings report where it said it had 81.1 million listeners, up from 78.1 million in Q3 but down from 81.5 million a year ago. Pandora saw$336 million revenue and $0.04 earnings per share, compared to expectations of $332 million and $0.07 EPS. Q4 total listening hours hit5.37 billion, up 4.5% quarter-over-quarter and 3% since a year ago.Earlier today, The New York Times reported that the company would potentially sell itself, sending shares spiking up as much as 10% in trading. But after-hours saw a 10% drop, until the company reported its earnings and the stock slightly recovered to be down around 5% after-hours but still up for the day.Revenue up 25% year-over-year isnt shabby, but the company lost $169 million in that time and $19.4 million in Q4. After paying out royalties, there just isnt enough cash to cover its expenses. Guidance for 2016 is $1.4 billion to $1.42 billion in revenue with an adjusted EBITDA loss expectation between $60 million and $80 million.Pandoras business is a challenging one. It operates as an ad-supported radio with a subscriber arm, which is increasingly doing battle with major incumbents like Apple Music. Apples new subscriber-driven service has reportedly passed 10 million subscribers  and being baked right into the iPhone is likely a good driver for that and gives it an edge over Pandora.Then theres Spotify, which works with a different model but is rapidly catching up to Pandora, and also offers services like algorithmically-driven radio. Pandoras business started off as revolutionary, but has gradually become more commoditized as it starts to compete with other major players.In November, Pandora agreed to acquire assets from the bankrupt Rdio. On the earnings call, the company said it hopes to convert 10% of its radio listeners to the on-demand streaming service it plans to launch using the Rdio resources.This isnt the first time Pandora shares have gone completely bonkers. When the Copyright Royalty Boards decision on how much Pandora would pay artists came down  at 17 cents per 100 song plays for non-subscribers  shares spiked 22%. The rate for subscribers was 22 cents per 100 songs played, which ended up slightly more favorable for the company while investors were bracing for a worst-case scenario.The fact is that the streaming music business is brutal. Record labels and rights holders demand such high royalties that its tough to eek out a profit after expenses. Spotify has had to raise enormous amounts of money, while Google and Apple fund their music apps with cash from more lucrative parts of their businesses.Pandora will either need to turn TicketFly into a huge money-maker, or else it might be more stable under the wing of a bigger company with other revenue streams.