Imagine never having to buy new and expensive hardware to upgrade your personal computer with more speed and storage space. Thats the vision behind Y Combinator-backedPaperspace, a new company launching today, which is building a full,personal computer that lives in the cloud, whichyou access from any web browser. Similar, to some extent, to enterprise-grade solutions like VMWare, Citrix or Amazon Workspaces, but aimed also ata consumer or prosumer audience, the company is selling a small hardware device that plugs into any older desktop or laptop in order to provide you with the computing power you need on demand.Called Paperweight, this low-cost hardware deviceconnects you with your own remote machine on Paperspaces servers, where you can choose from either a basic or pro option based on your computing needs. The device is considered a zero client, because unlike thin client technology, theres only a small microprocessor on the inside  all the processing is taking place on the cloud.Today, there are number of solutions for accessingcomputing power via the cloud thanks to companies like Amazon and others, but these services require userstobe more technical in order to get started. Paperspace is different because its aiming to wrap up a similar service in terms of accessing a remote, cloud computer, but offering it through an easy-to-use console where everyday consumers can just click a button to log into their upgraded, more powerful remote machine.Co-foundersDillon Thompson Erb and Dan Kobran say they came up with the idea for Paperspace while developing technology applications and deployments in the architecture industry while at the University of Michigan.In order to run some simulations they needed to buy an expensive, beast of acomputer  and even then, the simulations took days to run. We started looking into cloud computing because it was becoming big in the scientific computing world, explains Erb. And then we started exploring how we could make it much easier to use because its really difficult to get going.He says that he and Kobran were comfortable with the process of using the solutions available today, which involved going to the command line at times, but most people are not.[This technology] is accessible to big enterprise companies and really technical people  but everyone else is left out,Erb notes.Initially, the idea was to target the prosumer audience with Paperspace  that is, anyone who needs additional processing power on demand in an easy-to-use interface. This includes students, hobbyists, as well as creative professionals in need of running simulations, rendering, 3D CAD, or doingphoto and video editing, for example. They also saw that it may make sense for developers or thosein need of multiple operating systems, who may today run things like Parallels, Fusion orBootcamp. Or it could serve to meet the needs of anyone who felt their time may be better spent actually working, ratherthan setting up remote machines.But theres a broader market that could be served, too, the founders have since realized, as a simple interface could mean schools could update outdated computer labs, and even enterprise customers maywant to use its devices because theyrecheaper than buying regular computers, and theyre easier for employees to use. In away, the companyseesPaperspace as being the cloud computing equivalent to something likehow Dropbox simplified file-sharing  which had been possible for years through solutions like FTP, for instance, but never clicked with consumers until it was better designed and madeeasyto use.The benefits of using a cloud computer like Paperspacesisnt only access to the processing power, but also the ability to run desktop programs which you cant doon Googles web-basedChromebook, for example, as well as do things like transfer large files instantly, or quickly screen share by streaming your display.The idea, however, is not to compete directly with Amazon Web Services and the like in the data center, but rather focus on making virtualization technology accessible to more people by way of an improveddesign and user interface.The software is agnostic, says Erb. Theres nothing that we have in our software now that requires us to run on any certain stackthe actual VM itself  the instance  it doesnt really matter where it is. It could be Amazon, it could be Google, he says. Instead, the service is about leveraging the hardware as a commodity.Were tying to make the softwarewere not really caringabout the hardware, says Erb. Were like a thin layeron top.The founders built the first version of Paperspace using Amazon, but are currentlyusing off-the-shelf server components, including cloud orchestration software Xen and Nvidia GRID. But theyre still testing different solutions, they say. Theyve also bought space in a colocation center for right now, though eventually they would like to build their own data center.And unlike with traditional methods of remote access like VNC or Microsofts remote desktop protocol RDP, Paperspace can run full HD content directly in the client by taking advantage of new web technologies likeWebsockets, WebGL, and asm.js on the client side.Basically, the founders tell us, if your machine can stream a movie from Netflix, its capable of running Paperspace, too.The service itself will be sold for $10 per month (for the basic service) and up, with different tiers available. (Pricing TBD.) Today, you can access either a Windows 7 or 8 machine or an Ubuntu installation, but support for other operating systems, including Mac OS X, are planned. And you can upgrade or downgrade from the basic or pro level service any month you choose, while still retaining your current customizations and settings.The Paperweight device is available for pre-order starting today for $50 for a limited time, and TechCrunch readers can take $5 off using the coupon code TECHCRUNCH for the first 250 purchases. The devices will ship in late 2015.Paperspace is a self-funded company, outside of aninvestment from Y Combinator, and is a distributed team of seven.