When you think of consumer drones, chances are youare thinking of quadcopters.Butfixed-wing drones have long been a staple of the military and the model aircraft community and now Parrot, which pioneered the quadcopter craze with its AR.Drone, is getting into the fixed-wing game, too.The 700-gram Parrot Disco, which the company has been workingon for the last two years, is a small fixed-wing consumer drone that looks like a model airplane. It can fly up to 45 minutes and reach speeds ofjust under 50 mph. The 1080p 14-megapixel camera at the front of the drone is the same one thatParrot used for its Bebop 2 quadcopter.Just like Parrots other drones, the Disco is controlled over Wi-Fi through the companys FreeFlight smartphone and tablet app or through Parrots more professional Skycontroller (which the team actually recommends).Like all drones, the Disco comes with a set of standard sensors like an accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, barometer and GPS. The Disco also features a pitot tube, which istypically used on planes to measure airspeed. On a quadcopter,airspeed isnt all that important, butit definitely matters when you want to keep a plane in the air.The Disco isntthe only fixed-wing consumer drone available, but the Parrot team emphasizes that the Discois much simpler to get flyingthan competitors drones. Somefixed-wing modelsrequire users to manually set items like the pitch and yaw, but by only requiringa quick shake to situate the Discoand a toss into the air to get it going,thisdrone will bemuch simpler to get airborne.Landingis undoubtedly the hardest part offlying any plane and thats no different for fixed-wing model aircraft either. As the Parrot team tells us, the Disco will offer an auto-land mode where the plan will slowly fly back to its take-off point and then slowly circle to land.Its worth noting that while this is Parrots first fixed-wing consumer drone, its not the companys first foray into this field. Parrot acquired senseFly, which makes a range of fixed-wing drones for professional applications like mapping, back in 2012. Unsurprisingly, the Disco also features some autopilot software from senseFly.The device is currently in a prototyping phase,thoughParrot told us they hope to have the Disco in consumers hands by the end of 2016. Price is the big question, but Parrot didnt give us any hints.