Another fintech investment to chalk up in London: Passion Capital has invested an undisclosed level of seed funding in Ravelin, an early stage online fraud prevention startup formed by a team of ex-Hailo employees in January this year. The startup is currently working out of Passions co-working space, White Bear Yard.Ravelins founders had been involvedin fraudprevention at the taxi app, among other roles, where they came up with the original idea to spin out their own business. The seed funding will be used to get their platform to market later thisyear.Passions average seed round investment  last we crunched the numbers was around 187,300. TechCrunch understands that in Ravelins case the VCis investing above that average. Albeit the sums involved here are clearly modest at this nascent stage. Ravelin iscurrently working witha small group of beta customers as it develops the platform for a fulllaunch, pegged for Q4.Were starting beta development with our four confirmed beta partners. We have a long list which were introducing gradually so as not to swamp our development team. And we expect by the end of summer to have a working product thats in production with those guys, and then were going to go through a hardening process with the actual product and build up our marketing and sales team before we take it to market at the end of the year, says co-founder and CEO Martin Sweeney.Ravelin is competing with well-financed online fraud prevention startups, such as U.S.-based Sift Science, which has pulled in some $23 million in VC funding thus far.However itsnot just a less flushU.K. clone. The spin here is its not taking apure-play machine learning route to tackle online card fraud.Rather itssetting itself up as hybrid platformthat blends human agency and machine learning smarts  looping in some algorithmic frauddetection but also not requiring businesses to abandon existing human-oversight and processes. So its a stepping stone sales pitch,for those not ready to fully embracerobotic overlords.If you look around in the market youve got the established [fraud prevention] players, whove been around for 10 or 15 years, whove all been bought by big payment processors like AmEx or Visa, and then at the other end of the scale youve got new entrants who are doing very much pure-play machine learning. And what weve found by talking to people  real world companies  is that neither are particularly serving their needs, Sweeney tells TechCrunch.Its very hard to go into a company and say look guys, all of that expertise youve built up over your lifetime as a company is no longer relevant and your teams experience is defunct because this new technology replaces it. But also its quite hard to go in and say the same tools youve been using for the past 10 years are going to be up to date with the changing face of fraud.Omnichannel retailing means mobile commerce is proliferating, and more and morebrowsers and payment methods are being looped into the mix. Its generally an increasingly complex landscape to monitor when it comes to fraud prevention. So that means human oversight is being strained  but that does not mean it should be replaced entirely, arguesSweeney.The old stuff doesnt work, but the new stuff doesnt address that fact that these people know what they are doing. So were aiming to sit directly in between those two positions, he adds.What does that mean in practice? Ravelin will offer access to an aggregated dashboard for fraud analysts thats pitched as easier to use and more comprehensive than existing offerings, and which also leveragesmachine learningandsocial graph information to aidfraud detection  but as a supplementarysignal which thehumans who oversee fraud prevention in-house can choose how theyrespond to.Were really trying to increase the efficiency and empower the human beings who are the core of the fraud prevention set up in any established company, he continues.What we try to do is to use new technology, including machine learning and social graph and graph network analysis to make their lives easier and make their jobs more efficient.These guys already have dashboards that they use, but they tend to be quite hard to use. And they have disparatesources of information. So were combining all of that information into once place in the dashboard for the analysts to use. We also provide ways for usually the manager of those analysts, the actual head of fraud, to keep on top of the numbers. To understand exactly whats happening. To have a lot more control over what you would in the industry call a false positive.Sweeney says this approach allows for businesses to set their own risk appetite and continue making their own decisions on whether they want to review all transactions or let them all go through automatically.They can still define the rules themselves for what makes fraud, rather than relying on the machine learning  which does the easy stuff but doesnt take into account all of their expertise. So its combining machine learning with some of the more traditional fraud techniques that these people are used to, he adds.People dont really trust [AI]. Its not being around long enough to say I trust my job and my responsibility to this computer. They still want some oversight and what were doing is were aiming to give them all the benefits of these new technologies but without making it seem and feel too risky. We dont want to make them feel like their jobs are at risk, and theyre putting their teams out of business. Were just making their jobs more efficient.Ravelin will be targeting the platform at SMEs  or large scale companies who are tech savvy, as Sweeney puts it. Itsbusiness model is software as a service, following the established industry model of charging a per transaction fee, with the exact level based on volumes, albeit aiming to slightly undercut the industry average.Its using the new seed financingto fund its beta development process, likely to last six months, shapingthe platformin conjunction with its first set of customersto ensure it hits a spectrum of ecommerce businesses needs.Having come from the taxi industry, we know everything there is about fraud in the taxi industry but not so much about for instance gaming, gambling, retail and all the other different arenas that ecommerce touches these days, addsSweeney.Not just people who sell goods, but people who sell services as well. Because thats an increasing area that fraud is touching.People who sell services are just as exposed these days because of the prevalence of stolen credit card data. And the quality of identity information you can buy on the dark net. Because of all the leaks that have happened, and all the hacking attacks  even the ones you dont hear about. Theres a huge amount of high quality information out there which is just really hard to track.