If youre tired of all thedigital demands on your time and attention, take note: theres a (new) iOS app for that. Pause  the latest release from digital design studio ustwo (aka the maker of Monument Valley)  isbilled as a relaxation and meditation experience aimed atcombating stress and the kind of scatterbrained thinking our multi-tasking, multi-device always-on existences risksencouraging.How does an appcounter too much multi-tasking? By getting the user to follow instructions aimed at calming them down. What this means in practice is encouragingthem to put their finger on the screen to touch a small, amorphous blob, and moveit around very gently. As the user moves their finger they are schooled to slow down (if they go too fast), or keep going (if they stop entirely  when, presumably, they getdistracted by thoughts of all thoseunanswered emails).As they move the undulating blob it swells in size, satisfyingly so, until  if youre patient enough  it grows large enough tofill the screen. At which point the app suggests youmight want to close youreyes, and  hopefully  experience that elusive moment of calm.A bell will chime once your(customizable) time-out is over.As well as lava-lamp-ish blobs and calming colors, theres a soothing soundtrack of suitably ambient sounds (birds chirping, water washing) to soak the ear, delivered via earbuds-only for a more immersive experience. (And talking of immersive, expect a deluge of similar relaxation experiences coming down the virtual reality pipe next year.)Pause isa pretty simple app, which is entirelythe point. For people who tie their stomachinto stressed-out-knots flyingfrom notification to notification, itmight be just the ticket to a brief period ofcalm amid notification hell. (Albeit, the appcant actually stop your phones notifications pinging in on its mindful bubble.)That said, the team is looking to do an update that will make use of the new 3D Touch screen on Apples latest iPhones  so they are thinking about what more they can do with Pause. Presumably iPhone 6s/6s Plus users could also be schooled to reduce stress by moderating how hard they press, as well as how smoothly they move.TryingPauseout ahead of release I found the apppretty relaxing. But was alsoreminded slightly of thisIts the second such mobile health release from ustwo, following the launch of a health journalapp called Moodnotesthis summer  that app in partnership with Thriveport.Pause is billed as drawing on ancient Tai Chi and mindfulness practice, and is a collaboration between ustwos Malmo studio and Danish mental wellness company PauseAble.Is there any hard science behind the app? Not in terms of placebo controlled trials involving statistically significant numbersof research subjects, no. But as they were iterating various concepts and doing real-time prototyping the team usedelectroencephalogram brain-scanning tech to attempt to validate their approach.Data from the testing sessions has been analysed and confirmed in collaboration with Dr. Chi Thanh Vi, Human-Computer Interaction Researcher at the University of Sussex, ustwo notes.They also point toscientific researchasunderpinning their approach  such as apsychology theorycalled attention restoration process  which involves avoiding calling on tired cognitive patterns, as well as being away from the everyday environment (although you are still on your phone).And the relaxation response in physiology, which is triggered through repetitive, deliberate muscular movements  hence requiring users first focus on finger movements. 