Earlier this year, the law firm Fenwick & West publishedareport analyzing the financing terms of 37 U.S.-based venture-backed companies that raised money at valuations of $1 billion or more in the 12-month period ending March 31.The reportsheadline-grabbing conclusionwas that inall cases, the investors had received significant downside protection in case the companies value declines. (Called a liquidation preference, the companies later-stage investors basically received the right to get paid ahead of other investors, as well as the companies management teams and employees.)The findingswere a revelation, but theydidntprovidea complete picture of what could happenin a downturn. In fact, theres a giant hitch the report did not touch on, and thatspay-to-play provisions, which became routine during the dot com bust of 15 years ago and could well become commonplace again if things headsouth.VCs, especially people whove been in the business a long time, understand them, says attorney Barry Kramer, who authored the Fenwick & West report and more recently wroteon Medium about pay-to-play provisions. Its part of their calculation. Im not sure that a good chunk of newerinvestors, whether non-traditional or because theyrejust younger or whatever, have this scenario in mind.They should.Pay-to-play provisions mean if a company needs to raise money and resorts toinsiders for it, those who cant or dont wanttocontribute their pro rata share will see their preferred shares reduced to either common stock or some other subset of equity with fewer rights. In short, an investor who doesnt pay up can forget about gettingpaid before others or guarantees theyll get alltheir money back. Those terms and conditions put in place in exchange for a lofty valuation? Gone.The impact can be far-reaching. Deep-pocketed mutual funds like T. Rowe Price might seem immune to pay-to-play provisions.But if the stock market were to fall broadly, theyd most likely look toreduce theirrisk exposure. Similarly, in a downturn,corporate VCs coulddecide, as they have in the past, to shut down their venture arms and write off their losses.Both would leave earlier-stage investors  whotypicallyhave much smaller funds  holding the bag.Pay-to-play provisions are easier to slaponto a deal than you might think, too.As long as a majority of shareholdersgives otherinvestors a reasonable amount of time  30 to 60 days, typically  theycan change earlier agreements thatseemed iron-clad previously.This is especially true in adisaster scenario, observesinvestor Paul Madera, who cofounded thelate-stage firm Meritech Capital Partners in 1999 and has seena tech crash up close.Early-stage investors in particular tend to dominate a companys board [and to]protect their investments, says Madera. And they canagree not to vote on a deal unless you modify your terms. These rights in downside cases can go away or get negotiated or changed.Luckily for entrepreneurs and investors alike, pay-to-play provisionsarent an issueright now, saysCraig Dauchy, head of theventure capital practice group at the law firm Cooley. In fact, Cooley publishes a quarterly financing report that tracks the deals it does each year, and Dauchy says pay-to-play provisions are appearing in fewer deals than you might expect.Of those companies with which Cooley works, pay-to-play provisionsappeared in11.9 percent in Series D or later deals last year, down from 13.8 percent of deals in 2013.Still, Dauchy notes that that could change as you see more of these companies go public at less than their private valuations.Kramer is even more sureof it. Were still in relatively good times now, so people arent focusing on pay-to-plays. Ifsomeone were to say its a significant issue now, thats absolutely not true at this moment.Kramer is looking to the future, though. And hethinks newer investors would be wise to do the same. Theres nothing static in this environment.You need to be preparing for the changes.Especially investors with a growing number of stakes inso-called unicorns.Were absolutely due for a valuation reset overall, says Madera.  I think the most vulnerable companies will be those that have raised the most money and given out these sort of terms in their last round or two.Those that haveraised less money, theyll have fewer issues.