Its no wonder Google is expanding its efforts to broadenAndroids reachbyworking with OEMs in emerging markets, via itsAndroid One smartphone affordability program; the latest global smartphone market data from analyst Gartner shows growth slowing, and Android specifically recording its slowest ever year-on-year growth.Gartners data on Q2 performance of the smartphone market overall indicatesgrowth is theslowest since 2013, with global smartphonesales to end users totaling330 million units in the quarter  an increase of just 13.5 per cent over the same period in 2014.The analyst points to a saturatedChinese market for the slowdown  something it also flagged earlier this summer. The market represented just under a third (30 per cent) of total smartphone sales in Q2 making it the biggest single country for phone sales.Its poor performance negatively affected the performance of the mobile phone market in the second quarter, notes Gartner research director Anshul Gupta in a statement. China has reached saturation  its phone market is essentially driven by replacement, with fewer first-time buyers. Beyond the lower-end phone segment, the appeal of premium smartphones will be key for vendors to attract upgrades and to maintain or grow their market share in China.Chinas weak performance also impactedAndroids growth, coupled with Apples strong performance in the market, according tothe analyst.Gartner notes Apples iOS has taken share from Android there for the last three quarters. (Applesintroduction of its first phablet-sized iPhone, the 6 Plus, has clearlyhelped boost its share in Asia).Despite its slowing growth, Googles Android OS still took82.2 per cent of the global smartphone market in Q2, recording 11 per cent year-over-year growth, byGartners reckoning. While Apples iOS took a 14.6 per cent marketshare, up from 12.2 per cent in Q2 last year  with y-o-y growth in the region of 15 per cent, according to Gupta.Is this peak Android then, in terms of marketshare? Maybe this is what we were really expecting the max, around 82 per cent, Gupta tells TechCrunch. I think last year it went up to 83.5 or 84 per cent of the overall sales.Still there is a lot of unit growth left in the market because globally we are expecting this year smartphones to be around roughly 1.2 billion, 1.25 billion, out of 1.8 billion [mobile devices], so its almost two-thirds which are going to come from smartphones, but then one-third is still left and expect Android to maintain their 80 per cent+ lead in that, he adds.Googles Android One initiative is more about driving more Android competition into emerging markets to raise overall handset standards, reckonsGupta, rather than itself being a vehicle for generating huge sales volumes.He notes, for instance,that competitively priced smartphonesalready exist in emergingmarkets where Android One plays. And that various Android OEMs  including Xiaomi, OnePlus and Motorola  are alsopushing OS updates directly to users (another Android One feature).Themarket is quite competitive and thats the reason we havent seen any huge success coming in from Android One so far, he says, adding: Google is pushing the program because it ensures that the users in those emerging markets get access to latest phone with latest operating system, so they are bringing in more competition in the market which pushes vendors to go for similar kind of offering.Turning to individual mobile makers, Gartners Q2 reportputsSamsung losing4.3 percentage points in marketshare in the quarter, and declining 5.3 per cent in unit sales  despite the launch of new Galaxy S6 models. Meanwhile iPhone sales were up 36 per cent, enablingApple to carve outan extra 2.4 percentage points in marketshare.Gartner says Apple recorded strong iPhone replacements in both emerging and mature markets, andespecially strong performance in China.Total iPhone sales there grew 68 per cent to 11.9 million units.Why is Apple doing so well in China? It comes down to the power of the brand, reckonsGupta. Its a big brand and people really associate that with their status and its kind of an aspirational brand so many of the consumers in China expect to own an iPhone at some point of time, he says.To some extent it has affected replacement sales for Android phones because Android users are holding onto their phones for a little longer in the hope of buying an iPhone Someone actually told me in China there are two kinds of smartphone: one is the iPhone, another is all the phones.And although Chinas smartphone market as a whole is saturating, Gupta says theres still room for premium smartphone growth there  which still accounts forless than 20 per cent of the market. Giving Apple room to continue growing theiPhones share in China.Apple sold roughly 7.5 million phones last quarter out of 102 million, or maybe 98 million, so that is closer to 8 to 9 per cent. Overall premium could be roughly around 20 per cent so that segment is still one-fifth of what the overall market is, he adds. So if that segment grows there are definitely more quantitiesfor Apple.Apples double-digit Q2 growth caused headaches for rivals in the high-end segment,negatively impacting their premium phone sales and profit margins, with Gartner noting that many vendors hadtorealign their portfolios to remain competitive in the midrange and low-end smartphone segments triggeringprice wars and discounting ahead of device refreshes planned for the second half of the year.tl;dr: It sucks to be an Android OEM tryingto make money from an Apple-style hardware margins focused business model right now. (Just ask HTC.)The market is very, very competitive. A smartphone has kind of become a commodity. And differentiation is really very, very challenging, says Gupta. Thats why some of the brands, like if you look at Xiaomi, they are trying to differentiate through the services. Where theyre offering exclusive content onto their devices.It also comes down to creating an ecosystem, with other consumer products which people might be interested in, like health bands or watches or other kinds of accessories. So it really helps to build an ecosystem around your product.Those who really failed to transform or who failed to really understand market dynamics have suffered. So its the reason for the failure of HTC or Samsung  they couldnt really understand how the markets are changing and the mature markets, as well as in the emerging markets. And thats the reason they are struggling to grow their marketshares, adds Gupta.Despite fierce competition in the space, Gupta says Androidslow barrier to entry will continue to encourage an array of new players  specifically he predictsfurther disruptions coming from Chinese manufacturing and Internet players focusing onnew business models that arent reliant on hardware margins. The reason being theres still plenty of untapped marketshare in many emerging markets for smartphone growth.There is a lot of growth left in that space which really attracts other players to come into these markets  although knowing that it is very difficult to make profit in this market, because there are too many players already. But I think it is just the sheer volume which attracts these brands to come into the market and try their hand, he adds.Just look at how Xiaomi has transformed themselves in the last three or four years. They were the number one player in China, theyve come into India become number five player in no time, less than a year. So some of these players have successful exploited the quantities in these markets.