The Pebble Coreis an odd thing, at first glance. Its a unique product for the company that is all at once different and familiar. Its a pocket computer designed for runners, created to complement the companys new watch offerings while playing to the startups new-found focus on health.Roughly the size of a silver dollar, the products functionality can be compared on a very basic level to that of an iPod Shuffle, with built-in storage and a headphone jack so users can ditch the smartphone when they go for a run. Of course, Migicovsky is quick to point out that the product does a heck of a lot more than Apples screenless music player.Its great for people who want to listen to Spotify when they go for a run, the CEO explains. And we built the entire product around that. Its just $70. Its super affordable. You can go for a run without the Core, but if you use the Core, it shows you your speed, your distance traveled, you can change music and do all kinds of other things.The Core has a SIM slot for cellular access, a battery that offers nine hours of music playback and GPS tracking on a charge and syncs with a variety of third-party fitness apps, including RunKeeper, Strava, MapMyRun, Google Fit and Under Armour Record. It also doubles as a keychain and charges wireless with any Qi charging pad. And the openness of the cubes JavaScript framework leave open unlimited possibilities for developers.Nearly as interesting as what the product does is the story of how it came to be. We looked at bringing all of the functionality people need when theyre running, explains Migicovsky. I know that some of the competitors in the running watch space have tried to build devices with all of that functionality built in, but generally they get pretty big and you end up using it for that one use. We decided not to build all of that functionality into the watch. Instead we built a secondary device that does music streaming and emergency calls in a little tiny computer.But the Core is just a piece of what is far and away the biggest launch for the company. Two months after Pebble was forced to lay off around a quarter of its staff, the startup is tripling down, launching three major products  a tremendous simultaneous push for a company with 120 employees. Were getting good at launching watches, says Migicovsky. Weve done a number over time. This is new to us. Were excited and energized, but were running full throttle.The Core will be joined by the latest versions of the flagship Pebble and the higher-end Pebble Time. With a starting price of $99, the Pebble 2 features a week of battery life and built-in sleep monitoring, heart-rate tracking and step counting, in keeping with the companys new health focus. Its water resistant up to 30 meters and has a built-in microphone for voice replies and notes. Its set to start shipping in September.Arriving two months later with a $169 starting price, the Pebble Time 2 features a larger, higher-res display, along with a 10-day-long battery and a built-in mic and heart-rate monitor, like the Pebble 2. All three products are launching on Kickstarter today  perhaps unsurprisingly, given the continued success the company hashad on the crowdsourcing platform over the years.Nowadays this is just how you build companies, Migicovsky explains when asked why Pebble keeps going back to that well. Tesla launched the Model 3 a couple of weeks ago, and they basically launched a giant Kickstarter. They took down payments for a car they wouldnt ship for years. Youll see more and more that this is just how companies work in 2016. They work more closely with their community to talk about what features they should build in. And they roll with that.The big lesson in all of this, so far as Migicovsky is concerned, is simple: Ship a product. In the wake of a rollercoaster of financial ups and downs, he believes thats the single greatest lesson he can impart on hardware startups. When I see people in CalTrain using the product, its the coolest thing in the world, he explains. Thats critical. Some people get caught up in whether the product is perfect. Should I wait? Should I hold off? My advice is always just push on. See what happens.Todays news certainly signals a company pushing on in the face of adversity. And with three major product launches all happening at once,what happens is bound to be interesting.