There have been multipleattempts to convince web users of the value of their attention and/or personaldata  by, for example, offering them freemobile connectivity for watchingads (e.g. Blyk).Over the years its proven a tough business modelto sustain. But with privacy such a high profile issue in the tech and political sphere, post-Snowden,its inevitable were going to see more startups trying to build businesses promising tolicense  rather than harvest  user data.In exchange for this controlled sharing of their interests (and/or eyeballs)consumers are paid inrewards or discounts for products and services. While the selling point for advertisers isthe promise of increased relevancefor their messages, and a workaround for the rise of ad-blocking.Its the latter factor thats convincinganother U.K. startup to attemptto make a go of this space. People.io, launching today initiallyfocused onthe East London district of Shoreditch, is offering consumers the ability to license their personal data (and/or attention span) to local advertisers in exchange for building up credits  which they can later redeem against digital services such as streaming music services. Or even donate as a cash value to charities.Unsurprisingly, co-founder Nicholas Oliver has a background in digital marketing and advertising, including working for WPP.In the last few years Ive started to explore the concept of an attention economy and how multiple factors, including adblocking, are inflating the direct value of a persons attention. The ah-ha moment was when I looked at how data ownership could be combined with the attention economy, he tells TechCrunch.Hefounded the startup lastAugust,raising some150,000 from private angel investors with backgrounds in media, telecoms and publishing to fund the first development push.He points to rising rates of ad-blocking in the U.K. as a big pain point forlocal advertisers  and one hereckons can be circumvented by convincing Britsof the benefits oflicensing their personal data to advertisers.Last year the UK saw an 82% growth in the adoption of ad-blocking, higher than any other country in the world. Naturally, that has made it harder to reach certain audience groups and as a result, the amount a brand is willing to invest on reaching those consumers has increased, he says. With people.io, we can use a persons data to ensure that whenever a brand wants a persons attention  theyre sending the right message. If we know how to connect the right brand, with the right person, at the right time  we can help reward users and brands alike.Why should people.io succeed in scaling the concept of paying users for their data/eyeballs, given others have already tried the same ideaand none of theseattempts hasyet to scalesignificantly.He argues his platform is not just trying to rebalance the big data relationship by giving users control over how their data is used, butalso that control  and strong privacy protections (user data shared with People.io is never shared with advertisers, according to Oliver, and can be deleted by the user at any time)  are not in themselvescompelling enough to change consumer behavior en mass (although he addsthey are essential to start to rebuild trust in the digital marketing space).The missing piece, in his view, is the feedback mechanism  akainstant and transparent gratification for the trade-off.With our platform your reward is instant and transparent, he notes. Every time you share or enhance your data your are rewarded in the form of credits, so immediately we build the association between information and reward. We also declare upfront the value associated to each question were asking the user, or what a brand is willing to pay for that moment of their attention.Oliver says the startup is forecasting than an average user, who is accepting one ad message per day, would earn enough credits in a month to pay for amusic streaming subscription (although he does not specify which one).It remains to be seen whether suchaverages prove compelling enough to drive significant sign ups to the platform. Certainly, significantscale cant happen immediately, given its limited launch intrendy Shoreditch. But Oliver says hesexpecting People.iotobe nationwide in three months, and launching in other European territories withinthe next six months.He notesthatconcerns about data privacy and intrusive advertising behavior have not only been growing in recent times, but are being driven at a regional level by political developments in Europe.The recent explosion of adblocking is evidence of consumers becoming more concerned about how their personal data is being used to create intrusive advertising, he suggests. Ad-blocking simply provides a short-term, superficial solution. Importantly though, this increase in awareness has contributed to the introduction of new policies, such as GDPR, which we believe will open the door to a consumer-centric data ownership model.As consumers become more aware of how their data is currently being collected and used, theyll also become more aware of its value and also the need to have control over it. An awareness that hasnt existed until now, he adds.It will certainly be very interesting to see whether the notion of rewarding consumers for licensing their data or giving up some of their attention span is an idea whose time has come  or an over-exaggeration of more marginalbut noisy privacy concerns.Although  pro tip  Id suggest astartup thats touting its pro-privacy credentials needs to add a prominent link to its privacy policy on its websiteOliver says this will be coming tomorrow, once its had a final review by the startups lawyer.