Pepperdata, a company thats built a platform for managing and fine-tuning Hadoop cluster performance, announced a $15M Series B funding round today.The round was led by new investors Wing Venture Partners along with Citi Ventures and Silicon Valley Data Capital.Prior investorsSignia Ventures and Yahoo Chairman Maynard Webb also participated. Todays moneybrings the companys total investment to $20M.Hadoop is an open source platform for managing huge amounts of data (big data). Pepperdata co-founder Sean Suchter ran the web search engineering team at Yahoo, which developedthe first production useof Hadoop (according to information supplied by the company).Pepperdata is trying to optimize Hadoop cluster performance. Hadoop is basically a dumb scheduler,Chad Carson, the other co-founder explained. It knows a job is ready to go, but it doesnt have any sense of how to prioritize itbased on needs or status within a company.Pepperdata provides a way to fine-tune that scheduler, prioritizing Hadoop jobs to give resources to the onesthat need them most, and ensuringthat acompany adheres to its service level agreement (SLA).Often a job from a particular department willhave higher priority, yet willget pushed out of the wayby lower-priority work loads, Suchter explained.Well look at the jobs and see that a low priority guy is flooding the network or taking [hard] disk, and reach into the interfering job and slow itdown just enough to give [the higher priority oneaccess], Suchtersaid.Hepoints out that its a subtle nudge, ratherthan brute force, cutting in line. The system knows how to dial down access forthe lower priority job just enough to let the otherone finish up.The system does more than prioritize, however, Carson says. It also uses available capacity across the clustermore efficiently. Sometimes a job may take 4GB of memory when it only needs 2.5GB. Pepperdata can analyze usage across the system and free up capacity in cases where there are unused resources available  and thereby make the system run much more efficiently.In fact, Pepperdata claims it only takes 15-30 minutes to install the product and upon installation, customerscould see a 30-50 percent throughput gain as the system frees up resources and makes them available.Pepperdata typically goes to a customer, installs the software and then monitors it for a week or so. It can then illustratethosecapacity gains and fine-tune the system based on individualcustomer priorities.Up until recently, Pepperdatacustomers were mostly early Hadoop adopters, already in production, who could see gains the fastest, but more recently the company hasbeen focusing onspecific verticals such asbanking, healthcare and telecommunications.Pepperdata, which was founded in 2012, has headquarters in Sunnyvale and recently openeda new northeast office in New York City. Ithas around 30 employees today, but plans to add more toproduct and sales and marketing with the new money over the coming year and be close to 50 by years end.The company measures sales in nodes and currently claimsaround 10,000 licensed nodes, according to Suchter.