As data scientists continue to become an ever-prominent part of the IT team in any business (not just tech businesses), were seeing the emergenceof more products and services that are built to cater specifically to them. Periscope Data is a startup that has built a platform for data scientists to create fastbut highly detailed and customised visualisations  think Tableau, but for engineers  and it has raised $9.5 million in funding.The Series A round is led by DFJs Josh Stein, a new investor in the company, along with participation from previous backers AngelPad, Susa Ventures and Eric Schmidts Innovation Endeavors.Started in 2012 by ex-Googler Harry Glaser (who is now Periscopes CEO) and ex-Microsoftie Tom ONeill, Periscope has a number of other notable early fanswho invested in its angel round. The listincludes Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer (who wasGlasers boss at Google), Ellen Pao, Google Ventures and SV Angel. In a business where success is often predicated on the perfect mix of useful and great product, money and the right connections, its a sign of how Periscope Data is on track in nailing all three.Periscope Data (which Glaser tells me never really has any name confusion with the other well-knownPeriscope)works by taking raw data from various sources  the most popular Glaser says areMySQL,PostgreSQL,Amazon Redshift (which has a partnership with the startup but does not invest),Salesforce andMicrosoft SQL Server  and with a few short commands, lets engineers create graphics to help make better sense of the numbers.The key also is in how fast the service works: 150 times faster than any other visualisation tool on the market, the company claims. The speed is partly due to how Periscope Data was originally architected: theoriginal startup idea, Glaser tells me, was to build a site where engineers could enter any kind of data query based on data in the cloud and get a fast answer (a kind of Google for data engineers, as it were). The visualisation tool was an accidental side project to this,but they found was being used much, much more than the rest.Wegot 2,000users for the first product, which was very fast and flexible and nothing like that that existed, Glaser said. We built the original version of Periscope Data for ourselves to look at the data of how the original service was being used. It was humbling when people turned out to be muchmore interested in that side project than they were in the main one.Periscope Datahas up to now largely grown by word of mouth and very little marketing, and even so its picked up steam in an impressive way. Of the200 businesses who have signed up so far, customers are highly engaged in the words of DFJs Stein, with 90% using it at least once per day: Thatsaninsane stat for any businessapp, so we are betting that even more will have similardata science needs. Periscope Datas customer base has grown 10-fold in the last year.Interestingly, while so much technology today feels like its out there to replace less efficient human labor, Periscope Data sees itself as serving a different purpose.So often companies like ours focused on data science, the pitch they give to companies is that there will never be enough data analysis in the world, but if you buy our software you wont need to hire as many data scientists, said Glaser. But the best companies are hiring whole teams of these analysts to compete. Thats something you will continue to have to do, and you should be giving them the best tools to do their jobs.Its also part of a bigger wave of startups coming out that are also trying to do the same thing, some of which are also, interestingly focusing on visualising all that abstract data. CartoDB, for example, focuses on mapping specifically.Glaser says there areno immediate plans to add new products at the moment, as this is really the first time that the company will marketPeriscope Datas visualisation platform. Its also going to do some more hiring in its engineering team.