Twitter today gave the first official news about the growth of its live-streaming video acquisition Periscope, with CEO Dick Costolo saying more than 1 million people signed in to the appin the first 10 days after its official launch on March 26. The public is closely watching Periscopes growth, as its in a heated battle with independent competitor Meerkat for the mobile live-streaming market. Costolo said we have seen tremendous early growth in Periscope.And thats only on iOS. Periscope has yet to launch on Android, but Twitter investor Chris Sacca today previewed a version of Periscope for Googles mobile OS during a Periscoped interview with the products CEO Kayvon Beykpour. The two revealed that Periscopes web viewerswill also get the ability to comment on streams today.Periscope is now at No. 167 in the US-Overall iOS chart and No. 22 in US-Social Networking, according to App Annie. For comparison, Meerkat appears to have fallen out of the top 1,000 U.S. apps, and is at No. 129 in the US-Social Networking chart.Costolo took time to specifically discuss video today during Twitters Q1 2015 earnings call. He also mentioned Twitters native video products and its acquisition of Niche [disclosure: My cousin is one of Niches founders], which connects Vine and other social media stars to brands so they can get paid for creating sponsored content.CFO Anthony Noto mentioned that Since the launch of native video on the platform on iOS and Android, weve seen orders of magnitude increases in the volume of video shared to Twitter. That content is some of the most engaging on the platform.Costolo also said that Twitter has the potential to push video to logged out users and syndication as well as people who use its apps, noting Im super excited and confident in the ability to grow the Periscope user base.I hear Costolo has been even more enthusiastic about video.Sources tell me that hehas been telling new employees during orientation that video is the future of Twitter. Thats similar to how we heard Costolo pitched the acquisition to Periscopes founders. The more organic video content Twitter can get on its platform, the more highly lucrative video ads it can insert without users getting mad.If Twitter is a way to instantly know what someones thinking, Periscope instantly shows you what theyre seeing. Whether its for news, celebrities connecting with fans, or simply interesting content, all of Twitters top styles of tweets would be even more vivid with live-streamed video.