The way people watch TV in a multi-device world is changing, which has led a number of consumers  especially among the younger demographic  to cut the cord with traditional payTV, or just never sign up in the first place. Philoisa startup thats helping cable and satellite TV providers re-engage this audience at the university level with a live TV service offering search, sharing and a network-based DVR. The company has now raised an additional $10 million in Series B funding to continue to grow its business.The funding was led by Philos Series A investor NEA and includes participation from a small broadcast affiliateCBC New Media Group of Raleigh, NC; HBO; Rho Ventures;XFUND;and Philos CEO Andrew McCollum. The service is one of the first startups to receive an investment from HBO, which also previously invested in an early round.An early Facebook employee, McCollum first came across Philo as an angel investor, and later began to advise the company then joined its board following the Series A co-led by Rhoand NEA. He took on the CEO role in September.McCollum explains that hes always been fascinated with television and was intrigued by the idea of building a version of this service for the next generation of viewers.TV is the most engaging consumer product ever created  the average person spends between 4 and 5 hours a day watching television, he says. Its also the most lucrative advertising platform ever created. However, he addsthat the experience of watching TV today is not very well optimized for consumers or advertisers alike. The advertising experience has none of the hallmarks of effective digital advertising which are measurement, targeting and interactivity, the CEO notes.With Philo, the company has developed something of a TV Everywhere product that delivers live TV and a networkDVR to consumers devices, including smartphones and tablets. Its similar in a way to services like Sling TV  Dishs own Internet-based TV service, as its also about delivering live TV as Internet-based streams. However, unlike Sling, Philo partners with a number of existing distributors thatalready have deals in place with the universities where Philo is now offered.That is, the company places its own hardware on campus where its connected to the schools local video ingest, which could be cable or satellite, or its placed at the local cable companys head end.Today, Philo is working with Direct TV, Dish, and Comcast in select markets, where the schools pay a modest (but undisclosed) fee to Philo on top of their pay TVdeal in order to have the traditional TV feed converted to IP video thenserved out across the Philo network.The service is live now with a couple dozen universities around the U.S.In addition to the live TV feed and network DVR, Philo is now expanding its collection of on-demand content and is working to improve its social features, which currently allow students to share links to programs they like with one another.Philo started with students because theyre early tech and media adopters and are driving the sea change in TV. They are becoming the cord-cutters and never-cords of the industry who are abandoning traditional television packages, McCollumsays. The traditional pay TV industry has been waking up to this change  offering cord-cutter packages or a la carte programming, for example. Philo instead offers another way to re-engage this audience.While the top four cable providers today have their own TV Everywhere solutions, Philo hopes to make deals with smaller providers who dont have resources in-house to build their own solutions, and, in time,bigger companies who see the strength of its product.While today Philosbusinessrelies on itsuniversity deals, over the next 12 months, McCollum says he sees the potential for the service to expand beyond the college market.Despite the shift to streaming services like Netflix and Amazon,McCollum believes cable programming has a future in the multi-screen, on-demand era. There are still 100 million pay TV subscribers, he says. That content is still incredibly compelling and its certainly the bulk of what people are watching.With the additional funding, the company is relocating from Cambridge to San Francisco and hiring to expand its now 28-person team across the board.