Order stuff to your phone not your home is the pitch for this Belgian app, built for mobile carrier BASE by comms agency DDB and launched last week in a test phase.Its mostly an experiment right now, and is limited to domestic deliveries at present, but the agency reckons its concept of Uber for on-demand deliveries could go far.Uber is also interested indeliveriesof course, which will likely affect how far others get in this space. But safe to say the starting gun for deliveries to your phone has been fired. Swap out human couriers for driverless cars anddelivery drones and the frictionless vistaof push-button everywhere ecommerce beckons. Albeit were a ways off thatyet.In the test phase we are working with Royal Delivery, a food delivery company but talks with other partners in different sectors are ongoing, says DDB. The goal is to facilitate the life of people who want to live a truly mobile life. Because waiting at home for a delivery, thats just stupid in times where everyone is on the go and everything is mobile.BASE has more than three million customers. Its not looking to directly monetize deliveries booked via the app, sono additional charges are added on top of whatever the restaurant normally charges. This is just about incentivizing people to rely ontheir phones even more.As the on-demand economy seeks to shave off ever more incremental barriers to consumergratification any kind of immoveable becomes objectionable to the money makers  such as having a delivery address thats fixed to a permanent abode. Cynics might say its abelong nowhere, shop everywhere world these disruptors are aimingto build.Users of PhoneAddress, as the Belgian app is called,are shown their location on a map, and offered various local food delivery options which they can order to come to wherever they are. The app lets them track their couriers progress with their delivery  so theyre notified when theorder is being prepared. And when its on its way they see a map view of thecourier in real-time, much likeUber.The location pinpointing works withGPS/4G, with the final few meters switching over tothe age-old method of two peoplelooking around to findeach other  albeit, with buyer and courier able to see each othersphoto in the app so they can be recognized. If that fails, theres a fallback option of a phone call.