After the sweating toilof transforminga hardware prototypeinto an actualshipping product, the makers of a$299kit laptop called Pi-Topare crowdfunding their next project. And this time theyre aiming to packagethe low cost Raspberry Pi microcomputer into a far more affordable form factor.Meet the $99 Pi-TopCEED:a desktop computer powered by Pi  just add your own keyboard and mouse.Why make a Pi desktop in an era of increasingly mobile computing? The main bit of criticism aimed at thePi-Top laptop has beenits price-point,says co-founder Jesse Lozano. People were saying Id just like something that could make my Raspberry Pi work, for like $100. Or for like $150.Theres just no way youre going to make a good quality laptop for that kind of money.So instead, Lozano and his co-founder Ryan Dunwoody decided to focus on making a really functional desktop  and Pi-TopCEED is the more affordable result. So far, on Indiegogo, the team hasnearly tripled itsinitial $50,000 crowdfunding target, still with more than a week to go. So theyre not short of pledged funds to turn theirprototype into shipping product next April.The conversion rate for Pi-TopCEED is four times higher than it was for Pi-Top. So I think the price-point is really doing what I wanted it to do  and thats get people who are interested in making, but dont really know how to get there and they dont really want to spend too much money on it. But theyre happy to spend $99 on a cool looking desktop and try it out, he adds.Hardware andsoftware designed fortinkeringThe Pi-TopCEED is designed to stand on a desktop, housing the Pi in a rectangular casing that comprisesa 13.3in HD screen; a front-loading panel where the Pi sits mounted on a rail for easy access, along with any other hardware components you might want to add; and a stand at the back so the screen can be positioned atdifferent viewing angles.Add on bits of hardware caninclude a set of speakers, so the Pi-powered desktop becomesa little more fully featured. Ora breadboard for playing aroundwithelectronics, which will, in turn, plug into a software learning environment the team is also creatingfor the device, so users can use the Pi-TopCEED to learn about hardware making. (They will also be offering a software emulation environment for electronics  so you wont need to buy any extra hardware to learn how to prototype your own gadgets, unless you really want to.)As with the Pi-Top, the Pi-TopCEED is powered by a dedicated OS,calledPi-TopOS, which addsa user-friendly layer to simplify the Raspberry Pi computingexperience. Such as, for instance, adding a battery life read-out.We do some things that have never been done before with Raspberry Pi. And need to be done  just small things that make it completely user-friendly. So when you turn a Pi-Top or a Pi-TopCEED on or off you dont have to do safe shutdown, like you would normally do with a Raspberry Pi. You just click a button and it turns off. And it runs through the safe shutdown for you, saysLozano.When you want to change your desktop around you can easily change your background, and personalize it like you would any other computer device. But you cant do that with Raspberry Pi so easily, so its all there in ouroperating system.The Pi-TopCEEDs flagship bit of software will bea gamified educationalenvironment called CEEDUniverse. Gamified in the literal sense in that its actually a game  a massively multiplayer online role-playing game, no less, capable of supporting as many as 3,000 animations on the screen.The game is inspired in part by the many hours of Lozanos youth spent playing World of Warcraft.So with this devicekids will be able to tell their parents they are doing their homework andplaying a Civilization-style MMORPG.That, my friends, is progressI used to play World of Warcraft. It almost pains me to admit it but in three years I racked up 540 days played on WoW when I was younger, says Lozano. Im trying to take all that amazing lore and really engrossing story that comes from games like Warcraft and Starcraft and other beautiful games like Bethesdas game series, like BioShock, Fallout, they all have these amazing stories The next [CEEDUniverse] game release is going to have a lot of lore behind it. But that lore is integrally linked with coding and practical computing skills.Its our personal goal that if you play our game for between three and six months  it depends on how quick you are  that youll be able to get an A in your GCSE computing curriculum. So were really not messing around. Were saying we genuinely want to teach you practical skills.And before you ask, there will be no DLC. No subscription required to play the game. The game itself will be entirely free to play. The teamis planning to monetize via its core Pi case hardware and additional hardware add-ons, such asbreadboards or the $15 aforementioned speaker kit. And perhaps also in future some cloud saving options so users can have a cloud backup in case their SD card corrupts. But not by pushing any in-game purchases.The game will always be free. You can quote me on that, adds Lozano. I want it to be an ultimate learning resource.Hardware is hard  buteasier second time aroundIf youre concerned about whetherthiscrowdfunded hardware project will deliver on its promises, because, lets face it, many hardware crowdfunding projects havent including some very high profile campaignsof late  then your calculated risk in pre-ordering a device that doesnt exist yet is less risky here than it might otherwise be. Because this isthe London teams second crowdfunder, aftersuccessfully shipping similar hardware from an earliercampaign.That means theyve established manufacturing relationships and have supply chain expertise under their belt, as well as actual shipped Pi-Top laptops in the wild to point to. So although there was a delay of around four months on the original Pi-Top project shipping, vs the teams initial estimate, Lozano says hes confident they have all the pieces in place to avoid such delays second time around.We control our entire supply side. And in fact we built our production line from the ground up, so its a completely modular production line, he says. Weve been working really hard to shore that up as a hardware company  thats what people often worry about. Butmost of the team has a Masters in engineering from somewhere. So weve been working real hard to make that as efficient and as smooth as possible.My co-founder Ryan lived in Shenzhen at the assembly point in our factory for five months to make it all happen, he adds. He went out there all clean shaven and he came back with a massive beard! So when you live out there for that long, talking to your manufacturers and everyone whos involved in the process  literally hundreds and hundreds of people  we were able to get really excellent relationships with start of the supply chain manufacturers.The Pi-Top shipping delays boileddown to inexperience-related factors such realizing it would not be possible to use certain off the shelf components,as theyd originally thought they could, says Lozano. Instead they ended up developing their own battery pack, for example, which added time to the development schedule. They also decided to boostthe quality of the case, stepping upto six mould design and having to make structural changes to the product as a result.We learnt a huge amount going through the whole process, from industry standards down to how do you source components and make sure theyre not end of life  so we only deal with manufacturers; we dont deal with in between traders, he adds.Theyve built and shipped 1,300 Pi-Tops so far  with another 2,000due to beshippedin time forChristmasand rolling production of the laptopset to startnext year.Were currently negotiating some large global distribution agreements. That should be in place quite soon I hope, he adds. The first batch of Pi-Tops was 1,300 laptops. Well be making ten times that amount next year at least.Pi-TopCEED vs Kano kitThere are now a LOT ofinteresting devices and services in the learn-to-code space. More than enough to turn into a Gift Guide listicle for peoplewanting toinspire kids with an educational computing/electronics gizmo, for example. But despite the crowded characterof the space, Lozanoreckons Pi-TopCEED still has an edge over rivals.For example, he arguesits better value than (also) London-based, Pi-powered learn-to-code computer kitKano, noting that the full $135 (post-crowdfunding) retail price for the Pi-TopCEED will undercut the cost of theKano kit ($100) plus itsadd-on 10.1in screen kit ($130)  sobuyers will begetting a desktop Piwith a largerscreen for close to half the price of the Kano alternative.Another differentiating factor, as Lozano tellsit, isafocus on teaching real computing  so the CEEDUniverse environment is aimed at getting kids coding in Python, rather than just fiddling around withdrag-and-drop prefabricated code blocks. (Although, that said, Kanos learning environment is also tiered  so its possible to graduate from its visual drag-and-drop interface to making changes to actualcodetoo.)I think theres a big different between teaching primary level education and what we do  we teach pre-GCSE, GCSE and A-Level computing and engineering. So when youre playing the CEEDUniverse game youre actually learning  genuinely  how to code. Its not just play-play, adds Lozano.You start off with drag and drop style interfaces then you move on to pure text-based interface, for your coding elements. So, for example, when you build a robot in our game youre not just snapping together some red brick in Minecraft that doesnt make any sense in the real world Youre actually building a real robot. So the circuit board that you put together in the game  that is the circuit board that a Pi-Top robot works with.When you code that robot in the game, with our beta release of the game in early 2016, youre going to be able to import that code or just stream it straight to a robot and it will do it in real life.One thing Kano does have going for it at this point is significant VC backing  raising a $15 million Series Ain May this year. The Pi-Top team have much leaner resources at their disposal right now. Theyve been getting by with bootstrapping, crowdfunding and pre-orders, and some 150,000 in SEIS funding (plus a bit from Entrepreneur First, where the co-founders met) thus far  with Lozano and Dunwoodysurviving, in the early days, off a lot ofpasta and tomato sauce.Butthe team is set to slot a big funding piece in place soon too, according toLozano, so Kano will surely be keeping a close eye on these guys. Were just about to close on a much larger round  a seven-figure type size. With European investors, he tells TechCrunch.Its taken us a while to get to this point but with hardware companies I think you have to prove a lot more than software companies. But ultimately I actually think its a pretty good thing  because it makes you work that extra bit harder to make sure that all your processes are actually in place, in terms of everything youre making. And how you scale, he adds.