As part of thetransition to Googles new photo hosting and sharing service, Google Photos, launched this May, users of Googles older Picasa desktop software are now being prompted to upgrade to Google Photos Backup for savingtheir images toGoogles cloud storage. The changecould signal the beginning of a plan to migrate Picasa users over to the newer Google Photos web service.However, Google Photos Backup is a desktop uploader program only  its not a replacement for Picasas desktop software, which also features tools for organizing photos into albums, favoriting items, or filtering by photos or videos, and more.Noticed yesterday that a Google Photos Backup tool was suddenly installed after running Picasa on my machine. n3wjack (@n3wjack) July 22, 2015Picasa just got an update for uploading to @googlephotos. #FYI Dimitris Tzouris (@DimitrisTzouris) July 23, 2015Some Picasa users may have spotted thischange following a recent update delivered throughGoogles Software Update program, which is used to update and patch bugs inPicasa on the desktop, among other things. In the release notes for the automatically downloaded update, Googlesays that the new version (3.9.140) of Picasa includes Updates for Google Photos Release (details TBA).Following the installation of this update, Picasa users are then prompted to download and install Google Photos Backup the next time they launch their Picasa desktop software. Fortunately for those who still prefer the Picasa experience, the prompt can be dismissed for now by clicking on the No Thanks button, which allows you to continue to use Picasa as usual.Those who do click Get Google Photos Backup, though, are redirected to the apps download page on theGoogle Photos website. From here, they can choose to download the same desktop software uploader tool thats previously been available to Google Photos users. This app makes it easier to upload photos and videos stored on your computer,or from attached cameras and storage cards, into the Google Photos online service.For the time being, it doesnt look like Picasa on the desktop is actually being replaced by a Google Photos desktop app, though its certainly arguable that the time has come for Google to finally put Picasa to rest. Thatservice and its accompanying apps areolder, dated in both thierlook-and-feel and functionality, and dontinclude some ofGoogle Photos cooler tricks like its automated montage-building assistant, for example.Google today needs to better consolidate its photos experience for end users. For months following the release of Google Photos, it still featured photo storage via Google+ Photos  the photo uploading and sharing component toits social networking service, Google+. Only this week did the company announce that it would finally shut down Google+ Photos on the web, Android and iOS. Google even admitted that having multiple offerings is confusing to users in its announcement about this.But Google+ Photoshasnot been the only source of end user confusion. The company has alsostubbornly hungonto Picasa over the years as well, even as it rolled out upgraded experiences like Google+ Photos. And more recently, related to the closure of Google+ Photos, Google sent a letter to Google Apps administrators which said that they would have to enable Picasa Web Albums to continue sharing photos in Google Hangouts, afterthe shutdownof Google+ Photos.Which frankly, is just crazy.Googles muddledphoto strategy also included a dedicated Chromebook app, which is nowbeing dealt with, too. Back in summer 2013, Google launched a Google+ Photos application on Chromebook, but that app is being discontinued as of this week according to a note on the Chrome Web Store pageand an FAQ on Googles support site.(Actually, it no longer works as of July 21st, 2015, says Google). The Chromebook appusers are asked to move tophotos.google.com instead.Of course, there is still a lot of love out there for the Picasa brand and it has solidname recognition with a mainstream user base, which could explain why Google has hesitated to force a transition to Google Photos.But at some point, it doesnt make sense to spend the resources to maintain a dated and aging servicewhich duplicates much of thefunctionality in Googlesflagship Google Photosproduct. Despite the potential backlash from Picasa customers, its time for Google to bite the bullet and close Picasa for good. After all, the company has no problem shutting down services its users love, right?Update: According to a Google spokesperson, this is just about making it clear to Picasa users that they can backup all their photos and videos to Google Photos. They added that: Picasa remains a part of the overall photos offerings from Google.