Pinterest announced this morning its addingformer Amazon exec Michelle Wilson to its board of directors. Wilson has a background in global growth and talent acquisition, both of which are key areas of focus for the popular bookmarking service. Wilson was previously a senior executive for Amazon where she worked for 13 years, including in roles like General Counsel and Head of HR. She also has experience working with international, retail and content companies, which makes her a good fit for Pinterest.During her decade-plus at Amazon, Wilson worked closely with the companys board. She was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2001 and left the company in September 2012. Prior to Amazon, Wilson wasa partner at Perkins Coie LLP and a member of the firms executive committee.Pinterest is a treasured brand that helps people around world discover and do the things they love, Wilson said in a statement. Im passionate about working with companies with a global vision for improving peoples everyday lives, and look forward to working with Ben and team on this journey.The addition comes at a time when Pinterest is working to bring more international users to its service. According to leaked documents TechCrunch published last fall, the company hadbeen seeingits strongest growth outside of the U.S., accounting for 60 percent of new users. This includesfast-growing markets like the U.K., Japan, France, Germany and Brazil.More recently, the company publicly confirmed this trend, saying in April that more than half its users comefrom outside the U.S. According to a report from Fortune,Pinterest said that of its 100 million monthly active users, more than half werefrom overseas. This was up from 45 percent in September 2015.It also said that uses in Germany nearly tripled, while the user base in France, Brazil and Japan had doubled. Two-thirds of its new sign-ups this year have also come from outside the U.S.Thats why it makes sense that Pinterest would now add a board member with global growth expertise like Wilson. But it also helps that Wilson herself may understand Pinterests demographic. Like many Pinterest users, shesalso a parent.Wilson took time off following her departure from Amazon to fly toShanghai and adopt her 19-month-old daughter, then spent most of the next year bonding with her child, Pinterest noted when announcing this news.Wilson will join Pinterests current board membersBen Silbermann and early investors Jeff Jordan (of Andreessen Horowitz) and Jeremy Levine (of Bessemer Venture Partners).Pinterest is notthe only company where Wilson holds a board seat, Pinterestsaid. Shes also on the boards ofZendesk, Okta and Seattle PBS television affiliate KCTS 9. In addition, she advisesseveral startups in the retail, marketplace, logistics, financial, connected devices and healthcare spaces.