As part of a larger story about Pinterests Jumpstart program  a new experiment in its international expansion  I sat down with Pinterest co-founder Evan Sharp to talk about the company and its current goals.Our conversation wasnt just restricted to the companys international ambitions, though. We spoke at length about how Pinterest is structured internally, what theyre looking for and how they are thinking about the Apple Watch. I also had a chance to ask him about the current state of the tech industry and San Francisco.Below is a lightly edited transcript of ourconversation.TechCrunch:How would you describe Pinterest today?Evan Sharp:Ourpublic description, a visual bookmarking tool, tends toresonate with people. Thats why we use it. Whenwe talk to the tech press we tend to describe it as a company solving a discovery problem. But if you try to use that language with someonelearning Pinterest, they dont understand what youre talking about. Its like before people used Google, no one knew what a search engine was. If you go to market and say use a search engine, youd say, what the hell is that?TechCrunch: How does usage differ across platforms?Sharp:We like to say pins are objects, Theyre digital representations  every pin is a link. Link is a kind of browser term, but what were trying to say is behind almost all of the interesting and useful stuff on Pinterestis more information, and something you can do [with that information]. What you do with what youve saved changes depends on whichplatform you are on. On the larger screens, we see peoplespending longer session times and using power features. On the phone people do that as well, but there are more sessions, and they are shorter. We see people clicking through and browsing things they saved. The phone is really just a way to realize people do the things that theyare discovering rather than just findthem in our digital service.TechCrunch:Where does the Apple Watch fit in to all of this?Sharp:Ihavent used the [Apple Watch]; I just ordered one. I dont think the watch will be as transformative as the phone is for Pinterest  but, I could be wrong. Its just an extension of what you do with the phone in a more natural way. Apples proven to be really good at taking what were capable of withtechnology and making it useful and solve human problems. One trend we do see, as we develop more technology, the devices are more naturally ingrained in our lives every day. The watchis an extension of that. Instead of taking my phone out, its more natural to a human to look at a wrist.TechCrunch:How is Pinterest thinking about the new touch points on a device like the Watch, like force touch?Sharp:Ithink Werenotanxiouslyawaiting the next thing. Id love to have a skunkworks team thinking about the next device.The reasonwere not all over it is it takes a while for it to reach any scale, and thats important to our business. Therell be a natural point, say force touch comes out for the iPhone 7, that were thinking about the model on iOS. With iOS releaseswe rebuild our app, and I assume well do that with the next one. It may or may not take advantage of those new inputs.TechCrunch: When looking at the team in Japan, what are some of the big areas of focus there?Sharp:Weve senta team for the first time, theyve been there for four weeks now, and so were in the process of figuring that out. The biggest product thing for internationalis connecting you with local people, local content. Evenin the United Kingdom, when you save a recipe, its an American recipe, and so for the more actionable stuff it needs to be usable wherever you live. Thats obvious, but theres a lot of stuff to do at scale with how we serverecommendations.In terms of the user interfaceitself, we dont know yet. Visual imagery is a sort of useful language. Otherapps, like the clones of Pinterest in China (which there are a lot of), they do use different user-interfacepatterns. The languages in Japanand China are denser. There are subtle things we might change. But I dont see us fundamentally rethinking the value proposition of the app but, I mean, we may change our mind.TechCrunch: How does performance fit into this?Sharp:We think of speed as a feature; thats obvious. If its not fast, its not useful. Its not gonna work. Theres a point at which it cant get faster because of the laws of physics. Were already pretty fast internationally. I dont think thats gonna make or break us.Itsreally about whatwere doing tobuild awareness for people in places that have never heard of it.TechCrunch: What are some examples of that?Sharp: Right now were focused on the U.K., France, Germany, Japan and Brazil  Brazilsthe newest one. We dont really feel like we know whats unique to that market yet, but we have two people there now. Different countries are very different. Some countries are very mobile, some countrieshave poor Internet connectivity. Were in the Philippines, but its very different tech. Its not very mobile-saturated; its still very desktop web.Itscounterintuitive andhas to do with how mature the market is. Where we focus attention of the product needs to be tailored to what people are going to do.TechCrunch:How would you consider that in a place like Africa?Sharp:We havent really focused on Africa yet.TechCrunch: What does the internal conversation look like when you are looking at a new product or use case?Sharp:The process itself is very prototype-driven. Say we do a watch app; itll be a prototype-driven conversation.Wetake some of our top engineersthat are interested in the product, well have aconversation, and theyll build aprototype. I think thats how we get the best products.Theres this textbook way of building products where you identify a problem, build a strategy and go execute. But if you want greatness, you need to work from the people who are executing back to the strategy and vision to what youre building. People who deeply understand the tech capabilities and limitations, they shouldbe having theconversationof what the vision is. A prototype is a very rich way of understanding whats possible.TechCrunch: When youre sitting down to interview a potential candidate, what are you looking for?Sharp:Honestly,it hasnt changed, though weve gotten more confident and specific. There are hallmarks  they are really smart and they havepassion for technology and its capability. All that is kind of a given in [Silicon Valley]; this is a technological place. Whats specific to Pinterest,which might be moreinteresting, is our core company value is knitting. Itsour phrase to explain how we cross different disciplines and learneach others language to build things.We want employees teaching each other what they know. Were tying to build a company so each person can achieveat avery highlevel  were not just the engineeringcompany or the design company.TechCrunch: What are some of the last frontiers of the Internet that you have an eye on?Sharp:Right now weve worked on discoveryfor a few years; we feel weve made progress but we have so much more to do. It should be better and better, more personal, and were getting there. We serve 1.5 trillion recommendationsa year. Part of that is, we have to be sure that the Pinterest experiencefeels like this catalog thats hand-picked for you.Another part is actionability  I think theres just a world of info and APIsand stuff that we can build one day that takes all these visual bookmarks and makes them actionable things, and not just links. We did this partnership with Apple. Thats a template I think you can think about for where were taking pins, and one way well be evolving pins.Then of course I think theres always focus on growth  like the growth we talked about internationally.TechCrunch: How do you feel about the term growth hacking  not a fan?Sharp:No, I dont like the term.TechCrunch: What term would you use?Sharp: Making your product more useful and more relevant to people? I think growth teams are incredibly important and vital, but the danger of something with growth hackingis locally optimizing and making it 1 percent to 5 percent better. A product like Pinterest, if we start locally optimizing,were way behind. We need to be globally optimizing, rather than worrying about each little piece.TechCrunch:How does that fit into the way Pinterest is designed internally?Sharp:Theway were organized, we have a very capable growth team. Thats their job. The new userexperience, what happens and lands on Pinterest  we have to seriously think about how we make that on-boarding process seamless. There is a team that does work that way, but if you only work that way, thats a problem. We have a team on discovery, on saving for the first time, a team on pins, on making it more actionable, and theyre working in a holistic way. We have to consider how to take Pinterest and evolve it into something more useful rather than making it complicated.TechCrunch:So how do you guys think about the onboarding process, given some other apps out there that have been having issues?Sharp:Its tough  one of our country managersdescribed it, there are a little bit of apps that are like junk food. Pinterest isntjunk food; Pinterestis learning to code. Its fulfilling, its useful, its more complicated than clickbait. When we onboard, we have to kind of incept you to why discovery is kind of useful for your life. Pinterest is a tool thats so broadly useful and relevant, teaching people how they can use it is one of the most important steps.TechCrunch: What do you think of platformslike Refinery29?Sharp: Iwill say, it seems like, in this new world of apps, things are centralizing pretty quickly. If the Internet was a library, the apps are television. There are afew channels with a lot of people. Most are social, the companies that are not those core TVchannels but creating interesting stuff need to find a way to plug in.Its a metaphor  the browser web was very hyperlinked, it was interconnected, there was room for far more, and people used way more websitesthan they will apps. Now, its just a new world. People are spending all their time in the top 20 apps, most are about socializing, messaging friends and such.We see Chinasahead in a lot of ways in that example. The apps are all big social apps. Those apps are tryingto eat up other apps or websites.TechCrunch: Like something like WeChat?Sharp:WeChatsbuilt all theseother apps; its because they have the eyeballs. Its hard to compete. If youre a lifestyle pub, not a coreTVchannel, you have to leverage the capability of those apps to survive.TechCrunch: How do you feel about entering markets where there is some hostility or major competition?Sharp: We dont think about competition very much. We dont really have a lot of direct competitors. I mean, in China there are a bunch of guys that cloned us. We picked the places we picked becausetheyre mature markets, theyre countriesthat lead their regionsculturally. It feels like, if we can get the markets were focused in, well be in a good position to turnour attention to new ones.TechCrunch: Is that because of some cultural overlap?Sharp: France and the U.K. are the same way. Japan is interesting, for example, because they lead their region culturally.TechCrunch:And France?Sharp:Wereactually doing really well in France. You would probably expect that given the things they value  food, drink, fashion.TechCrunch:International is going to be bigger than the U.S. at some point, right?Sharp: We dont talk about numbers at all; we shouldprobably start doing that. But when I look out in thefuture, the majority of our users will be outside of the U.S. There are a lot of people outside the U.S.TechCrunch:As Pinterest goes forward, do you see an opportunity for more native content on the platform? Say, a recipe that exists only on Pinterest?Sharp:We dont do that today, I could imagine us doing that in the future. It would make sense; the mobile web is a really bad experience, but its not something were goingto talk about right now. A Pinterest representativelater told me that about 2 percent of all content is user-generated.TechCrunch: How many hours do you spend working on Pinterest every week?Sharp: Ispend all week onwork, basically from when I wake up to when I go to bed. On the weekendI try to disconnect, and maybe drive somewhere inCalifornia.TechCrunch:What do you think of the current state of San Francisco, relating to things like the housing crisis?Sharp: Ithink it sucks. Its just tough. Its a tough problem. I think the tech industry moves so fast that since Ivelived here, the changehas been and still isso dramatic. Itjust moves faster than governmentsare capable of moving. Were in this lag time where there are new problems, and its gonna take yearsto address them, because thats the speed of consensus.For now its tough, and Ifeel bad for people priced out. I dont know what to change  this city is also a hotbed of innovation technology, and other cities would die to have our problems. We should all feelvery lucky to work in this industry  one rich with money, really impactful and fun. Its the best qualitiesof a job in one.ButI think its a complicated situation, and all I can really do day-to-day is think how we make Pinteresta positive force in the city. Well create problems, probably ones we dont even realize were creating, but hopefully well solve some of those problem. Were still a little early tospend time outside of the business; were a bit superstitious about doing stuff outside of the work until we have a self-sustainingbusiness given were venture capital-backed with someone elses money.But as we mature as a company, well do a lot of stuff in the community, and hopefully not on a surface level but on a real way.TechCrunch: How do you think about that when you look at hiring people at Pinterest?Sharp:Itturns out you can hire nice people who are really effective. Theresthis idea in [Silicon Valley]that aggressiveness equals effectiveness, but thats not true. It can be good or bad. Wehire nice people who are very empathetic and self aware. Its a good company  Im kind of biased, though.TechCrunch: Why do you feel that, in tech in particular, that the industry is kind of intolerant of letting older companies die gracefully?Sharp: Fostering truly talented creativity and building a scaled organization is a diametrically opposed way of managing. I think the tech industry has been dominated by engineers, and thatsnot bad, but its a very operational thing even though it can be creative. Thereare few large companiesthat maintain creativitybecausethe language of business is an objective language.Unfortunately most of the best products in the world  just like movies and entertainment  that spark in the beginning is subjective. Design is a really good example. Designers and the companies they work with, they tend to wear objective language clothing. Thatshow they interface with other people. They hide the subjective becausethey dont know how to talk about it without coming across as un-rigorous. The reality is most of the best stuff is a combinationof subjective and objective ways of working and thinking, andits almost impossible to maintain that way of working in a largeorganization.When I got into managing this company, Iread the essential management books. And all of them were about building widgets atscale. Its not that this stuff is bad. Its an incredibly importantway of working. You cant build things without that, but you have to make room for creativityandtalent and ways of working that are subjective. Thatsmy point, and it sounds soft becausewe dont talk about it. Thatswhy big companies cant survive. Maybe I dont know what Imtalking about,but maybe I do.TechCrunch: Where do you look for inspiration?Sharp: Im the most inspired by other creatives at scale. Iminspired by Pixar, Jony Ive, those are the companies and people who do something I admire at scale. Those companies represent what I want to be. Not that were gonna be just like those companies, but the waythey workat scale and the brand they create, thats the brand I want to have. I think we do have it, but we need to scale it in a way thats healthy.