If youre a startup, youve heard of TechCrunchs Startup Alley and the Battlefield. Its a big part of our TechCrunch Disrupt conference. Hundreds of startups from all over the world vie for a spot on the main stage or on our showroom floor, to be perused by investors, reporters, and general attendees. Oh, and TechCrunch TV cameras.Every year we want to make each Disrupts Battlefield and Startup Alley more diverse, interesting, and bigger than last year. TechCrunch Disrupt London is coming up later this year and Im on the hunt for companies from Europe.Office Hours, if you arent already familiar with it, is an easy and painless way for you to pitch and to get feedback in some lightning-fast sessions. Plus, its ideal for companies that are in stealth mode that want feedback on their chances at Battlefield.Ive heard a lot about Lisbon in recent weeks, so Im heading there this Wednesday. This will be the first of a number of Office Hours sessions Ill hold in various cities.If youd like to apply to pitch, please fill out this form.  You will be emailed if you are successful at gaining a meeting.If you DO NOT get an email then please assume you were unsuccessful. Meetings will be 10 minutes long for this initial introduction to your company.Heres more about TechCrunch Disrupt:Held on December 7 and 8, (and preceded by a weekend Hackathon), Disrupt is one of the most anticipated technology conferences of the year.Well start each day with panels and one-on-one discussions featuring TechCrunch writers and editors, special guest speakers, leading venture capitalists and entrepreneurs addressing the issues of the day. In the afternoon, we host the Startup Battlefield competition which culminates in six finalists taking the stage at the end of the event for a shot at winning the Disrupt Cup, and taking away a 30,000 check.Apply here for the chance to buy 2-for-1 tickets to Disrupt at a discounted rate. These limited tickets will be released soon.You can grab Startup Alley tickets here, where you can showcase your startup.And if you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsors@techcrunch.com.In addition to onstage panel sessions and fireside chats, Disrupt will also feature Startup Battlefield and Startup Alley to London.Startup Battlefield competitors pitch their companies live and onstage to innovators, investors and influencers in the tech community. TechCrunch identifies emerging companies to demo and compete for a prize of 30,000 (42,000) and the coveted Disrupt Cup, won previously by Mint.com, Yammer, Fitbit, and Dropbox, among others.The Startup Battlefield will select around 30 brand new startups to launch on stage in front of a panel of top VCs and other founders, coverage on TechCrunch and the winner gets the 40,000 prize. Startup Alley offers another way for early-stage companies to gain exposure with a setup that encourages both exhibiting and networking, and provides high visibility. Roughly 100 startups comprise Startup Alley with around 50 new companies demoing on Monday and 50 demoing on Tuesday.