Pivotal has a couple of new friends with big wallets. Today it announced that Ford and Microsoft were joining EMC, VMware and GE as investment partners on a massive $253 million Series C investment with a whopping $2.8 billion valuation.Its not a coincidence that Pivotal has been working closely with Ford over the last year to help it in its own transformation from a car company to what Ford VP and CIO Marcy Klevorn called a mobility company driven by software development. Klevorns company is contributing $182.2 million of the round and Klevorn is joining Pivotals board as part of the deal.One of the first projects to come out of the collaboration between Pivotal and Ford was the recently released FordPass, which Ford is billing as super innovative. In reality, it allows you to monitor your car from a smart phone app, access car sharing services and find parking spaces, among other things. While these are all useful services they arent innovative in the true sense because theyve been done in various guises before. What isnew is the programming methodology that went into developing FordPass, and Ford is hoping that by making this substantial investment in Pivotal, itwill be able to continue to build on this initialsuccess.Unlike many companies born with the help of venture capital, Pivotal was launched three years ago by EMC and VMware  with a 10 percent investment from GE  as a kind of disruptive company that could move much more quickly than either of these publicly traded behemoths could on their own. Pivotal, which has now raised $358 million provides customers with thetechnology and a programming methodology for changing the way they develop products. The main idea isbringing a digital mindset and software design sense to companies that have operated in a more traditional fashion.Among its key technology products are Pivotal Cloud Foundry, an open source Platform as a Service offering that enables customers (and others) to build cloud applications on top of it and its Big Data Suite, a set of tools for processing and analyzing big data sets.It worth noting thatPivotalsprimary investors, EMC and VMware are ensnared in the $67 billion acquisition by Dell and all that entails, but it is an independently run company and all indications are it will remain that way. Just the other day when Michael Dell announced a new name for the combined Dell-EMC organizations, he indicated that Pivotal would continue on withits own branding.Therewere reports last November suggesting that Pivotal could IPO early this year. As it turns out, its been a slow year for tech IPOs with Dell (coincidentally or not) being the lone companyto venture out,spinning offSecureWorks in an IPO last month.The company still plans to IPO eventually says Pivotal president and COO Bill Cook, but with this kind of cash in pocket the companycan easily afford to wait for the market to get a bit more friendly. For now, its doing quite well boasting that among its clients are7 of the top 10 U.S. Banks, 3 of the top five autocompanies (including Ford, of course), and five of the top 10 telecommunications companies.With this cash, Pivotal could expand its product development, hire engineers and developers and move into foreign markets. Cook was pretty closed-mouthed about details, saying that it was likely the company would expand beyond the 2000 employees it currently has, but just how many that would involve in the coming year or so and how it would be distributed among various departments and offices, he wasnt willing to say.The biggest question here is how well this methodology will scale. It has worked reasonably well in helping large organizations at least begin transforminginto digitally driven companiesto this point, but whats not clear is how this will translate as the company grows and has to make this process workfor an increasingly large customer base.Whatever happens, theycertainly have the cash to try some experiments, and apply their own methods in-house and see what works and what doesnt as they become a much larger organization over the next couple of years.