 Meet Plen2, an adorably cute humanoid robot thats small enough to stand on yourdesk. This botcan bust a fewmoves, such asdancing, carrying small objects and even copying human movements (when used in conjunction with additionalsensor suittech).Its also open source and 3D printable  or thats the plan for Plen, theJapanese company behindthe prototype, which is hoping a little customization will spark the beginnings of a beautiful friendship betwixt humans and humanoids.Theteam iscurrently raising crowdfunds onKickstarterto get Plen2to market, and have passed their $40,000 target with another 43 days left of their campaign to run  so have enoughmoney pledged to turn their open-source robot dreamsinto a printable commercial reality.Pay $499 and youll get the electronics (control boards, servomotors, accessories, etc.) and 3D parts data to 3D print your own Plen2. Or else you can pay for the full kit, costing from $699, for DIY assembly. Or $799 for a pre-assembled Plen2. The firm is aiming to ship kits and bots to backerslater this year, starting inAugust or November (depending on which kit/bot youve ordered).Naohiro Hayaishi, whos in charge of product development for Plen, says the company developed its original Plen botin 2005, but last year started working on the follow up.Plen2 is smaller, and the big push hereis on open sourcing itshardware so people with access to 3D printers will be able to print their own parts  and feel more connected to therobot, given theyll havehad a hand in building it.Partly this is about creating an education tool, saysNaohiro, noting that the company is in the process of creating an educational program around Plen2 with various partners.But the grander  and more socially intriguing  goal here is to humanize robotics technology.Our aim is to open up the relationship between humans and technology through printable and open-source robot kit, is how the team putsit on their Kickstarter campaign.Going down acrowdfundingroute is thus also aboutPlen reaching out to a community of humans willing to adopt its bots  and take the technology to heart.We want people know about and join to the process for making robot. This is also the reason why we havepreferred the concept of open-source and printable, saysNaohiro.Plen2 can move smoothly, same as Plen1. This is the most important thing for us, since we believe that robot must not scare people, he adds.Its certainly a cute idea, and one thatflies in the face of well-worn robotdystopiatropes. Its also no accident that this is a Japanese project, given the domesticpush to developrobotics forcaring functions. Japanese telecom giant SoftBank has, for instance, been developing a robot thats apparently capable of learning and expressing emotions.The country has an aging population which is one reason why there has been a domesticpush to accelerate social acceptance of robots and robotics technology. And why Plen has optedfor full on kawaii with its bots.Whats left to do at this point to get Plen2 to market? It needs to be redesigned so that its injection molding can be mass produced, according toNaohiro, and also to ensure its parts are structured so they can be viably 3D printed. The team is also working on developing iOS and Android apps for remote-controlling Plen2.Plen2canapparently operate for 20 to 30 minutes on a single charge. Cute form and function aside, a limited battery life remains a very solid way ofreassuring humansthat robots arent really so scary.Well, not until they figure out how to walk to the power outletand charge themselves