Travel is fun and glamorous and all, but we all know what packing your rucksackand heading for the Amazon is really about: Making your friends and family a deep shade of jealous green. Polarsteps just raised a seed round tocontinue developing itsautomated travel blogging app, to make the jealousy-machinerun just that tiny bit smoother.As you travel, your travel log starts taking shape.The Amsterdam-based company raised a modest500,000 ($563k) in seed funding from Silver Point Ventures and TMG last week. The funds will be used to bring its iOS app (currently in public beta) to feature-completion, and to launch an Androidversion.The concept is simple: Schedule the times youre traveling and your app does the rest. It checks your location from time to time, and publishes its findings to a webpage so your friends and family can follow along with your globetrotting. Asyou add photographs and locations, your travel log populates itself. The prototype for the app was tested on an epic motorcycle road trip from Amsterdam to Cape Town. The resultingtravel log is impressive, and is the source of asevere case of itchy feet in your correspondent.Polarsteps is optimized for travel, which means that you dont need data roaming or cellcoverage to let the app do its thing: GPS works independently of mobile reception and the app synchronizes its data wheneveryou hit a pocket of cell reception  or when you log in to the Wi-Fi at the hotel at the end of a long, dusty day of travel.The app is currently in public beta, and everyone can useit, saysKoen Droste, the companys co-founder. He clarifies that the Beta label reflects that the appcurrently hasa limited feature-set and that it signals that Polarstepsisunder active development.The Polarsteps platform includes an iPhone / Apple Watch app and a web-app. An Android version is coming this summer, the company says.The idea for Polarsteps came toNiek Bokkers, one of the companysfounders, when he setout to sea on a sailing peregrination back in 2013. To keep his family in the loop on his location and likelihood of still being alive, he created an app that automatically updated his loved oneson his location. His friends and familys reaction convinced him that perhaps there would be a wider audience  and the idea for an iOS-based version was born.In addition to locations and photos, Polarsteps tracks a ton of other data, including distance traveled, countries visited and more.The investment round this month means were now going full steam ahead on an Android version. We hope to launch it this summer, says Droste.The app is free to download and available now on iOS.