U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron has been weatheringa Twitter storm of mockery for comments he made yesterday in which he appeared to suggestitwould be the intention of a future Conservative government to ban strong encryption.Are we going to allow a means of communication between people which even in extremis, with a signed warrant from the Home Secretary personally, that we cannot read? he said in a public speech. No we must not. The first duty of any government is to keep our country and our people safe.Internet security experts chipped in en masse on social media to point out thepyrrhic folly of Cameronthinking hecan banencryption, while others noted the heightened hypocrisy of a politician using last weeks terrorattacks in Paris as a foil to attempt to undermine citizens digital privacy rights at home.TechCrunch understands alarm at the potential implications of Cameronscomments evenextended to the U.K.s VC investment community  which makes sense, given that Internetbusinesseswouldnt be able to function without encryption. So in a move that will shock precisely no one, theback channel back-peddling has begun.Downing Street sources saidthe PMs words had been misinterpreted, and that he was not, in fact, singling outencryption, or any particular Internet companies, for a ban.Although another governmentsourcedeclined to confirm to TechCrunch that a future Conservative government would not be seeking to ban encryption when we asked directly.So the Tories are evidently not committing to endingall encryption-banning rhetorical outbursts in future.The game being played here is not just with popular opinion on the election campaign trail  ahead of the U.K.s General Election thisMay, as the Toriescack-handedlytry to capitalize on fear of terrorism by tilting at digital windmills. Its also an attempt to apply politicalpressure on foreign ownedInternet companies to provideU.K. security services with backdoors intotheir services.Last Novemberthe incominghead of the U.K.s GCHQ spy agency madea direct public appeal to U.S. Internet companies to co-operate with government counter terrorism efforts and hand over data on users when asked.Yesterday Cameron was evidently trying to speed that same plough. However if, as government sources are (sort of)suggesting, he does not in fact have an intention to ban encryption, but is hoping that Internet companies will agree to put backdoors into services themselves, there are undoubtedly some digital services that U.K. spookswill not be able to peek into  i.e. those that use end-to-end encryption or companies thatrefuse to co-operate with requests to installbackdoors  and, really, there is not a whole lotU.K. politicianswillbe able to do about that.That said,the Prime Ministerhas previously committed a future Tory government to re-introducemore comprehensivepowers of digital comms data capture, and to extend the emergency surveillancelegislation (DRIPA)that was rushed through the U.K. parliament last year. Under DRIPA,companies providing a service to the U.K. are technically required to provide access to data.The difficulty(for government) comes in trying to enforce such a legal requirement if a company does not have a physical presence in the U.K.And even where a company does have a presence, no U.K. government is going to wantto be seen banning mainstream apps. Thats nevera good look  unless youre heading upa totalitarian regime.Indeed, government sources were very keen to stressthat it is not Camerons intention to banInternet companies in the U.K. They added that the government is working closely with Internet companies to ensure compliance with DRIPA  describing the approach it is taking, led by a special envoy, Sir Nigel Sheinwald,appointed last September, as co-operative.At the time of Sheinwalds appointment the government noted:A number of overseas companies have asserted that their ability to work with the UK government is being severely constrained by international conflicts of jurisdiction. For example, where they think they have a British law saying that they should share data, and an American law saying that they shouldnt. So we intend to appoint a senior diplomat to work with America and other countries to address these concerns and ensure that lawful and justified transfer of information across borders takes place to protect our peoples safety and security.Whats the long and the short of all this?Camerons non-specific anti-encryptiondrum banging is not worth the paper it wasnt written on.AndInternet companies should definitely expect a lot morerhetoric about how they risk aidingand abetting terrorists if they dont give in to U.K. government requests to perforate the security of their users.So, really,expect a whole lot moretilting at windmillsbefore this digital debate is done.Stronger encryption is growing not diminishing, so the challenge, as U.K. government sources putit, thatstrong encryptionposes to security services digital surveillance programsis not going away.Politics meet technology.