F.lux, the popular color-adjusting application for computers and mobile devices that reduces blue light emissions for better nighttime usage, has now arrived on Android. Unfortunately, the application (for now) requires users to have a rooted phone in order to take advantage of its functionality. The release is notable, however, as it comes at a time when the major platform makers are building in nighttime modes in their operating systems, includingiOS 9.3s Night Shift,Amazon Fire tablets Blue Shade and Android Ns Night Mode.That leaves some question about F.luxs future in this increasingly mobile world.The idea with these optional brightness and hue-adjusting features is to provide users with a way to use their devices at night without disrupting their sleep patterns. Numerous studies have shown that blue light keeps peoples pineal gland from releasing melatonin  the hormone thatreduces alertness and signals to the body its time to sleep. By gazing into our phones and tablets after hours, were screwing around with those natural rhythms.The makers of F.lux have been working on solving this problem for years, initially on computers. Its app, designed back in 2009, today works on Mac OS X, Windows, Linux andjailbroken iOS devices.Unfortunately, F.lux has had a hard time making the mobile transition due to restrictions from the platform makers.For example, last November it released an open-source version for iOS that could be side-loaded onto your device without jailbreaking, but it had to pull it down, as it violated Apples Developer agreement. With Apples debut of Night Shift, it has begged the company to reconsider letting it back into the App Store.Similarly, the Google Play version of the app is not one that just anyone can install and run  you also would need to have administrative control over your device via rooting.F.lux refers to this current releaseas a preview thats still in beta quality.In addition, the app wont run on all phones  many Samsung Galaxy 5.x devices wont work, for example. Instead, youll need a rooted Lollipop or Marshmallow (5.x or 6.x) device to have a good shot, though some rooted KitKat (4.x) devices may also work. The company is asking users to let them know in the comments in its forums about what works and what does not.As with other versions of its application, F.lux will allow you to control the time of day you want to switch over to a different mode, and which color temperature scheme you want to use.However, given its requirement for rooted devices, it may have a hard time finding a wide audience on Android, where there are alreadya number of third-party applicationsthat claim to offer blue light reduction. While many of these make their changes by using color overlays, novice users may not know the difference. F.lux requires root because it makes changes to the color temperature at a systemlevel, for increased accuracy.F.lux is a free download on Google Play.