Postmates, which is now completing 1 million deliveries a month, is digging in deeper to the e-commerce space with the launch of Postmates Plus Unlimited, a $9.99 per month subscription service that gets you free deliveries on all Plus orders over $30, minus the service fee. Plus merchants include American Apparel and thousands of other partners in the Postmates preferred merchant program. By the end of the year, Postmates will have 10,000 Plus merchants across 40 U.S. markets.Postmates Plus Unlimited kind of sounds like Amazon Prime, amirite?When asked about competing with Amazon, Postmates VP of Growth Kristin Schaefer told methat Postmates has been very anti-Amazon from the very beginning. At the same time, Postmates sees Amazon as its biggest competitor.The goal is to make local inventory thats offline and even online really accessible in every city, Schaefer said. Thats very counter to Amazons mission with warehouses.In the last 15 months, Postmates has driven over $350 million in sales to local economies. She went on to say that while Postmates is anti-Amazon in strategy, the company recognizes that Amazon runs a brilliant operation.Over years, weve done a lot of time looking at Prime and trying to understand it and thinking about how the model can work for us, Schaefer said. Its been in the works for a long time.Ultimately, Postmates Plus Unlimited is part of the companys larger goal to make the service accessible to everyone, anda servicethat people can use frequently, Schaefer said.The first step in that larger goal wasrolling out flat rate merchants offering deliveries for $2.99. Postmates Plus Unlimited is the next major step in offering an affordable means toaccessingitems from local merchants.In order not to lose money, Postmates is limiting the free deliveries to ordersover $30, which make up about 50% of the orders on Postmates. Its also only offering free deliveries from Plus merchants, who pay Postmates anywhere from 15-30% of revenue in exchange for better placement and cheaper delivery fees to customers, which translates to more volume for the merchants. Over time, the take rate may increase, Schaefer said. Right now, the average take rate from merchants is 20%. Meanwhile, the subscription model makes Postmatesfleet operate more efficiently since theres a higher density of orders going to certain merchants.Deliveries from Plus merchants account for almost 40% of Postmates delivery volume.Postmates is not the only on-demand delivery company offering subscriptions. Last year inJanuary, Sprigintroduced unlimited meal deliveries as part of a $10 a month plan called Sprig Go. Sprig competitor Munchery also has a similar service, charging $39 a year for free deliveries.To date, Postmates has raised over $138 million in funding. The company is on track to be profitable sometime next year, Postmates CEO Bastian Lehman (pictured above) said at the Startup Grind conference in February.Meanwhile,Re/Code reported earlier this month,investment bank Qatalyst Partners isapparentlyworking with Postmates to advise it around fundraising or a potential sale.