In thesepost-Snowden times a lot has changed. Big picture stuff, like politicians legislating to curtailintelligence agency capabilities(or not). And smaller stuff. Like a post-quantum encryption startupno longer being laughed out ofmeetings when they pitch their business.While U.K.-basedPQ Solutionsistechnically a startup the team has actually been plugging away on their post-quantum encryption and data access softwarefor somesix years. The underlying encryption algorithms theyre using date back even further, to the 1970s  aka the (established but not widely used)McEliese cryptosystem.Whats changed nowis the climate around data security, says PQ CEO and co-founder Andersen Cheng. So the notion of selling encryption thats intendedto befutureproofed againstcracking byquantum computers now, before anyone has built a quantum computer, doesnt sound quite so crazy.We have been laughed at by all the VCs, saysCheng.People were still laughing at us up to 12 months ago. People were showing us the door. I have been shouted at by people saying stop scaremongering; its science fiction, it will never happen. But the whole world has changed completely in the last seven, eight months. Because now Google has come out saying its building [a quantum computer]. Microsoft is saying its building one. All the good and bad countries are building one.[The McEliese cryptosystem] came out at the same as [the widely used encryption system]RSA, in 1978. It was never adopted because during that time desktops did not even have hard disks. So people thought theres no way a computer could crack RSA so no one adopted the McEliese system. And it also has some drawbacks. Now we have three patented improvements on top to make it truly NP-hard. And semantically secure, he adds.The original McEliese system was NP-hard, was post-quantum secure, but it was not semantically secure. So there was a slight bias that people could guess when you look at a digit. The holy grail is you cant tell whether its right or wrong. But the original parameters you could still have a slight bias there. So thats something that we have got rid of.Cheng sums upPQs informal mission as:protect the worlds information before its too late. Itsnot just intending to sell itsMcEliese-hardened post-quantum encryption; its aiming to offera security layer that can be applied in multiple ways, across different productsand industry sectors.This means a portfolio ofproducts, including a secure messaging app called PQ Chat, a video selfie authentication tech for detecting (and thus preventing) man-in-the-middle attacks, and a key splitting technology for managing access to data via consensus authentication (i.e. requiring multiple key fragment holders to agreeto anydecryption). Itscore post-quantum thinking runs through all the products, coupled with afocus ondata access and compliancefor itstarget enterprisecustomers.We have a number of these ideas and products, saysCheng.Our company is beyond just encryption. Whatever we want to develop now  whether its products or solutions for customers  it has to be PQ. Because otherwise theres really no need, or no point doing it anymore. Because when [quantum]computers come in it will just wipe everything out.Hesees particular (and timely) potential for thekey splitting technology  which PQcalls Quorum  to offer a way forward forgovernments nowgrappling publicly with maintaining overreachingsurveillance capabilities as adoption ofstrong encryption grows. Deliberately weakeningencryptionisnt so tenable when your actions are no longercloaked in perfect secrecy. (Not to mention also being loudlycondemned asstupidity.)Athird way for thissurveillance vs security loggerheads could be to usesidedoors, arguesCheng  meaning a system whereby encrypted data can only be decryptedwhenmultiple stakeholders, who each hold a piece of a fragmentedkey, all agree that access shouldbe granted. For example key piecescould beheld by the service operator, the regulator, a court that signs off surveillance requests, the government agency wanting the information, and even the account holder themselves.Consensus authentication would offeran alternative togovernment-mandated backdoors in Internet services. Soinstead of asingle master key that poses privacy or data compliance risks byallowing unchecked access, decrypted data can bemanaged and safeguardedby third party access being locked tomulti-stakeholder consensus.It would address that master key problem, says Cheng.Our solutions can work for the government. The NSA came out the other week saying they do not want a golden key. They want to encourage the regulators and the industries and even the account holders all to have a fragment. So its very similar to what were saying.What were doing is to translate the physical thinking that the police cannot come to visit me in my house at will. But if theyhave a court warrant then I have to comply, he adds.He also argues that existing multi-factor authentication systems that do not split up each of the factors themselves remain at risk fromhacking, since the entire biometric (for instance) is still in play and thus thathoneypot of data remainsvulnerable to theft/compromise. Whereas fragmenting everyauthenticating factormeansyou dont have a complete picture [so] no quantum computer can crack it.If you have a normal multi factor, multi key, they are still the three keys that people can try. If we only have fragments no one in the world can recover it, including myself, he notes.Its this fragmentation which is the key  which is the solution to the problem.PQ is not the first or onlycompany to come up withkey splittingas a way totighten thesecurity screw butCheng arguesitsPQs own multi factored approach  and itsfocus on integratingits thinking with business processes thatmakes it stand out here. People already do some kind of key splitting on the server level, and they use hardware  and all the other stuff  but what we do is to blend it into a business flow, which is entirely different.The startuphas just been through the Barclays TechStars fintech bootcamp program in London, presenting at their latest Demo Day today. Thus far, the team has been bootstrapping the business, using money raised by two of the co-founders from a prior startup they sold, as well astaking in a small amount ofinvestment from four super angels. Its now aimingto raise between 1 million and 2 million more to expand the team and follow through on all the calls Cheng says its getting as security escalatesup the enterprise agenda.For most startups they would be now at the stage of searching for clients, and trying to sign them and so on. Butwe have been inundated with enquiries These are all very big firms. We just dont have enough people to follow up and follow through. So we have a slightly different problem from other startups.On the competition front, in the messaging space Cheng names Silent Circle and Wickr as rivalsbut again he argues theres adifference ofemphasis, with PQssales pitch being b2b from the start, multi-sector focused, and concerned more broadly withdata access compliance needs, controls and processes, rather thanjust aiming to offerprivacy peace of mind viahighly robustencryption.If you talk to all the banks and insurers its all compliance they are after. Its all about security and privacy and compliance. Its not about secrecy, he says. We are actually offering a complete solution for enterprises. So this is why I would want to claim we are unique in that respect. All the other companies only sell just one product. They do not sell a solution.We have spent a long time working in banking, insurance and all the other sectors and we focus a lot on the processes, in order to offer solutions.Despite this enterprisefocus,PQs intention is not to become a managed services software house. Its aiming to scale up by choosingwhat Cheng terms ananchor client for each sector and customizing its softwarefor that business, before going on to sell a standardized solution  derived from the work with the core client  to other companiesin thesector.In banking, PQ is workingwithBarclays as its anchor client, having gained high level access to the bank via the accelerator program; in insurance Cheng says ithas a large company selected although hes not disclosing who at this point; in law it has a Magic Circle law firm. It is also working with certain bitsof the U.K. government (as you mightsuspect) and doing trials with NATO. PQ also counts the formertechnical director of the NSA, Brian Snow, as a technical advisor.In terms of scaling up from here in on, PQ is focusing on four main sectors.In a years time I want to have done something for each of my anchor clients in each critical sector  so at least one client with some solutions in banking, some in legal, some in insurance. And some in cloud, in the cloud provision as well, says Cheng. Healthcare we can tackle but that really is Its a huge market but itshuge bureaucracy there.Chengsays NHS Trusts have been making enquiries aboutPQs software  specifically seeking a fix for the problem of A&E staff WhatsApping each other as a path of least resistance option to try to quickly locate specialists or medicines. There is potential in using something like PQ Chat for the medical world, so they can at least transmit data securely. These were genuine requests from the Trusts. But we just havent got time to address. But I think in a years time I will be very happy if I can really address the banking, insurance and legal.So there you have it: building a post-quantum encryption business that spans multiple verticals is one thing. Willingly walking intotheentangling embrace of reams of red tape quite another.