Microsoft has been busysnatching upstartups to fill out its mobile apps portfolio, and it looks like it could be buyingone more. According to multiple sources,Prismatic an app that recommends news articles to users based on what their connectionsare reading and liking  is on the block, and Microsoft is the front runner to getit.Its not clear what stage talks are at presently. Microsoft is one ofseveral large companies that are talking to the startup, with the most serious interest otherwise coming from Apple and Yahoo.Google and Facebook have also showedearly interest. Another source resolutely namesMicrosoft as the final buyer, and a price:$30 million.According to CrunchBase, Prismatic has raised $15 million to date, with investors including Accel Partners, Jim Breyer, Yuri Milner and Javelins Alex Gurevich.We have contacted both Microsoft and Prismatic about these rumors. Microsoft declined to comment for this article, and we have not hadany replies frommultiple attempts to contact Prismatic. Microsoft has made just over 143 acquisitions to date.Prismatics potential sale, and the interest from big-name buyers, speaks bothto some of the challenges news aggregation startupsfacethese days, but alsothe bigger opportunity for Prismaticstechnology.Prismatic was co-founded by Bradford Cross (who is CEO) and Aria Haghighi (who left and currently works for Apple), both machine learning and natural language processing specialists. The idea behind Prismatic was to create a platform that couldprovideaccurate recommendations of content, using social signals and your own usage of the app to feed its algorithms.The main product out of this tech has been itsconsumer-focused news reader, made for iOS, Android and the web, whichrecommends stories you might like based on interests that you specify (e.g., food, iPhone news, China), the interests of your friends, and how you interact with the links it delivers to you  do youclick; do you share, save or discard; do you comment?That product has had rave reviewsfrom users, but, as one source describes it, the prospect for the company has been a little tricky. The crux of the problem: getting a mass of users interested in using a news-reading app as a way of getting new information.Its not clear theres enough of a news junkie audience to sustain [those] companies by consumer Internet standards, the source says, a predicament that likely also impactsits competitors, such as Flipboard. Its also not clear that even a beautiful, relevant product can tear people away from social networks as the primary distribution channel for that kind of content. People turn to Twitter/Facebook for reasons stronger and stickier than news.Looking at the downloads for Prismatic over the last two years, according to App Annie, the company started from a very healthy position in the top 10 of iPhone news apps in the U.S., but over time its iPhone apphas plummeted, and as of February 28 was at 758. Its overall ranking never managed to break 200.It launched on Android last year but has only seen between 5,000 and 10,000 downloads.No sources have mentioned that Prismatic could raise money instead, although of course this might end up being a possibility, too, despite the lack of traction on the current product. As we understand it, several employees have left the company in the last period, in addition to the co-founder. They include Jenny Finkel, who was its head of engineering and now works for Mixpanel.On the other hand, the potential for the technology that Prismatic has built is to become part ofa bigger business that could either use it for recommendations of other things in addition to  or instead of  news content. For example, it could be applied to product searches, more generic web searches, or to discover apps, music or other content. Those are all areas where a platform company like Microsoft  or indeed the others that have eyed up Prismatic  all want to up their game.