As Apple continues to battle the US Governments desireto work around the security of its mobile operating system, European encryptedemail startup, ProtonMail, is choosing the latest skirmish inthe crypto warstolaunch its end-to-end encrypted email service out of beta  switching from invite-only to public sign ups today.Its also launching its first native iOS and Android apps. Previously the free encrypted email client hasbeen accessible via a web interface.The best way to ensure that encryption and privacy rights are not encroached upon is to get the tools into the hands of the public as soon as possible and widely distributing them, saysfounder AndyYen, in a blog post announcing the public launch. This way, we put the choice in the hands of the consumer, and not government regulators.Yen describes Apples stance in the FBI case as admirable, but believes Appleis doomed tolose the case  although he remains upbeat about privacy rights prevailing overthe long run, as indeed he must given the nature of the startup hes running.If one of the worlds largest tech companies is willing to publicly stand on the side of privacy rights, it means this entire space has gained a powerful ally in the inevitable future clashes with the US government, and this makes us less worried for the future, Yentells TechCrunch.Unfortunately, I think Apple is destined to lose this case, as the FBI has cleverly selected a case where popular opinion will be strongly against Apple. However, even if the case is lost, I think the new crypto-war will ultimately be won. If companies like Apple with millions of consumer users are standing on the side of privacy, then privacy will likely prevail in the long run.Switzerland-based ProtonMail fired upits business back in mid 2014, inspired by the fallout from NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdens 2013 discloses of government mass surveillance programs. It went on to crowdfund half a million dollars to build a zero access architecture web-based email system.Idea being the companycouldnever be put in the position of being forced to hand over encryptionkeys if it did not holdthem in the first place.Albeit, that position is looking rathermore precarious now, if lawmakers are going to legislate that companies be required to go so far as be forced to rewrite their code to workaround their own security features  aka hello backdoors. (Or at least, lawmakers in certain jurisdictions )In ProtonMails case, the company has open sourced its web interfaceto bolster trust in its end-to-end encryption. The new mobile apps will also be open source in time. We wont do it right away at launch because we typically wait a bit for the code to stabilize before we start extensively commenting/documenting and cleaning it up for release, notesYen.By March last yearthe startuphad racked up more than 350,000 beta sign ups for its email service. It also announced its first tranche of VC funding ($2 million)  from Charles Rivers Ventures and Swiss not-for-profit incubator FONGIT. Now it has more than one million users  and will clearly be hoping to step that up quickly asit opens the doors to all comers, and as Apple vs the FBI raises public awarenessaround encryption and data privacy.For privacy reasons, we dont closely track individual activity metrics. We track revenue however to gauge the sustainability of our model, and we are approaching break even through donations and paid accounts, says Yen. The distribution of users we know from voluntary user surveys. The current distribution is 49 per cent Europe, 29 per cent North America, 7 per cent Asia, and 15 per cent rest of world.ProtonMail chose to locate itsbusiness in Switzerland, which has hada reputation for robustprivacy rights, as another bolster for its business. And again, in light of recent legal and legislative developments in other parts of the Western world, vis-a-visencryption, that decisionlooks prudent.That said, even in Switzerland, the political security screw isbeing tightened on individual privacy: ProtonMailhashad to mobilize against adomesticsurveillance law, passed last fall, thats seeking to curtail Swiss privacy rights.The startup campaigned against the law viaa petition and was able to collect enough signatures toachieve a public referendum  which willtake place in June. (Yen coolly describes this as a difference of opinion with the Federal government regarding how much surveillance should be permitted.)Being in Switzerland, we havent gotten much pressure from foreign governments, although we do receive several data requests per month from foreign governments. In all cases, we refer them to seek a court order through the competent Swiss authorities, he adds, when asked whether ProtonMail has been subject to specificpolitical pressure over its stance on encryption.Last autumn itdid have to battle a sustained DDoS attack which took itsemail service offline for more than 24 hours. The hope had beento launchProtonMail out of beta around that timebut the teams attention was presumably diverted to firefighting the sustained attack on its systems and to the adding protectionmechanisms to prevent against attacks of a similar or larger scale in future.We have been under sustained attack many times since last fall, some of the subsequent attacks were even larger than the original attack. However, we have fairly good defenses in place now so the subsequent attempts havent been able to knock us offline, says Yen.The earlier attack isthe subject of an ongoing criminal investigation, he adds. We cant say very much other than that the authorities in multiple countries are still actively investigating and we are helping with the investigation when we can.Whats next on ProtonMails to-do list? We want to first add in full PGP support and allow users to import their own encryption keys so they dont need to trust our key generation. Then afterwards, we will extend upon the custom domains support we recently introduced and allow multiple sub-users accounts associated with a single domain. This will allow us to offer a privacy focused Google Apps competitor in Europe.