Swiss based encrypted email providerProtonMail, which we covered last summerduring acrowdfunding campaign where it was promising a zero access architecture fit for our post-Snowden paranoia, has taken in its first tranche of VC funding  announcing a $2 million round from Charles Rivers Ventures and Swiss not-for-profit incubator FONGIT.This bulks up the$550,000 it garnered last year from around 10,000 backers of thecrowdfunding campaign. Co-founder Andy Yen describes the new raise  its first outside money round, as he puts it  as the equivalent of seed funding for the startup. Its taking VC cheque at this pointafterexplosive demandfor the beta of itsencrypted email product, noting its had more than 350,000 sign upsthus far. The betalaunch was in May 2014.Itwill be using the new funds toscale its infrastructure to meet demand, as well asdeveloping new features for the product. Its alsomoving into new offices in Geneva, and will be expanding its datacenters in Switzerland. It talks up itsSwiss location as a USP for the product thanks to theprotection of strict Swiss privacy laws.Its not the only pro-privacy company choosing to settle in Switzerland, either.SGPTechnologies, the company behind the Android hardened Blackphone smartphone  which is now wholly owned by secure comms provider Silent Circle  has made its HQ in Switzerland too, also citing the favorable legal regime.That said, just this weekpoliticians in the Swiss National Council, its lower house, voted to expand the data capture powers of its ownintelligence services(the NDB). The Senate, itssecond chamber,has yet to vote. Among other powers, thenew law wouldallow the NDBto tap phones, computers and networks  sub-optimal if youre a startup trying to sell your pro-privacy services.Albeit, in ProtonMails case, it can arguethat because encryption happens on the client device it has no access to user data socannot be compelled to hand over unencrypted data to government intelligence agencies.This end-to-end encryption sets itsservice apart from rivals like StartMail and HushMail, says Yen. A more similar serviceis Germanys Tutanota, which will be heading out of beta early next week.Tutanota is also doing end-to-end encryption, but there are still a couple key differentiators, says Yen, discussing how ProtonMail stacks up against Tutanota. The most important to me is our cryptographic libraries. We use (and actively contribute to) the OpenPGPjs library which is open source, has been extensively audited, and has a large community of developers. This means our encryption is also fully compliant with the OpenPGP standard.When it comes to security software, being standards compliant is very important, for example, our users can decrypt ProtonMail messages using third party OpenPGP tools if they dont want to trust our code. Tutanota has written their own library which is not OpenPGP compliant and is not actively reviewed by the community.Another difference he flags up is the way ProtonMail hosts its data. Its not cloud hosted, but rather runs its own infrastructure out of two Switzerland-based datacenters.We control the server hardware and the network. Were able to do this due to our teams extensive large scale compute experience from building large hadron collider infrastructure at CERN, adds Yen.As we saw from the NSA leaks, a lot of illicit interception happens at the network level so having control over the network is important, he continues. Our Swiss domicile helps with this as it places our infrastructure under very strict Swiss data protection laws which means all data requests must go through the court system and there is an obligation to notify the target of surveillance.However, as noted above, if Swiss laws are changing to affordhomegrown spooks legal powers to tap computer networks directly then a portionof ProtonMails privacy USP  that court system check and balance which Yen mentions  is going tobe eroded. And boastsabout Swiss grade privacy might carrya little lesssheen.Update: Yen has responded to a request for comment on the proposed law change, telling TechCrunchthat ProtonMail intends to garner public support for a referendum on the issue  which he believes will be able tosway the legislation.