PubNub, the startup that has built a data network that carriesmessaging forapps, IoT hardware and other low-latency services, is today announcing that it has extended and closed its Series C round. The San Francisco-based company has raised $25 million, funding that it will use tosharpen its focus on Internet of Things applications and hardware as well as clean energy and social collaboration.We first reported on the round in July, when originally PubNub had raised $20 million. To date, the company has now raised just over $40 million.The round was led bySapphire Ventures (originally SAPs venture arm), with participation fromRobert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH (RBVC)  the strategic investment arm of the consumer and business electronics giant Bosch  as well Ashton Kutchers Sound Ventures and Envision Ventures; as well asprevious investors Relay Ventures, Scale Venture Partners and TiE Angels.Were thrilled to join this investment round with PubNub, which we recognize is driving some of the hottest social and entertainment apps on the market, said Ashton Kutcher, co-founder of Sound Ventures, in a statement. We have a tremendous amount of confidence in the management team and believe PubNub is poised for exponential growth.The company is not disclosing revenues, profitability orvaluation but when we asked about all thesein July, CEO Todd Greene described the itas rosy. Very solid and exciting.In any case, thecompany is growing pretty rapidly. When we covered the funding in July, it was sending messages across some 200 million devices. Three months later, that number is now up to 300 million devices. PubNub currently has some2,000 customers and partners, with750 billion realtime transactions processed per month on average.While some of the companys more recognizablecustomer names include Yahoo, McDonalds and CBS, its new relationship with Bosch is likely to lead to PubNubsnumbers ramping up even further with a strong boost from enterprise apps around IoT.Bosch Groups strategic goal is to deliver innovations for connected life. RBVC, the corporate venture capital company of Bosch, invests in the most innovative startups, paying particular attention to enabling technologies within the IoT space that can help to make everything from connected devices and cars, to industrial applications and manufacturing processes more intelligent, said Luis Llovera, managing director at Robert Bosch LLC, in a statement. With PubNub, were excited about how its secure, realtime and reliable Data Stream Network can be leveraged in these various IoT applications in innovative ways as it continues to expand its position in that area.As we noted in July, two areas where PubNub may be likely to invest in the months and years ahead is to build out its infrastructure and offer messagingrelays across private networks. Today the company runs an amalgamation of operations across third-party data centers, something that it may look to shift as it moves deeper into M2M enterprise apps.Today we offer the service the global network on which peopledeploy applications. We dont have anything to announce yet on hybrid solutionsbut it is something we are considering, Greene told us in July. That will put PubNub also in closer competition with the likes of Realtime, PusherandGoogle.