ToyTalk, the startup that mashed together Barbie and the Internet of Thingsand let your kids chat away with Thomas the Tank Engine for hours on end, is cashing out on the bot craze with a slight realignment of philosophy  and a new name.When working with children, the companys CEO Oren Jacob said, you are beholden to some pretty strict laws, and ToyTalk as a company had to work diligentlyto ensure we toe the line.To do that, the company developed a whole toolset to enable writers to create narratives for childrens toys. The toolset was called PullString, named after the string you can pull on some dolls to make them talk. The name is undoubtedly a nod to the Andy cowboy doll from Toy Story  Jacob did head up Pixars technical team as its CTO, after all.ToyTalk continues to exist as the companys childrens brand.The change in name, then, reflects a change in direction for the company. The ToyTalk brand continues as before, and is the companys COPPA-compliant brand aiming to make conversation with childrens toys easier. But the wider conversation thats happening is in the space about conversational interfaces  or chatbots if you like  and by design or by accident, thats where PullStringfinds themselves. With the tagline If you can write, you can make a bot, the company finds itself perfectly positioned to help make bots easier to create, and faster to deploy.What a lot of people are missing in the midst of the amazement of Apples Siri becoming an expert on everything and Microsofts Tay becoming a raging racist holocaust-denier is that for a lot of commercial applications, the interfaces you are talking to arentmeant to be the be-all, end-all of knowledge.You dont want your chatbot to just steam on. (sorry)PullString started its journey making bots for children mostly because their limited vocabularies made them easier to understand (and, lets be honest, children dont mind as much if some of the answers they get in return are utter nonsense). But in the process, they also designed a world of rigidly scripted conversations that somehow manage to feel natural. With good reason, too:There are some things a child might ask about that you wouldnt necessarily want the bot to google and give an answer to.The magic, then, is in how a chatbot deflects a question. Maybe thats something you should talk to your parents about, for example, is a perfectly fine answer to some of the difficult questions  much like when Siri recommends certain URLs when your line of questioning hits certain keywords.While the conversational interfaces have developed in leaps and bounds, and the PullString bots can now understand a far wider set of words and phrases, one restraint remains: You still dont want a free-for-all for children.We want a whole lot of people, talking to a whole lot of characters, a whole lot of the time, Jacob likes to say, before adding, with a wink and a nod, the best of which are ours.The key here is characters, which a good way to look at meaningful interactions. If you meet with any random person on the street, you could ask them about literally anything, but you may not get a reply. Thats a good way to think about bots as well. Think about it this way: If you pull up to a drive-through window at McDonalds and ask about the weather, ordering a pizza or whether or not the holocaust happened, youre probably not there to engage in a fruitful transaction. For conversational interfaces to work well, these interactions need to happen on a similar plane: Whether youre talking to a human or a robot at the drive-through window at McDs, youll probably not be talking about pizzas: youre ordering menu items from the fast-food chains menu.Jessie has gotten herself into a bit of a mess, and needs your help  via Facebook Messenger  to get her life back on track.A great way to experience this is in the companys Facebook Messenger bot game Humani: Jessies Story. In it, Jessie just lost her job and got kicked out of her house, and is knee-deep in trouble. The story is good and worth playing through (but if you cant be bothered and dont mind spoilers, Sarah Kessler explains the experience well), but whats even more interesting is what happens at the far edges of the story, when you try to push the conversation off topic. Jessie simply just doesnt engage. At times, shell simply ignore you when youre being obnoxious. It definitely feels less interactive when you try to derail the conversation, but on the other hand, when you engage and drive the story forward, you get rewarded by the next twist and turn in the story.Taking a step back, keeping you on track iswhat you wouldexpect from a chatbot on a mission, and exactly what youd hope from every bot: It is there to accomplish a task(completing an order, helping you avoid fraud on your bank account, booking a table at a restaurant), and everything not pertinent to that mission is irrelevant.What PullString has been able to do, then, isabstract theAI and voice-command-style software away from the task at hand, enabling good writers to create phrases, sentences and clarifications to help facilitate efficient conversations. Expect your bank, your online ordering and your drive-through window to getsmarter and quicker very soon  and I wouldnt be at all surprised if a lot of those interactions will be powered by PullString going forward, especially when the company opens up its tools to developers later this year.