The riseof messaging apps has seemingly done two things to many would-be app developers. First: its made an unholy number of thembuild messaging apps because MESSAGING IS THE NEXT BIG THING. Second: it has spawned all manner of gimmicky takes on WhatsApp, Snapchat, etc.eachof which purports to offer something different.In probably 95 percent of cases, the apps that have been created have absolutely no tangible benefitto the world or anyone. Im not being a hater but, as TechCrunchs unofficialmessaging app reporter, Im in a position to have an informed opinion.So, with those caveats now clearly stated, I actually found a new messaging app that I liked. Whod have thunk it?Quickie is the name, and its an app for iOS and Android that lets you send ephemeral  aka self-destructing  photos, video, drawings or text.The reason Iveenjoyed it this past week is because it is so simple and frivolous.Its easy to open and quickly send a pic  front or back camera  write a message, doodle a drawing, or shoota quick video and send to a friend. Once the other person has seenyour message, it is gone.Gone forever.And thats basically the app in a nutshell.Screenshots of ephemeral apps are harder to take than I first thoughtI spend most of my day inside messaging apps. Theres Slack for work,and any combination of Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Line, WeChat and others for personal and sometimes also inevitably work too. These messaging apps have scaled to hundreds of millions of users, and, in doing so, in many ways they replaced email for certain communication. That, in itself, makes them a little more serious than perhaps they were in the past.Thats probably why I appreciate a lightweight and simple app that is strictlyfor fun. The drawing section was also a smash with my kids (aged four and six), although there are plenty of apps that they can doodle with and keep their creations too.If you find Snapchat unintuitive  whats with the confusing interface, anyway?  then Quickie mightresonate with you. But, then again, opinions are subjective and these apps only work if you have a few friends who use them with you.