A new app from David Barnard, the developer behind the popular Launch Center Pro,promises to be the cure for boredom. Rando, as the app is called, offersa crazy twist on ourcarefully curated online personas  instead of allowing you to choose a photo or GIF to share with friends, Rando willrandomly pick one for you. You can also share random text quotes, then post them to Facebook or Twitter or send them via SMS.Why would you want to do this? Well, umwhy not? I mean, youve got time to kill. Its the weekend. Your friends can take a joke. Right?The app even features a send blindly mode, which is something like a digital dare  that is, a test to see if youre brave enough to send a piece of content to a friend before youre able to see what it is. (The app blurs the content until after its sent. Yikes!)In case youre not feeling up to completely random sharing, the app additionallyoffersa picker mode where you can select up to three photosfor Rando to choose from, as well as a way to specify that youd prefer it to pull from your Selfies gallery instead. Similarly, you can pick the subject for your quote (funny, pets, friendship, etc.) or your GIF (lol, bored, win, love, etc.) to narrow down Randos selection.To be honest, Rando makes me a little uncomfortable. What exactly is on my Camera Roll? Are all my images okayfor sharing? Will Rando choose some wildly inappropriate GIF? Quote?Of course, you still have some control over the sharing process even if you choose to send blindly, youre the one who has to press post or send on the resulting social media post or text message. So really, if anyembarrassment occurs, you only have yourself to blame.The send blindly feature is kind of a fun, gimmicky thing, admits Barnard. But its also interesting on a deeper level. Building and testing it has forced me to think a lot about what I share and why as well as what embarrassing photos might be lurking deep in my Camera Roll, he says.Im not sure Rando is a sure-fire hit, but Im curious to see what its creators come up with next.As it turns out, Rando is not just some oddballside project from Barnard. Its the first app to emerge from his new, bootstrapped company, formed as a way foritsfounders to experiment with social. Among Randos co-creators areRick Messer,Jonathan Hays and Ryan DeVore.Barnard, as noted above, is best known as the independent developer behinda number of well-received productivity apps over the years, including Launch Center Pro, Contact Center, Email+, Group Text+, Mileage Log+ and others. The apps are known for their high-quality design and attention to detail, and have their own devoted followings.Co-founders Hays and DeVores company Silverpine has put out a number of notable apps as well, including photo-focused apps likePhotoPanes and Sunlit, as well as social apps like BeerGram. Messer, meanwhile, is a product designer at Funsize, which has done work for Groupon, HomeAway and others.Rando might not be a roaring success it is kind of, wellrandom  but its worth tracking the company, Modests, future releases.Rando is a free download on iTunes.