So heres an awkward question  How many of you are reading this article without ads? Dont be shy if you are. Youre definitely not alone.Youll be getting even more ad-blocking optionswith next weeks launch of iOS 9, which is supposed tosupport content blocking extensions. That could be a big step forward for the technology, which has been a largely desktop-only phenomenon until now. Naturally, the news has prompted another round of handwringing about the impact that ad blocking could have on the publishing business.Even without Apples support, ad blocking has beenon the rise. There are now 198 million global active users of ad blocking software, up 41 percent from 12 months ago, according to a recent report by PageFair and Adobe. The report alsoestimates that ad blocking will cost publishers $22 billion in revenue this year.Some caveats: PageFair isnt an objective industry observer, since its business revolves around helping publishers circumvent these blockers. Also, the impact on mobile may be reduced as more content is distributed onapps and social networks. Lastly,there have been arguments thatad blocking wont hurt publishers as badly as you might think, because the ad business has always been lossy, with lots of wasted money, whether youre talking about TV or print.Ive been watching the discussion with particular interest and, yes, a little fear, since its something that could affect TechCrunchs bottom line  and with it, my job.So over the past couple ofweeks, Ive been asking people in the media and advertising industry for their perspective. Were they worried? And if so, how aretheir going to adapt?The ethics of ad blockingIts no surprise that advertisers and publishers who make their money from advertising arent exactly fans of blockers. What is surprisingis that no one seemed to disagreewith theargumentthat online adshave gotten out of control. Yes, they said, weve all seen ads that are too pushy ordramatically increase load times, and yes, they understand why people areunhappy abouthow theirdata gets used to target those ads.I think if we dont acknowledge that, wed be fools, said Scott Cunningham, senior vice president at the Interactive Advertising Bureau (a trade organization that helps establish online ad standards). So does that mean ad blockers are good or right? Absolutely not. Do we have an accountability and responsibility to address these things? Absolutely  and theres a lot that were doing now.That was the viewpoint I heard again and again: Yes, theres a problem, but ad blockers are not the answer.For example, Harry Kargman, the founder and CEO of mobile ad company Kargo, agreed that in many cases, online ads have created a bad consumer experience  from an annoyance perspective, a privacy perspective, a usability perspective. At the same time, he said that as the industry works to solve these problems, it also needs to convince peoplethat when youuse an ad blocker, Thats stealing. Its no different than ripping music. Its no different than pirating movies.Part of this disagreement boils down to how you view the relationship between publishers and readers. On the one hand, youve got publishers saying that theres an implicit agreement that theyll give you lots of content for free, but in exchange you have to put up with ads. By using an ad blocker, youre breaking the agreement.On the other hand, youve got folks like Ben Williams, director of operations at AdBlock Plus, who argued, No one ever opted in for advertising online. It came after the fact. In addition, he said, If youre younger and grew up with the Internet and without necessarily newspapers, then this deal, this implicit deal, is even further away from your mind. You certainly never opted into it.AdBlock Plus, by the way, recentlyreleased its own ad-blocking browser for iOS and Android.Its also working on an extension that will block mobile ads in Safari.But lets get a little more specific about whypeople are rejecting online advertising. Naturally, the answer depends on who you ask.Does anyone like advertising?PageFair says it surveyed 400 people in the United States and that found the number one reasonthey use ad blockers, or would use ad blockers, is, If I feel my personal data is being misused to personalize the ads (though PageFair also says ad quantity was the most common complaintamong millennials).Williams, on the other hand, said the number one reason users cite for installingAdBlock Plus is annoyance with ads (though privacy is also a factor, and he predicted that as ad blocking moves onto mobile, it will be more about data and speed).The distinction isimportant, because different complaints have different solutions. Take Disconnect, which already offers mobile ad blocking softwareand is working onnew tools to take advantage of iOS 9.Since Disconnect is focused on privacy, it doesnt block all ads, just the ones that are targeted usingthird-party data. Co-founder and CEO Casey Oppenheim said that if an ad only uses first-party data (i.e., data from the website youre visiting), then his softwarewont interfere.Especially in a world where consumers dont want to pay for software, advertising becomes criticallyimportant, Oppenheim added. So just for us, being a blanket ad blocker is not something were really comfortable with.AdBlock Plus, on the other hand, has created an acceptable ads initiative where users are presented with non-intrusive ads. These ads lookpretty differentfrom the ones we usually see online  for one thing, theyre preferably text only.Williams admitted thatthe company hasnt found the perfect balance yet, but he noted that only a single-digit percentage of AdBlock Plus users have opted out of seeing those acceptable ads  he said its proof that people will be okay with a certain type of ad.Naturally, not everyone in the ad industry is a fan.I dont think its a valid approach, said the IABs Cunningham. You hear the extortion comment all the time, but I prefer to look at it as, it just honestly negatively impacts the value chain between the publisher and consumer.Whos hurting the most?Theimpact of ad blockers differs from publishers to publisher, with gaming sites seeing the largest number of ad-blocked readers. It can also represent a significant amount of traffic for non-gamingsites that cater to young, male, tech-savvy audiences, like TechCrunch.When I asked about how much of our traffic comes from ad blockers, I was told that TechCrunch-owner AOL looked into the issue about a year ago. At the time, it found that ad blockers accounted for 20 to 24 percentof traffic toAOLTech sites, pretty much in line with other tech-related news sites.On the other hand, a company like Spanfeller Media Group caters primarily to women through its siteThe Daily Meal, so its seeing less than 10 percent of its traffic coming through ad blockers.Even in that case, CEO Jim Spanfeller said ad blockingwill become a concern if the trends continue. And while he admitted that he was pulling a number out of thin air, he predictedhed really start to get worried oncead blocking got up to 25 percent.So hes not just sitting around waiting for that to happen. Spanfeller said hes already looking at potential workarounds, whether that involves hidingcontent until people turn off their ad blockers (But well say it nicer than that) or asking users to pay if they dont want to see ads.He acknowledged that those tactics might anger readers  but, well, thoseare readers hes not making money from anyway, so hes not surethey provide much value.Are people pissed when they walk into a store and they dont get a car for free? he asked.Other publishersare already experimenting with different anti ad-blocking tactics. And there are startups like Sourcepoint and the aformentioned PageFair helping publishers to serve ads to users, even if theyve got an ad-blocker installed. (Williams was particularly opposed to that last approach, describing it as a short-term decision, an anti-user decision.) Im told that AOL is building new tools to track ad blocking and to monetize adblocked pageviews as well.Our recommendation right now to publishers is to start that experimentation and that dialogue with your consumersto find out where the tolerance areas lie, Cunningham said.Theres a whole matrix of different options that publishers can do in between these two things [doing nothing and completely hidingcontent from ad-blocked users] to get consumers to engage.Reasons to behopefulCunningham saidthe IAB is also working to make ads better forconsumers  he pointed tothe organizations guidelines around HTML5 advertising, which he described as the beginning of a path to a better user experience.Kargman and Spanfeller suggestedother ways the industry could improve. For his part, Kargman put much of the blame on advertisers new obsession with whether an ad actually gets seen. Seems like a valid concern, right? Well, Kargman suggested that as advertisers pushed for improvedviewability, they ended up with ads that gotflashier and intrusive.So in his view, the industry needs to find better ways (in his parlance, better currency) to evaluate ad effectiveness.In advertising, because the market is shifting so rapidly, were using almost outdated currency, he said. That currency really should reflect thequality of the environment the ad runs in, how brand safe it is, thequality ofthe content on the page, how well the ad is integrated onto the page and, obviously, how much the consumer engages with the ad.Spanfeller, on the other hand, pointed to the proliferation of programmatic ad tech and third-party data. When every ad is supposed to be targeted algorithmically, drawing on different types of user data,you end up with 60 or 70 cookies on every page. Much of that data, he argued, isnt really making the ads more effective, so perhaps its time to cut back.A change is gonna comeWill any of these improvementshappen? Maybe not, but at least people are making the right gestures. And regardless of how you feel about ad blockers, theres no denying that theyve changed the conversation.Of course, I wouldntpin the blame on ad blocking,I would put it on the fact that there are bad ads out there, he said. I hope its not such a slow process.  It probably wont happen overnight, but we can already start to make very positive changes now.Hey, if things do get better, consider turning off that ad blocker, okay? Otherwise I might have to start looking for a real job.