After raising funds ata $1 billion valuation, gaming company Razer has confirmedits first acquisition. It has bought the software assets of Ouya;and it hasacqui-hired the companys technical and developer relations teams to expand RazersAndroid TV gaming business, specifically around its Forge TV console and the Cortexgaming platform.Notably, Razer is not acquiring thehardware part of Ouyasbusiness, specifically the microconsole and controller that helped make Razers name in the first place.The terms of the acquisitionhave not been disclosed butIt was an all-cash deal, Min-Liang Tan, founder and CEO of Razer, toldTechCrunch. This means all Ouyas VC investorshave cashed out. But at least one  Alibaba, which put $10 million into Ouya earlier this year  will now be working more with Razer. (More on that below.)Ouya CEO and co-founder Julie Uhrman will not be coming over to Razeras partthe deal, Uhrman and Tan toldTechCrunch, although both note that Uhrmansupportsthe transition. Shes also been thankinglots ofpeople for the last hour over Twitter for their support of the company.Ouya had launched in 2012 with a console that raised over $8.5 million on Kickstarter, but all but stopped developing that part of the business in March 2014 after struggling to attract developers to build for it, and gamers to buy the kit.Ouyastill seems to be selling the devices at the time of writing. We have asked Uhrman if she can tell us what may be happening with the hardware and related IP, if anything.Todays announcementwas a while incoming. The acquisition was first reported at the beginning of June. And while the companies did not comment at the time, it wasindirectly confirmedby Mesa, theinvestment bank that helped broker the deal. (In little twist, Mesa itself was acquired just last week.) Razer says the acquisition closed on June 12.The deal will alternately involve integration and migration. Razer will be integrating Ouyas games, controllers and accounts to its Cortex TV gaming platform, and will relaunchOuyas store as Cortex for Android TV. Tan tells TechCrunch that as of today, Razers software platform has millions of users and over 2 million daily active gamers. Ouya claims to be the worlds biggest Android TV console publisher, with more than 1,000 games, and the developer relations team will in part be working to keep building that business.Razerwill also be migrating Ouyas 200,000 users over in the process, Tan tells TechCrunch, with about a year more of support for Ouya hardware and offers to try to get them to migrate over to Razer devices like the Forge TV microconsole and Serval controller bundle.There are about 200,000 users on the OUYA platform and for the hardware users, we intend to, out of goodwill (as we didnt acquire the hardware assets), keep the lights on for their gaming service for at least 12 months as we encourage them to migrate to the Razer service which will have a lot more features, new content and new games, he said. We will have more follow up announcements soon on the transition to the new service. Sweeteners will include freebies, giveaways and promotions, Razer noted.Tansays that Razerwill also be keeping the Ouya brand in part. TheOuyabrand name will live on as a standalone gaming publisher for Android TV and Android based TV consoles, he said.The deal marks the end of the linefor Ouya as a standalonebusiness after it burst into the world with a mission to expand Android gaming on the TV, and a record-breaking Kickstarter campaign to underscore popularinterest in helping to make that happen.Ouya was created with the goal to give developers more freedom. In doing this, we created the first open platform for television. And, with more than 1,000 games, we offered more content  and a broader variety  than any other platform, Uhrmanemailed me in response to questions about the deal. We are excited that Razer will expand our vision.While this was a hard trail to blaze, we proved that we could bring new thinking to how the games industry operates and we hope we have paved the way for others, allowing all game developers to bring his or her game to the big screen.But while competitionagainst incumbents likeMicrosoft and Sony proved to be too challenging for Ouya, the shifts weve seen  precipitated by the rise of smaller and mobile computing devices and new experiences altogetherpoint to there being room for more players.Razer, like Ouya, has been following a vertically-integrated route while building its business, investing not just in platforms to attract more software development but also in building a range of hardware that includes not just the Forge console but Blade gaming-optimized laptops, peripherals like controllers and keyboards, and wearables.The idea is that Ouya will be able to help in both of those areas.On the software side, Ouya had already been working with companies like Xiaomiand its Mi Boxand Alibabas TMall Box, and that will continue under its new owner as a way for Razer to expand the economies of scale of its bigger platform.Alibaba Group is committed to bringing high-quality games and content to our Chinese users. We look forward to continuing our collaboration with Ouya through Razer, an Alibaba spokesperson told TechCrunch.The Forge TV console, meanwhile, has had mixed reviews since launching earlier this year, with some pointing out that there are strong competitors both above and below its basic $100 price point and others ultimately concluding thatits not bad, but buggy. Razer clearlyis not ready to give up, though, so while it continues to develop the hardware is hoping for another software boost to the product by way of Ouya.Prior to the sale, Ouya had raised $33.6 million with investors including Kleiner Perkins, Jay Adelson, Mayfield Fund, Nvidia, Occam Capital and Shasta Ventures. Razer, meanwhile, countsIntel Capital, IDG-Accel and Heliconia Capital Management (a subsidiary of Singapores Temasek) as investors.