Anyone whos worked for any length of time in the publishing industry will, given theslightest amount of alcohol,wax lyrical about broken business models and the clickbaity-hellbeing wreaked on editorial content.So its no surprise how often you find publishing industry typesturning entrepreneurial in the hopes of buildinga better model forjournalism and editorial content. E.g. BlendleandBlockfeed, to name two recent startups that spring to mind. (A third,Clippet, was co-founded by media mogul Rupert Murdochs grandson.)London basedReadbug is another startup with publishing industry expertisefiring its engines. Co-founder and CEO Matthew Hammett has a background launching small and big magazine titles. And his startup pitch can be summed up very concisely  as Spotify for magazines.Specifically independent, cult and classic magazine titles  so not the garish mass market fare youll find rammed in your eyeline at the supermarket checkout screaming about celebrities and cellulite.Readbugbills its aggregated digitized magazine content as alternative/aspirational stuff, read bycreative and curious types. AndHammett says itsdeliberately handpicking and curating the titlesit wants to repackage and distribute on its platform in order toestablish its own editorial voice  as well it must to stand a chance of pulling eyeballsin an era of free info overload.Theappoffers an all-you-can-eat content model across its selectedmagazine titles for a monthly subscription fee(currently costing 9.99 in the U.K.). Users can browse and read specific titles, as well as telling the app generalinterests to get relevant content pushed tothem. Theres no freemium element as yet (aside from an initial seven day free trial) but the plan is to add some free channels in future, showcasing a selection of content curated by Readmag staff, as a way to expand the apps appeal down the line.Reader revenueis divided between Readbug and its publishing partners, with a 30:70 share. The publisherspot of money isdivided between all the title owners,based on thecontentReadbugs users have beenreading eachmonth.So its a pretty simple model  albeit an all-you-can-eat Spotify one, vs (for instance) rival journalism marketplace Blendles pay-per-article iTunes style offering.Readbugs pitch to its target indie publishers is the chance to increase their digital reach without having to do any extra work or spend any extra money themselves. They mighteven get to grow their dead-tree subscribers, given the team intends toadd a buy buttonto the platform to make it easier for new media readersto become old media consumers too.My backgrounds publishing. Ive come from some big publishing houses and it was as simple as just thinking theres got to be a better model, and Spotify for magazines. Theres got to be a better distribution model for digital content, for a digital magazine, Hammett tells TechCrunch, explaining the germ of Readbugsidea. And its really grown from there.Part of the conversation [with publishers] is look, were not trying to replace print, were trying to open it up to a digital market, he adds.We convert all our content so its mobile friendlyWere adding a buy-it-now function so the reader can  at the end of an article or a magazine  decide to purchase the magazine there and then.So from the publishers perspective its great if they want to expand their print distribution to say South America theres huge cost involved, but we can always market and dip test those areas for them.The team started off with a basic business pitch on equity crowdfunding site Seedrs, back in May last year, where theymanaged to raise 75,000 in around four days  more than the initial 50,000 they had been hoping for. They followed that up with another Seedrs round, pulling in 200,000 last November to get an initialproduct to market  going on to launch a beta version of their iOS app this February, with nine publishers on board.Theyre now crowdfunding to raise500,000, again via Seedrs taking in a small investment from London digital app studio ustwo as part of this round. This thirdtranche offinancing will befocused on ramping up marketing to get more users, as well as continuing building out the number of publishers signed up, says Hammett.The app currently offers 50 titles  including the likes of Dazed, Huck and Makeshift  with a further 10 readyto be added shortly. Hesaystheyre aiming to have expanded to 125 titles by this time next year.In terms of users, at this nascent stage, theyve had around 9,000 downloads so far, and 3,000 registered users  again without doing any significant marketing.Who are the early users? Theyre what Hammett describes astrendsetters or tastemakers. Theyre East London hipsters. Definitely people who work in creative sectors or ideas based industries, he says.On the publishing side, its been a tale of two very different mindsets: big vs small. Early discussions with big publishers about aggregating their content on the platform stalled owing to the terms being demanded, says Hammett pushing Readbug to pivot to focus on the smaller indie mag segment.We had a lot of conversations and deals ready to go with some of the bigger publishing houses and the thing is with those guys theyre the big hulking beasts who are very difficult to move and innovate. So they were asking for huge minimum revenue guarantees and all these sort of things. In the end we were like look guys, how much weve raised is in the public domain. Were a small startup, a few people with big ideas  we cant really lock into these sort of guarantees, he says.Something that really sprung out for us was that at the same time, we had about nine or so publishers who were kind of like independent publishers  so independent magazines  and these guys were completely different. It was a completely different conversation. They were like yeah lets push it globally, lets do everything we can to get behind you, were really excited about it. And so at the same time as shelving these more mainstream deals we really saw a group of publishers who were really behind us.Readbug digitizes the content it get fromits publishing partners so they dont have to  again, making the model a good fit for smaller indies who likely donthave the resources to dabble around with tech themselves (vs big publishers who may wellalreadyhave their own apps).Everything we do is to support the publishers so when we convert it to a digital format we use the publishers fonts, we use their color schemes, and try and inject some of that character back in to it as well, says Hammett . The analogy is the vinyl collector at home with his record collection but when he sets out the door sticks Spotify or sticks their playlist on Theres a balance between the two.Ultimately its about broadening their reach. For a magazine to print 20,000 issues  thats the limit of their reach, whereas for us we can take your labor of love, this beautifully crafted journalism, and we can push it out to a global, digital audience. There is a real appeal to them there.As well as faithfully reproducing entire indie magazines, cover to cover, in a mobile-friendly digital format, including any ads that were in the original magazines (albeit only as a scanned image, not a digital ad unit at this stage), the team also augments the content with any additional digital material a magazine might have produced for its own website, say. By, for example, embeddingrelated video or audio content into relevant articles.In future, Hammett says they want to work more closely with publishers on further enhancing the digital versions of their magazines that are being distributed on itsplatform. Were looking at things like in-house content original content. Where we add in video content from publishers currently, to sort of say to these guys look, if youre got photo shoots let us chip in on it as well and perhaps make it a video as well  stuff like that. Really try and support and enhance what publishers are doing.Interestingly, Hammett notes thatthe vast majority of current Readbug users (circa 95 per cent) are reading the digital magazine content on their phones, not theiriPads(although the app is available for both device types). So the use-case is presumably more about filling in dead time during coffee breaks and commutes, rather than gettingpeople to curl up in bed or on the sofawith their iPad for a long reading session  asyou might expect them to do with an actual, paper magazine.Its the device youve got closest to hand  your phone, basically  is what were interested in, he notes, adding: Readbugis available on iPad but its definitely not as interesting to us.The 9.99 per month fee seems a littlesteepfor a magazine-based digital media offering which requires users apply their full attention in order toconsume the content (vs musicwhich can justbe background noise) especially when you consider moves by mobile device makers to freely repackage editorial content as another perk they push out, such as Apple Newson iOS, or Samsungs editorial alliance with Axel Springer.That said,indie mag content does not come cheap  with Hammett noting that its target magazine titles are typically priced between 5 and 15 on the shelf. So the price-point is probably appropriately expensiveenough for the styleconscious buyersReadbug is targeting. He saysthe team hopes to have some 45,000 subscribers signed up by this time next year  quantifyinghowmany hipsters he reckons will shell outfor on tapmobileaccess to their reading matter of choice.