If youve been paying attention, you probably noticed the recent headlines about T-Mobile CEO John Legere and his anti-EFF mini-rant on Twitter. Legere was responding to a question we had asked about T-Mobiles Binge On service: Does Binge On alter the video stream in any way, or just limit its bandwidth? But it apparently made him angry enough to drop an f-bomb on us..@EFF pic.twitter.com/pv6V4oOJwS John Legere (@JohnLegere) January 7, 2016Hes since apologizedand urged everyone to turn the conversation back to what really matters: user choice and ISP transparency. We are grateful for his apology, and we agree with him. Its important to focus on the underlying issues instead of being distracted by color commentary. So lets talk about the issues.We want to start by clearly stating our position on Binge On, the carriers video-streaming product that lets users stream video without using their data. We think Binge On has great promise. Providing customers a way to control how they use their data is something more ISPs should offer, and in this respect we think Binge On contains the kernel of a good idea.
Jeremy Gillula is a staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.Kit Walsh is a staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation working on free speech, net neutrality, copyright and coders' rights.Elliot Harmon is an activist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation focusing on patent law and intellectual property issues.The most serious problem with Binge On, as it is now, is that T-Mobile has imposed throttling without its customers making an informed choice to participate.T-Mobile made Binge On opt-out, which means that, by default, all T-Mobile customers were having all of their video throttled. As weve said before, throttling all traffic by default based on application type runs afoul of well-established open Internet principles. Again, were not arguing that exchanging throttling for zero-rating isnt a benefit for some people; we just think people should be able to make that choice themselves, instead of having it thrust upon them.Although the option to opt-out constitutes some level of consumer choice, its important to recognize that defaults matter, and that a lot of customers (especially less tech-savvy ones) will never even realize that they can change them.Additionally, T-Mobile hasnt been transparent and honest with its users about how Binge On actually works. As a result, the opt-out choice customers have been presented with hasnt been an informed one.When it launched Binge On back in November, T-Mobile touted that Powered by new technology built in to T-Mobiles network, Binge On optimizes video for mobile screens, minimizing data consumption while still delivering DVD or better quality (e.g. 480p or better).Similarly, on the webpage in which T-Mobile describes how it manages its network, it says that Binge On uses video streaming optimizationto deliver a DVD quality (typically 480p or better) video experience with minimal buffering while streaming. And last week, Legere said that we created adaptive video technology to optimize for mobile screens and stream at a bitrate designed to stretch your data.To anyone from the average user to a Ph.D. in computer science, these descriptions of what Binge On does seem pretty straightforward. When you go to stream a video, T-Mobiles video streaming optimization technology should automatically optimize the video for your mobile screen. Trying to stream an HD (or heaven forbid, a 4K) video to your tiny screen, or download one for watching later? T-Mobile will save you data by ensuring that you actually get a 480p video instead.The problem is, thats not how Binge On actually works. Binge On does not adapt video in any way, shape, or form. It doesnt optimize video. It doesnt down-sample video. It doesnt modify the bitrate of the underlying video stream. It does not automatically transform HD video into 480p video. All Binge On does is cap the bandwidth allocated to the video stream to around 1.5Mbps.We call that throttling. T-Mobile calls it downgrading. (For the record, we think thats also a misleading term, since downgrading implies video streams are simply being given a lower priority than other traffic. If that were true, then in the absence of higher priority traffic, videos should stream at the same throughput as any other content. But thats not the case: our tests showed that video streams are capped at around 1.5Mbps even when theres no congestion.) Whatever you call it, T-Mobile does not actually modify the content of video that enters its network.So why does T-Mobile keep insisting that Binge On will result in 480p non-buffering-super-smooth streaming video? Because for some services, it will. Many major streaming video services, from Netflix to YouTube, automatically detect how much bandwidth is available for their video streams to use. They then adapt the quality of the video they send out, so that it streams smoothly. In other words, they detect that T-Mobile is capping the bandwidth, and they optimize the video they send.Some (including Legere) have argued that this is just semantics. Video gets adapted one way or another, so whats the problem?The problem is that not all videos adapt automatically by default. Simple embedded HTML5 video, for example, doesnt have any built-in adaptation capability. When fixed bitrate videos like these hit throttling on T-Mobiles network, playback will stutter or fail. In order to reach T-Mobiles customers without playback issues, an independent provider like a journalist, startup or university would need to build or purchase a system to monitor for and adapt to such throttling.Additionally, T-Mobile is throttling video downloads, not just streams. So if youre trying to save a video to watch for later, youll eventually get the HD or 4K video file and youll use just as much data as you would otherwise, but youre in for a longer wait than necessary. More than anything, this exposes the fact that T-Mobiles implementation of Binge On doesnt actually do any optimizationafter all, if it were all about streaming optimization, Binge On wouldnt touch downloads. Its not semantics. Its apples and oranges.In order for customers to make informed choices, and in order for websites to be able to reach those customers, the public needs technically accurate information about how ISPs manage their networks.If you were a T-Mobile customer who blamed a website when you had trouble trying to stream an HD video, your blame would be misplaced, because T-Mobile didnt clearly describe how Binge On works. And if you were a web developer who wanted T-Mobile customers to be able to download your videos, you might assume that theyd download as fast as any other file, but youd be wrong, because T-Mobile didnt clearly describe how Binge On works.Certainly there are secondary issues with Binge On. T-Mobile is throttling all videos, not just those of streaming providers who have signed up with T-Mobile. That wasnt as clear as it could have been at first.T-Mobile is also throttling videos that its not zero-rating, when it could at least try to zero-rate them (even if it couldnt commit to doing so). And even when zero-rating programs are open to all edge providers for free (like Binge On), they still tilt the playing field toward larger providers who have the resources to enroll and adapt their video streams to compensate for throttling (and even realize that they need to).But for now, our biggest concern with Binge On is about a major ISP being honest and clear with its customers, and whether or not that ISP gives its customers a real, informed choice about how to manage their data.Weve heard that many of T-Mobiles customers appreciate Binge On. We may not love it ourselves, but we dont think T-Mobile needs to abolish the program completelyit just needs to make some changes to how it works, how customers can choose to use it, and how T-Mobile describes it to the public. We think those changes would not only allow customers (and website developers) to make better informed decisions, they would benefit the Internet as a whole.In his post this week, Legere emphasized how supportive he and T-Mobile are of net neutrality. But net neutrality isnt just about treating traffic neutrally, and its not even just about giving customers control. Its also about being transparent with network management practices.To promote meaningful customer choice, Binge On should be opt-in and the program should be clearly explained. And to avoid discriminating among sources of online video, T-Mobile should not zero-rate some throttled video while counting other throttled video towards the users data cap.We hope that Mr. Legere agrees that taking these steps to improve Binge On would be a good thing for his customers and the Internet at large.