Since Apple finally opened up the system-wide keyboard to third-party developers, back in iOS 8, there has been a flood of alternative keyboard apps  from established Android keyboard brandslike Swype and SwiftKey, to newcomershoping theirglitzy GIF/emoji keyboards will make an impact. And plenty others besides.Well, heres another one: ReBoard is a just launched iOS keyboard app from an indie dev team in India thats targeting productivity-focused folk, by adding the ability to reach out to other apps right from the keyboard. So instead of having to double tap out of whatever messaging app youre using to go hunt for that YouTube link, for instance, you can do a look up right from the keyboard. Ditto image search. And Wikipedia. Theres also a translation function, plus conversion and calculator, and more.The keyboard can also integrate with other apps such asSlack (if you grant permission), so you could Slack your colleagues without actually having to open up the Slack mobile app. Other supported app integrations include Dropbox and Wunderlist, so you can view your files and reminders from the keyboard. Calendar appointments can also be scheduled right from within the keyboard. So its basically turning the keyboard into more of a platform, in and of itself.The problem is switching between apps to do some task, e.g. just to schedule an appointment, one has to leave whatever he/she is doing, open the Calendar app and navigate a different UI. Switching between apps not only wastes time but also destroys the current context and puts more cognitive load on the mind, argues ReBoard co-founderJeet Singh.With ReBoard, tasks like these can easily be completed from within the keyboard window itself without switching apps. Thus staying in the context, getting more peace of mind and being more productive.Singh says the third-party services its chosen to implement as actions within the keyboard were selected bystudying what tasks a normal user performs on his/her device.Our goal is to integrate all those tasks into ReBoard that a person performs on a daily basis, he adds. Well be continuously adding more actions by integrating more third-party services by using their APIs. Well also consider partnering up with others where it creates value for our users.ReBoards premise is that putting more functions into the keyboard willsave the user time on switching between apps. And its a good theory, although it does require users to invest a bit of time to get their head arounda new workflow. And be happy to perform actions in a small space. But theres certainly a use case for quick look ups, or grabbing a link without having to dive out to another app or the browser.So how does ReBoard actually work? Users of the keyboard type relatively normally for the most part, with the Qwerty offering a few additional gesture-focused tricks to speed things up like word deleting (swipe up on the backspacekey to delete a whole word), or alternative characters (swipe up on a key to quick-access its alt char). Theres also a cursor shortcut feature if you press and hold on the space bar to save having to move your finger up the screen to tap where you wantthe cursor to be.Thebiggest difference is thefunction key that sits above the Qwerty keys. Tappingthis brings up the variousadditional app functions. But its a three-stage process to utilize these properly. So, for instance, if you want to look up TechCrunch videos on YouTube you hit the function key, type TechCrunch, then hit the YouTube key. That then brings up a stack of TC YouTube videos which you can scroll through right within the keyboard. Tapping on a video then brings up another menu  with options such as insert link and copy link, or the ability to open the video in the YouTube app or browser.The workflow is the same for other look ups, such as doing an eBay search, or checking something on Wikipedia.The order of the available actions within ReBoard can be configured via its shellapp, which also lets you set the language preferences for the translation action (which defaults asEnglish intoArabic).In truth, I foundthe app a bitfiddly to use. The up gesture to delete whole words often doesnt register, so you end up having to repeat tap it anyway. And the workflow for performing app functions can feel like its slowing you down, rather than turbo-charging your efficiency. For instance, if you hit the function key and then an action key, forgetting totype something in between, it will use whatever text is in your clipboard  so can land you insidesome random look ups.That said, once youve got the hang of the workflow its pretty straightforward, andfavored shortcuts would likely feel familiar pretty quickly. And if youre the sort of person who religiously memorized desktop software keyboard shortcuts, then ReBoards workflow is going to feel like childs play in comparison.The app is a paid download, costing $1.99. The team is also monetizing via additional in-app purchases (such as offering keyboard themes). Plus, says Singh, theymay look at providing custom actions and workflows to enterprise users as a thirdrevenue stream.At launch, ReBoard supports the following 18 in-keyboard actions: