The copy-and-paste generation has another tedium-busting digital tool in its arsenal: RefME is a book-barcode scanning app that speeds upthe task of creating,formatting and managingcitations, references lists and bibliographiesof academic source material.The app, available on the web as well as on iOS and Android, has been winning friends among students and academicssince it launched its free service back in January. The London-based startupsays its picking up an average of 10,000 new users per day, with800,000 registered users in total at this point. User growth thus far has been through some targeted digital marketing focusing on university campuses and via word of mouth.RefME takes the tedium out of creating reference lists by letting users either scan a books barcode with their smartphone to grab the relevant info, or doing a manual search for the book title, author or ISBN number and having the app generate the citation.Notes and quotes can be added to reference list items. And lists are synced via RefMEs cloud service so they can be worked on from different devices.As well as the usual suspects of books and journals, RefME supports a wide range of other reference types such as films, webpages, speeches, interviews, legal cases and more. It also supportsautomating citations in more than 7,000 academic formats. So, in short, thats a whole lot lessthesis-based headache.Co-founder Ian Forshewsays the productsits between legacy referencing tools such as Endnote, which were designed for a really nicheresearchermarket, and more simple citation tools that can only cope with one or two of the citation formats and are not necessarily that accurate.I think were the first out and out tech company that has gone after trying to solve this problem in a really tech way  of creating a really user friendly, super accurate citation tool, he adds.RefME is announcing a $5 million seed funding round today, led by education giant GEMS Global, itself owned by private K-12 education company Varkey Group, which put in$4 million of thefinancing. The other $1 million was raised in January 2014 from angel investors but is being announced now.The startupsays it will be using the seed funding toinvest in its engineering and data teams it currently has a team of 36 in its London officeand scale its global presence. It will also be raising a Series A soon. Its very much a go faster plan because of the size of the market, says Forshew.How does a free referencing tool becomea money-making business? In a word: data. RefME is focusing on vertical search and ongarnering valuable intel on the reference works that students are using most  analytics whichit will be able to feed back touniversities, institutions and publishers down the line. It arguesuniversitiesare spending millions per year buying textbooks without having good visibility on which books are most useful.What were doing is crowdsourcing validated knowledge, Forshew tells TechCrunch. Our users are pinpointing where they find information thats useful to them. We then have a lot of context around their behaviors, the notes theyre making about that information, where they go after theyve found that information, the impact it has on their learning outcomes.And then were using it to provide a huge amount of value to the education world  to further education institutions. To publishers. But also, more widely, it has the impact to have a pretty fundamental change to the way people search  because were able to tell people, or almost predict, the information thats most useful for them. So rather than giving them 40,000 results like Google could, we could say if these are the things youre doing this is the piece of information you next need.RefME is sourcing reference data from various public and non-public databases, according to Forshew, but is also building its own database with the aim of fixing inaccuracies in publishers databases by noting crowdsourced changes  so, for instance, where multiple users are making the same edits to a citation.Weve built our own API that looks across dozens of different databases, publisher databases or open source databases  some of which we license, some of which are freely available. The interesting thing that were doing is building our own database because each of these different sources are often incorrect and its actually a really big problem in the world of knowledge management, where this information is coming from, because the publishers data is incorrect. So what we do is crowdsource to build the perfect database.Should Google be concerned, given the precise data RefME is amassing  not to mentionthe scope of the market (Forshew talks about targeting300 million students globally)?Were certainly doing some things that they dont do, and that were uniquely positioned to do because of the nature of the data we have, he says. Theyre definitely interested in what were doing.RefME has huge potential to disrupt education, publishing and ultimately search as well, addsSunny Varkey, group chairman and founder of GEMS Education and Founder of Varkey Foundation, in a statement.RefME learns what students and researchers all around the world discover and has the power to share this information.RefME has built a tool that helps validate information and ultimately shows where youve found knowledge. This is as important to education as it is to the web itself, and that is very compelling!