RelayRides, the six-year-old, San Francisco-based peer-to-peer car rental service, has justrebranded itself as Turo. The company is also announcing $47 million in Series C funding led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.The combined announcement is meant to grab attention. Turo doesnt disclose the number of people using its platform or the number of carscurrentlyavailable to renters. But the company says that 60 percent of its revenue now comes from out-of-town travelers who are renting the cars of peoplewho are themselves flying out of town.And it wants to take the trend global, thus the name. CEO Andre Haddad says it evokes both touring, or, in Italian, turismo.The shiftmakes sense. There are plenty of hassles involved in airport parking, from the typicaldrive to the far-flung lot to thebig parking tab. Cars are also depreciating assets from which more owners could easily wring money.Turo isntnot alone in trying to capture people who are willing to hand over their car keys for a little more spending money. Among its other competitorsare GetAround and Flightcar, a company whose major restructuringwe wrote about last month.Still, there are differences. Whereas GetAround rents cars by the hour or day, Turo requires a one-day minimum and saystheaverage rental period is 5.5 days.WhereasFlightcars users never meet a car owner  cars are brought to rentersvia airport valets  Haddad says that connecting people directing is its secret sauce. It helps people feel that they can trust one another more.Indeed, as with traditional car rental companies, Turoinvites both car owner and renterto examine a car together, noting its mileage, how much gas is in the tank, and any preexisting damage to the vehicle. Haddad insists this is also an ideal opportunity for both sides to bond.Haddad concedes that Turo is also testing valets as a complementary service at bothSFO and LAX.Mostly, though, the 110-person company is focused on getting itself into foreign markets next year so it canbetter eat into the market share of traditionalcar rentalgiants like Enterprise, which did $18 billion in sales last year.Its newfunding should help with getting the word out as well as with hiring. Though Turosays it hasgrown its user base 3.5 times over the previous year, itremains unprofitableoff three revenue streams. Ittakes 25 percent from each rental from the car owners (who set their own price); it collects another 10 percent of the total trip pricefrom those renting; anditgarners moneybycharging users for additional insurance protection. (Haddadsays 60 percent of rentersopt-in for more coverage.)Of course, if Haddadcan help it, the company will be in the black before too long. The global car rental market is almost $80 billion, he notes. We [in the U.S.] have $35 billion of that $80 billion, but the international piece is even bigger.Turo isnt announcing which markets were entering in 2016,Haddadadds. But well be in a number of them and well continue to consume capital while we [pursue] that multibillion-dollar opportunity.Turo has now raised roughly $101 million altogether, including from Canaan Partners,August Capital, Google Ventures and Shasta Ventures.You can check out its new promotional video here: