Indias e-commerce space might be about to get a shake-up after the government appeared to open the door to overseas entitiesowning majority stakes in domestic internet commercefirms.An announcement fromIndias Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) yesterday updated the countrysforeign direct investment (FDI) regulations to allow 100 percent FDI in B2C e-commerce. That potentially opens the floodgates for global retail players like Walmart, eBay and Alibaba to buy up e-commerce players in India and stake their claim tothe countrys $10 billion market, which is forecastto grow ten-fold to $100 billion by 2020.For context, India has strict rules around foreign involvement in retail. 100 percent FDI is banned for physical consumer stores  thats one reason why Apple, for one, has no independent retail footprint in the country  but it is allowed for B2B. 100 percent FDI had been outlawed for online commerce too, but yesterdays note looks to have lifted that barrier. (Small caveat: the rule is lifted for marketplace e-commerce only, but that covers Indias biggest firms.)Thechange  which, like all government notices, could be subject to interpretation  could foresee a wave of future investments and acquisitions as overseas firms finally have the ok to invest heavily and build out their own footprint in India. Many have already picked up stakes in Indias top e-commerce firms  Walmart has long been keen on India, eBay was an early Snapdeal investor, Alibaba has stakes in Snapdeal and Paytm, while Amazon has its own India-based entity  but now they can take majority holdings.The timing is notable too, since were insomething of a toughperiod for Indias top e-commerce firms, which are struggling to hold their valuations and attract new investor cash as they bid to compete with Amazon and each other with deep discounts and (apparently) escalating burn rates. A fresh influx of capitalcould be much welcomed, and it may not be limited to the top players, too.Niche and vertical online retailers, such as e-grocers BigBasket (which just raised $150 million), Grofers and PepperTap, baby product specialistHopscotch, and others like IPO-bound Shopclues, could be desirable for those looking in to India.There are some conditions to the new rules, though. For one thing, no single vendor on an e-commerce marketplace is allowed to account for more than 25 percent of sales. That could be problematic for Amazon, since its joint-venture Cloudtail is estimatedto account for at least 40 percent of Amazon Indias total sales, while Flipkarts largest retailer, WS Retail, is thought to bring in upwards ofone-quarter of its business.Also in the interest of competition and fair play, the government looks to be curbing the aforementioned culture of deep discounting products, according to one clause in its announcement:E-commerce entities providing marketplace will not directly or indirectly influence the sale price of goods or services and shall maintain a level playing field.This appearseasiersaid than done  how is it enforced, for example?  but it could potentially be transformational, since Flipkart, Snapdeal and Amazon offer lucrative promotions to lure both sellers and end consumers to their websites in the hope that, once a customer, they will return for repeat purchases. That could potentially serious level the playing field and reorder the status quo  at the minimum it will place new significance on the customer experience when theres no discount on offer to makethe pain of a bad experience bearable.Companies will compete on brand, quality of service, innovation, and not artificial prices. The way it's supposed to be! 2/2 Satyan Gajwani (@satyangajwani) March 30, 2016The new regulations are effective immediately, and it will be very interesting to see how long it takes before we see a tangible impact. So far, SnapdealCEO Kunal Bahlis the solee-commerce exec to come out in support of the news, but well keep our eyes peeled for further reactions.Great to see the guidelines around 100% FDI in ecomm marketplaces. Glad the govt recognises and supports an industry transforming India!  Kunal Bahl (@1kunalbahl) March 29, 2016Hat tip Pankaj Mishra