A study of the quality of policymaking in 40 cities around the world, considering how supportive city governments areto entrepreneurs and techstartups, has rankedNew York at the top of its innovationfriendly index, followed by London, Helsinki, Barcelona and Amsterdam. So Big Apple aside, the reportsuggests city policymakers across Europearegetting theirgrove on when it comes to digital thinking.The CITIE: City initiatives for technology, innovation and entrepreneurship report wascompiled by U.K. innovation charityNesta, partnering with management consultancy firm Accenture and smart cities organisation Future Cities Catapult.Itoffers a granularanalysis intended asa guide forcity policymakers aimingto foster local startup activity.The key questions the researchers considered were:is the city open to new businesses? Has the city put the necessary infrastructure in place to support tech startups? And does the city build entrepreneurship and innovation into its own operations and processes?How does onemeasure and rank amorphousconcepts like innovation and entrepreneurship? With great difficulty and subjectivity of course. The researchers behindthe 56-page report created a framework based on three overarching policy dimensions whichthey judgedcity governments have direct influence over (namely: openness, infrastructure and leadership), and under thatnine policy rolescitiescan adopt to foster startup activity.They then identified and measured 36 policy levers sitting withinthose areas, generating 1,440 original data points in the process of compiling the report observing whether, and if so how extensively each of the cities hadimplemented particular policies. They then slice and dice the results in variousways  not just offering theoverall city ranking noted above, but benchmarking cities across the nine roles (regulator, advocate, customer, host, investor, connector, strategist, digital governor, datavore). And dividing theminto different clusters, based on their thrust of their policy decisions. You can find the full report on the CITIE website.Cities andthe shared economyIts worth noting the coreconcept for the report came from both Nesta, specifically its director of government innovation John Gibson, a former policy advisor to the U.K. government, and also from Greg Marsh, the CEO of posh Airbnb collaborative consumption startup onefinestay. So the analysis has an inevitable bias towards shared economy startups  as Gibson himself readily admits when I discussed the findings with him.Theres a world of difference between an Uber for X business vs an Internet of Things device making hardware startup, for example. So thereport is benchmarking policy support fora particular sub-setof startups, as well it must given how much variety there is in the digital business space.In our report we used shared economy case studies to test how well theyre doing this. So we looked at private hire and we looked at shared lets. That was the things that we measured. But its not the complete picture, says Gibson, adding: We would never pretend that the city is able to completely dictate how the local tech community would fare.Still, he argues cities are being increasingly drawn into digital debates.Theres definitely other markets starting to arise where the city as a regulator becomes more important. I noticed recently that the Los Angeles City Council is considering a measure that would restrict the way that Waze, the traffic app, routes people around the city  after residents started complaining about cars being put onto quiet suburban streets. And so a slightly different market from onefinestay or Uber but another example of the city being drawn in to making decisions about the regulatory framework that will matter to the way that these kind of tech companies work.The research also steered clear of factoring inhot-button topics like house prices, or softer stuff like quality of life and cultural vitality, all of which can and absolutely doesinfluence whetherstartup founders choose to set up shop in a particularcity. But the intention was to restrict the analysis to core business policy, asGibson puts it, and concentrate on factors that city governments can more easily influence with policymaking.Its certainly the case that theres a degree of subjectivity in it We measured the quality of policy not the quantity of startups, headds.Although a city like Copenhagen, for example, if they do this well is unlikely to compete with San Francisco or New York in the near future, nevertheless they are able to be the best version of themselves, so to speak. They can create the best possible environment for their own ecosystem to grow.Amsterdam vs Berlin: A tale of two startup citiesDiscussingsurprises thrown up by the research,Gibson notesthe fact that the quality of policymaking in three less high profile (in terms of tech hub status) European cities  Helsinki, Barcelona and Amsterdam  ranked so highly in the index.Cities like Berlin and Tel Aviv and Seattle and Los Angeles that have much more established tech communities were somewhat lower down the list. And I think the reason for that is what we were measuring wasnt the quantity of tech companies or the volume of venture capital flowing through a city but rather the quality of the policy environment that was created by city government. So seeing those three cities up there was kind of a pleasant surprise, he says.What were inferring from this is that Amsterdam, Helsinki and Barcelona have got their policy set-up right in advance of having incredibly rich tech communities, he adds. So if our hypothesis is correct youd expect to see those three cities really start to boom over the next few years because theyve kind of got the infrastructure in place.Another observation triggered by the research is thatan absence of policymaking can also fosterstartup innovation aka thebenign neglect route.So rather than actively trying to createstartup-friendly policies, cities taking a hands off approach to regulation may also be helpful in attracting startup founders  whichGibson suggests may be whyBerlin, a noted European tech hub, has not ranked so highly in this analysis.Berlin was a bit of a puzzle for us. Its obviously one of the most vibrant communities in Europe at the moment. Its doing incredibly well, and it does okay in our scoring but its far from being one of the top performers. So we reached the conclusion in the end that the thing that makes Berlin quite attractive is almost the absence of government. Its the fact that theres loads of big old warehouses and low rent and not a lot of people around and you can tuck yourself in there and get on with it And thats been really great for them, he says.Because were measuring the role of government theres a tendency towards favoring activism to an extent  but Berlin is an interesting counter example that says actually government staying the hell away can be quite important too. It will be interesting to see how this plays out in the next few years in the sense that benign neglect probably has its limits, and if the government starts to get involved in heavily regulating the industries that havebuilt up there that could have a limiting impact on growth.And also you imagine that when other cities start to build up things like really high quality wireless infrastructure and brilliant walkable, connected city centers the neglect starts to become a limiter, Id have thought.Gibson directly contrasts Amsterdams extreme pro-activity in tech policymaking with Berlins hands off approach  adding it will be almost a competition between two philosophies of government to see which policy approachprevails over the longer term.Thinking big andsustainableSo what has New York been getting so right, according to this policymaking analysis? Its been focusing on tech investment for a long time, and thinking very big, says Gibson. They got this sooner than otherpeople. Having Bloomberg in charge was instrumental in that I think. They also just think big. They think big in a way that few others do  and so things like the redevelopment of Roosevelt Island is just on an impressive scale that its hard to see matched in other cities, he says.Focusing on the pipeline of skills is also something New York has been doing more recently that he reckons will bringsustainability to the homegrown tech ecosystem there. The new mayor de Blasio is taking it further His angle on this is about making the tech sector inclusive, and making sure the benefits of this success spread to different parts of the city. Hence getting kids up to speed in STEM skills. And thats a really smart thing to do. And youd imagine that over the next decade its that kind of investment that will see New York stick around at the top.Back over the pond,theres evidently alsoplenty of supportive action for startups going oninEurope  albeit without New Yorks head start, but able to follow the Big Apples lead.If you get under the hood of the data there are some cities in Europe that do this stuff really well. And are making some really bit commitments. And theyre very explicit about it. And its very interesting to see. Actually theres quite a lot of divergence in European scores across the data as a whole  whereas in North American theres much less variation. They tend to be sort of average and above. Europe tends to spread right the way across the distribution. But there is a lot of buzzy stuff going on in Europe, says Gibson.City government in Europe at the moment has definitely caught on to the idea that innovation and entrepreneurship are going to be important in the near future and theyre starting to invest a lot of time and energy in building good policy. Andtheyre also getting some good people into play. Amsterdams CTO is really great, and Paris has some great people working in their economy development office that are making really big progress.That said, he also points to the regulatory battlesongoing in certain European cities around on-demand services businesses such as Uber and Airbnb  characterizing those as warning signs for theregion if it wants to fulfill its potential here.Some European cities are struggling at the moment to figure out how they accommodate businesses like Airbnb and Uber. And its a shame, in some respects, because theres a plausible argument that says thatEuropean cities because theyre very high density relative to North American ones have some in-built natural advantage to these on-demand services. But if you then block them down with bad regulation youre not taking that opportunity thats presented to you by geography. So there are interesting warning signs on the horizon that will probably need to be dealt with if Europe wants to fulfill its potential here, he adds.Of course bad regulation is another subjective judgment  talk to the taxi industry in most of these citiesand they would likely complain that existing regulations are not being equally applied to startups, giving them an unfair competitive advantage. Itshow cities navigatesuchtricky two-sided debates, and implement level-headed policy that works for all the various urban stakeholders, thatremainsone of the biggest stories of the digital economy.