Some belt tightening underway at Zomato, the $1 billion+ restaurant discovery portalbased out of India that is now active in 22 countries. TechCrunch has learned, and has now confirmed with the company, that Zomato is laying off around 300 staff, or just under 10% of its current workforce of 3,000, as itlooks to cut costs inweaker parts of its business and shift more focusinto revenue-generating areas like reservations.Significantly, the cuts are signalling a shift in the companys strategy. A bulkof those layoffs will be in the U.S. and focused on content teams. These are the people (Zomans as they are called internally) who collect data from restaurants listed on the Zomato platform, and were the core of its original feet on the street business model that set it apart from the likes of Yelp with staff-curated information.As part of the shift, the company will be dividing its business into two areas, Enterprise and Full-Stack.The full-stack operations are markets where Zomato has determined that it is a market leader, and there it will continue to invest in a full range of services including live content collection and ad sales. Those markets will beIndia, the Middle East, South East Asia (the Philippines and Indonesia), and ANZ (Australia and New Zealand).The rest of the countries where Zomato operates will now be treated asenterprisemarkets. As CEO and co-founderDeepinder Goyal describes it in an internal memo obtained by TechCrunch, Enterpriseregions are the ones whereanyof the following is true: a) relatively small markets b) slow growth economies c) Zomato is not the dominant player.In these enterprise markets, the company will now focus mainlyon transactional businesses such as its Zomato Book reservations engine, with less focus onon-the-ground community building and marketing activities, Goyal wrote in the memo.This means that in these regions, our operations will need fewer people to run the show compared to the past.This will also help bring our burn rate down and, as we go along, make our businesses in these countries much stronger.We have embedded the fullinternal memo at the bottom of this post, but here is ourbetween-the-lines rundown of what is actually going on:The layoffswill specifically target the companys content teams  people who physically visit restaurants to amassdata for the Zomato platform. This includes opening hours, menus, pictures and other information about thefood, and so on.While Zomato has made eight acquisitions to date, including well-knownsites like Urbanspoon, a spokesperson tells me that these cuts are of Zomato staff that were grown organically  not targeting those who joined as a result of M&A.The cuts are not a result of Zomatos acquisitions, she said. Most of these people were hired after the completion of the acquisitions. However, over the last few months, we have been working hard to make sure that we prioritise our efforts, and the recent cuts are a step towards that direction.The cuts have been described to TechCrunch by a spokesperson as global and affecting all markets, but in practice they willbe concentrated in regions where there are more staff focused on collecting content.This will translateto more job cutsin theU.S. than elsewhere because the U.S. accounts for 700,000 of the 1.4 million restaurants listedthe Zomato platform. (In comparison, India only has 70,000 listings, Australia has 60,000 and the UK has20,000 listings.)The cuts in other countries will be not be a large number given the size of those markets, and have already happened or will happen early next week, the spokesperson said.The U.S.willsee a higher impact because the number of restaurants there is larger than in other countries.The challenge for the company has been thus: some 40% of the restaurants on Zomatos platform account for 92% of itstraffic, meaning that the data collection for the long tail of businesses in Zomatos database is unprofitable.The company started in 2008as a superchargedportal for restaurant search that went beyond basic names and addresses. Zomato staff would visit venues,collecting menus and photos that would be scanned and input into Zomatos larger database (think Google Maps roving carsbut for restaurants)which in turn would be used to power searches not only forcertainrestaurants but places where consumerscould go for very specific dishes, for example.This filled a niche: smaller and independent venues are not always up to date with their online presence (many dont even have websites today) and this provided a way to find them on the web.It also helped differentiate Zomato from the likes of Yelp and others that looped in crowdsourced information, which can be hard to verify as not being biased and more generally keep up to date.Initially Zomato relied on partners to fulfil any subsequent features beyond search, but, in a hunt for better margins, over time the company has moved to run more of those services itself. In other words, while Zomato originally built itself as an alternative to Yelp in its information, ultimately it followed a strategy taken by others in the space, putting it into more direct competition also with the likes of Groupon, Opentable and many more.For Zomato, additionshave included individually adding point of sale payment processing products, online ordering, delivery, and eventually a largerwhite-label service for restaurants to create and manage all of their online operations, from marketing and ordering through to payments and more.Now, itlooks like Zomato wants to shiftmore of itsdata collection for the less-trafficked venuesinto something that the restaurants will be able to maintain themselves.CEOs memo below.Hello all,Seven years ago, we started out as a pure-play restaurant directory for foodies in India. Now, we are in 22 countries across the world; we have organically launched and grown our business in 15 of them. In the other seven, we acquired the local leaders in our space to eventually move all their traffic over to Zomato, becoming the #1 player in those markets in the process. Today, foodies use us to look for great places to eat about 90 million times in a month. More than three quarters of these foodies visit us from outside of India.We made an important move in India a few months ago  launching our online ordering service. And we really kicked our competitions ass in this business with less than 0.1% of their marketing budgets. Why we were able to win? Because we have millions of users who already use us for ordering food over the phone. Now, they have started doing it online using our app. And there is a lot of growth still left, 92% of our users who search for delivery options on Zomato havent even started ordering online onZomato yet. Our ticket sizes are more than double our competitors  because our users are not using us for the discounts. They are using us for the convenience, and the product they already love Zomato for.Our users hold tremendous potential for transaction-based businesses. Getting into transactions was always the natural next step for our business. Online ordering is a natural and logical alternative for our users who, until now, used to call restaurants to place their orders for delivery. Table reservations fit into Zomato as easily as online ordering did. The time has come for us to focus deeply on transactions in countries where it matters.We are also going to have to make important changes to our business and make sure we put every dollar and every Zoman behind the things that matter the most. Here are two most important things you can expect.The next few months are going to be hard for all of us. But sticking together, hustling, and not spending time overthinking or being unnecessarily creative should get us to where we want to be.Please email me if you have any questions, or catch me anytime at the OHC officetomorrow happy to explain and go deeper into the whys of what we are doing.Cheers!