Evernote bought popular annotation appSkitch back in 2011 and, after incurring the wrath of loyal users for a series of unpopular updates, it is finally saying goodbye to it for goodafter announcing that it will end support for almost all versions of the service.As part of our promise to focus on improving the core Evernote experience, we are ending support for severalstandalone apps, Evernote said in a statement.Skitch is the highest profile casualty, but Evernotes Clearly reading extension and its Pebble app will keep it companyin the app after-life. Evernote Food, the companys dedicated recipe app, was shuttered at the end of September.Evernote said it is ending support for Skitch for Windows, Windows Touch, iOS, and Android on January 22. That means that they will no longer be available for download after that date. Each versionwill continue to workfor existing users but, because there is no longer ateam or resources dedicated toeachproduct, external changes like updates to your operating system or browser may break features or functionality at any point in the future, Evernote admitted.Slight caveat: Evernote said it will continue to offer Skitch for Mac for download and also provide support, too. (Presumably thats down to its sheer popularity, but itremains to be seen how long itwill live on for.)The move is sure to further anger any Skitch users who are left using the product  things havent exactly been smooth under Evernotes ownership  but the company downplayed these closures, saying that the staple features are already baked into its coreservice. (Weve heard this argument before and it rarelyassuages disappointed users.)Weve incorporated many of the best features of Skitch and Clearly in our core applications. Skitch users will find nearly identical annotation functionality in the Evernote Windows and iOS apps. And the article simplification features from Clearly are available in our Web Clipper. People with Pebble watches can find similar Evernote features with the Powernoter app.Improving the core experience is one argument for shutting down these apps, but another is thatis that Evernote  a company that is in crisis following the departure of long-time CEO Phil Libin and exit of other execs like COO Linda Kozlowskithis year  is cutting its costs in the wake of faltering subscription numbers and giving its core app, which hasbarely advanced in terms of featuresin recent times.January 22 is the deadline for getting these apps if you want them. But, be warned, they will be living on borrowed time going forward.