Ray Tomlinson, one of the pioneers of email, has passed away at the age of 74, according to reports in Australia.New York-born Tomlinson is best known for selecting the @ symbol to connect ausername with the destination address email, making ita central part of the communications process. While working forBolt Beranek and Newman, the company that developed the first program for sending network email, Tomlinson chosethe symbol  which was fairly obscure at the time  todifferentiate local and global emails on a list. From there, it became the designation for address formats, which exploded asemail went global as a communications medium.In a 2012 interview with Wired, Tomlinson explained his choice:I looked at the keyboard, and I thought: What can I choose here that wont be confused with a username? Tomlinson remembers. If every person had an @ sign in their name, it wouldnt work too well. But they didnt. They did use commas and slashes and brackets. Of the remaining three or four characters, the @ sign made the most sense. It denoted where the user was  at. Excuse my English.Tomlinsons invention has had a larger modern-day impact too, shaping social media services like Twitter and Facebook,where @ is universally synonymous with direct communication with an individual.In a biography, the Internet Hall Of Fame praisedthe impact of Tomlinsons work:Tomlinsons email program brought about a complete revolution, fundamentally changing the way people communicate, including the way businesses, from huge corporations to tiny mom-and-pop shops, operate and the way millions of people shop, bank, and keep in touch with friends and family, whether they are across town or across oceans. Today, tens of millions of email-enabled devices are in use every day. Email remains the most popular application, with over a billion and a half users spanning the globe and communicating across the traditional barriers of time and space.Fellow Internet pioneer Vint Cerf and Googles Gmail team were among the many to paytribute to Tomlinson.Thank you, Ray Tomlinson, for inventing email and putting the @ sign on the map. #RIP Gmail (@gmail) March 6, 2016Very sad news: Ray Tomlinson has passed away. https://t.co/Ghi8B2m3IX vinton g cerf (@vgcerf) March 5, 2016I worked with Ray Tomlinson at BBN. While known for the '@' in e-mail, he contributed much more than that. Sad news. https://t.co/HT2wWeLusr Mudge (@dotMudge) March 6, 2016Heres Tomlinsons induction to the Internet Hall Of Fame in 2012: