Rise made its name in the world of healthapps as a platform for people to connect with human coaches, to help them tailor their lifestyle and eating choices tolose weight. Now, Riseis adding in a new featurethat it hopes willhelp itscale to a much bigger audience.Today, the company is taking the wraps off of CoachLine, a new real-time personal assistant that will let anyone  either existing Rise subscribers or simply any consumer via SMS  connect with ateam of human advisorsworking in a machine learning framework to get food advice on the fly.CoachLine is based around the technology that came to Rise through the acquisition of HealthyOut in August. The advisors are nutrition experts, similar to thosewho provide coachingservices on the main Rise app.CoachLine has been operating in a closed beta,and today its becoming available to all users through the app andSMS service via(402) 965-0252. The Rise folks have made theservice FREE for anyone who wants to use it without an account until 9PM Pacific Time today. And TechCrunch users want to try it for a week can sign up and use the promotional codeTECHCRUNCH. The one-week offer will be open to the first 500 TechCrunch readers who are interested.Otherwise,you either get the service as part of your Rise subscription  $48permonth or $120 for three months  or you can subscribe just for the CoachLine service at $9/month.What can you ask? Some examples: youmight want to know what you canorder to eat tonight if you are going to a specific restaurant and want to eat gluten-free (you can name any restaurant you want, wherever you are in the U.S.). Or you can text a list of items in your fridge to get a suggested recipe texted back to you.Although we have seen a lot of growth (and growing sophistication) in AI-based services that perform automatic actions based on human requests,Rises turn to a blended solution doesnt come in a bubble.Facebook M, the new personal assistant app from the social network; appsfrom Flipboard and Apple; and others all combine human interaction with AI engines to improve their responses. The idea hereis that the app in question will learn more and more over time to make the AI element increasingly accurate, and the human touch helps make sure the AI is more personal.For Rise, this will give the company a route to growing the app in two different ways. First, it will mean that the startup could serve more requests to more users without having to enlist as many human advisors. The other is that through the SMS feature, it will give it a way of engaging with casual consumers who in turn potentially could convert into becoming regular paid subscribers over time.Having real-time advice for how to eat better matches the on-demand, real-time aspect of how many people engage with eatingin the modern world. There may be aslow food movement underway, but there is also an ever-growing number ofapps that helpyou order whatever food you might desire to come to you wherever you are.And thats before you consider the proliferation ofjunky food that you can go out and buy the old-fashioned way.Suneel Gupta, the co-founder of Rise, says that the average person makes 35 choices per week on average about what to eat, making the chanceof bad choices high for busy people.But at the same time, there has been a growing awareness of the ill effects of makingpoor casualeatingchoices. While the main Rise app may be best for people who are trying to make a concertedcommitment to changing their eating habits, CoachLine speaks more to those spontaneous moments.Gupta also tells me that Rises own research pointed to this demand. Weve talkedto other on-demand answer services like Magic and found that, What should I eat, and food in general is a common category for questions.Check out the interview with Gupta we did at Disrupt below for more.