If its up to Robotbase,youll soon be coming home and a robot will greet you at the door. While you were away, the Robotbase Personal Robot patrolled your home, made sure the temperature was lowered when you left, maybe locked the door after you were gone and, through its built-in camera, allowed you to check in on your dog, too.Robotbase is officially launching its Kickstarter campaign today with an appearance from of our CES Battlefield judges today.As Robotbase CEO Duy Huynh told me, the companys mission is to build a platform for an autonomous robot with plenty of sensors, advanced computer vision and a good dose of artificial intelligence built-in so it cant just react to what youre telling it to do, but also proactively alert you and handle tasks quietly in the background.In its current form, the Robotbase is a 4-foot tall robot thatsits on a wide base with a telescopingarm that holds its screen, camera and other sensors.Huynh likened it to a really smart smart-home hub that goes beyond the standard tasks of those devices because it cant just aggregate data from those tools, but also move around your home.What really sets Robotbases efforts apart, however, is what the team calls talents. These are basically apps you can install on the Gen X. Say you are having a party. The Personal Robot, with its built-in image recognition skills and camera, can become your party photographer.Huynh also told me that the company is working on a security guard skill that will have the robot patrol your home and a storyteller talent for lazy parents. Using that skill, the robot can tell your kids a bedtime story while you arespending some quality time with your Netflix queue. Once the robot notices your child has fallen asleep, it can turn off the light and roll back to its base station to charge.The company purposely gavethe robot a rather bland name  the Artificial Intelligence Personal Robot  because it wants people to name the robot themselves in order to personalize the experience. Users will also be able to create the faces that will pop up on the screen.The robot will feature an always-on listening mode, whichHuynh hopes will make it feel more natural for people touse voice to interact with it. Using its natural language processing skills, the systemcurrently allows for some basic back-and-forth conversations. There will also be a touch interface on the screen and the team is working on gesture control, too (though that isnt quite ready yet).AsHuynh admitted, its not easy to build thiscombination of speech recognition, natural language processing and computer vision, but he also believes that his team can overcome most of them.These used to be really hard problems, he said. But with deep neural networks, this is now much easier. He also sees this as a platform. The software can always be updated, after all.The core of the robot is built around anNvidiaTegra K1 chip that handles most of the computation  all of which happens on the unit and not in the cloud. It will include sensors to measure temperature, barometric pressure and CO2, as well as a smell sensor to alert you when it finds a potential gas leak.The company hopes to eventually sell its robot for under $1,500  and maybe even $1,000. The Kickstarter campaign starts at $995 (limited to the first 50 backers). Itll likely go on sale by the end of 2015 andwhile Robotbase plans to sell directly to consumers, it is also exploring relationships with brick-and-mortar retailers.Huynh has a background in manufacturing and ran a factory and global sourcing business with more than 400 employees in the past.Thanks to this experience, he has the contacts to source components directly, which should help keep the price low.For now, the company is focusing on the consumer version of the Personal Robot, but the company has also seen some interest from business customers who want to test the robotin their stores, for example.You can find Robotbases Kickstarter campaign here.