Rocket Internets Global Fashion Group (GFG), an umbrella group that houses the German companys fashion-focused e-commerce services for emerging markets, madea double announcement today after revealing that it secured150 million ($167 million) in fresh funding and acquired two Rocket Internet-backed companiesin Brazil.The group, which was formed when five Rocket-backed companies combined last September,raised $35 million as recently as April. That April raise was carried out at a valuation of2.8 billion/$3 billion. Now, with two more portals under its belt, GFG has an implied post-money valuation of 3.1 billion, or$3.45 billion.Thenew capital is led byexisting investorsKinnevik and Rocket Internet and will gotowards general costs and expandinglogistics, the company said.The proceeds will mainly be invested to strengthen GFGs fulfilment, marketing and product development as well as to build the infrastructure to capitalize on the synergies between GFGs online fashion businesses in Latin America, Middle East, Russia & CIS, India, South East Asia and Australia, the organization said in a statement.On the other side of the news, GFG has picked up sports and outdoor activities commerce companyKanui, and kid/baby-focused online retailerTricae. Both the deals are undisclosed  GFGcalled the terms attractive  and the two Brazil-based business will be integrated intoDafiti, the groups e-commerce site operating in Latin America.Important caveat here though, these acquisitions area more like consolidation plays from Rocket Internet. The German organization poured $6.5 million into Tricae in 2012, its investment in Kanui is not disclosed.GFG did provide some figures for its new acquisitions. It said that Kanui grossed more than30 million (around $33 million) in 2014. Tricae, it claimed, generated over20 million ($22 million) in revenue. Missing here, of course, are details of profitability/loses, but the point is that these services are not immature and will add to GFGs presence in Brazil.In addition toDafiti, GFG includes Namshi (Middle East), Lamoda (Russia), Jabong (India) and Zalora (Southeast Asia). That gives it reach infour continents and 27 countries, across whichthe organization said it employs 9,500 people.Following todays announcement, Rocket Internet  which incubated the company  now owns24.2 of the company. Thats important to note, since it seems increasingly likely that GFGs exit will be via an IPO, the same route that Rocket Internet itself took when it listed in its native Germany last October. Indeed, the fact that GFGs largest investors led this round  which is significantly smaller than past investments in GFG companies  suggests that an IPO is closeand that existing shareholders are maneuveringthemselves and their investments in preparation for that exit.Weve asked Rocket Internet for comment on a potential listing  dont hold your breath on anything but no comment  but for now the company is talkingup the potential of e-commerce in emerging markets,which includes many countries where the likes of Amazon, Alibaba and others are yet to enter.We continue to be very excited about the prospects of international online fashion and GFG in particular. Romain and his team have made great progress in integrating the international businesses and the acquisitions of Kanui and Tricae will add further to GFGs presence and ability to realize synergies,Oliver Samwer, CEO and founder of Rocket Internet, said in a canned comment.