Rocket Internet  the Berlin-based startup incubator that went public in October 2014  is today adding more muscletothe Global Fashion Group, a cluster of five of its emerging marketfashion sites that consolidated into onebigger operation last September. The GFG has raised 32 million ($35 million) at a 2.8 billion ($3 billion) post-money valuation, and it now has its own CEO  Romain Voog, who jumped from his former role as the head of Amazon France to lead the group.The developments at GFG speak to how Rocket Internet and GFGsother shareholders  the three largest investors are Kinnevik (25.1%), Rocket (23.5%) and Access Industries (7.4%)  are looking for better economies of scale in its operations.GFG brings togetherDafiti (Latin America), Jabong (India), Lamoda (Russia and CIS), Namshi (Middle East) and Zalora (South East Asia and Australia)  fashion portals that effectively do the same thing as each other. Eachsite offers amix of apparel and accessories from a mix of brands that are popular everywhere, alongside items that are particular to eachlocal market; and increasingly a selection of private-label (own-brand) items.While GFG is currently valued at 2.8 billion ($3 billion) and is collectively approaching 5 million active subscribers, Nils Chrestin, GFGs new CFO (who comes over from Lamoda) said that none of theindividual operations are yet profitable.The freshfundingfrom Tengelmann Ventures and Verlinvest announced today will be used to change that. The GFG plans to invest in growing higher-margin services like sellingprivate label items; as well as in making deals for stockand investing in operations that could apply across the whole group. While there were already some aspects of this already in place when the startups were separate entities, thisis fundamentally a change from how things were run before, Chrestin said.We operate in quitechallenging and not necessarilysuper similar markets. The consumer markets can be similar but the realities are not, he said of the reason Rocket Internet originally developed the businesses as separate entities. Call centers, the paymentmethods, the languages, and the local production capabilities for private labels are all variables. Initially it was all quite a headache. Last-mile delivery infrastructure wasnt on the agenda originally, for example.But now that the basics have been figured out, its time to try to make the operations more efficient. Now were in more stable waters, a couple of years in, he said.Part of the reason for the lack of profitability is because it often takes a long time for e-commerce startups to tip into black, and that will be the case perhaps even more for the GFG businesses, which operate in emerging markets.The idea here is that the consolidation could help speed this up. We have been investingin building a large and loyal customer base, and a large part of our expenses go into marketing. We aregrowing fastand want to make sure we can build the business, he said in an interview. But Ithink absolutely that operating as GFG theseoperations can become profitable sooner. This will have a positive impact.Romain Voog, the new CEO, is coming to GFG after seven years with Amazon, where he was leading the companys operations in France (not a small task considering some of the controversy Amazon has faced there). Before that he was an exec with the large French retailer Carrefour. When he suddenly departed Amazon in March, there were rumors that it was to join Rocket Internet  which have now provento be correct.The GFG collectively covers23 countries with2.5 billion people. Together, the footprint is estimated to have a fashion market value of 330 million. The $32 million, in one regard, is a drop in the ocean for GFG: collectively the individual regional operations in the GFG have raised hundreds of millions in funding over the years.