Roger, a walkie-talkie-style voice messaging app that launched in late 2015, has landed a $1 million seed round led by Social Capital.Voice messaging  known as push-to-talk  is nothing new. It originated in China in response to the complexities of punching out Chinese characters for text messages and the rise of blockbuster chat app WeChat. Voice messaging feature is supported in almost every mainstream messaging app  including WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, iMessage, Line and more  but the habit hasnt really stuck with smartphone owners outside of Asia.Thats where New York-based Roger, which was founded by ex-Spotify engineersRicardo Vice Santos and Andreas Blixt,hopes to make a dent. (The founders past employment also explains why the six angel investors who also took part in the round are all former Spotify executives.)The app  which is initially for iOS with an Android version in beta  is beautifully designed and made with simplicity in mind. You select a friend to message and then simply click the large button to begin recording.Thats how the basics work.Vice Santos, who is Rogers CEO, said the company has deliberately built the app to ensure that the experience is spontaneous. For example, you cant cancel a recording once you start. While userscant hear their own voice, since people often detest doing so, while you cant save messages that are received from others. In a nice touch, the service can link up to iMessage to send messages to those without app, they can listen to your message via a link that loads a web-based recording.Theoverall objective is how do we get people to talk more often, Vice Santos told TechCrunch in an interview  using Roger, of course.There are already [push-to-talk] solutions [available], but we werent using any of them. So we asked ourselves: Can we do this dead simple thing to talk and reach anyone with an app? he added.The idea literally hit Vice Santos whenhe bumpedinto a pole while walking and texting a friend in Sweden. Roger isnt saying how many people are using the app right now  Vice Santos said upwards of thousands in over 60 countries  but he stressed that the key metric is usage and conversation threads, rather than sheer numbers.As for making money, that isnt a focus at this point.Monetizing too early can damage the platform. We want to grow the platform and return to this topic late, Vice Santos explained. More than the money, having Social Capitalinvolved [is important.] The things that [CEOChamath Palihapitiya]has been doing areabout behavior changing  creating something people arent asking for, yet you change. Were about getting people to use voice again.Phone calls are declining as communication increasingly moves to messaging, but texting lacks nuanceand context, Palihapityasaid in a statement.With Roger, Ricardo andteam have built a beautiful app that takes the best aspects of these two mediums, creating a conversationplatform thats far more dynamic and personal.One area where we can expect Roger to make changes is around the contextual information inside of the app, known as glimpses. Right now, the app can display the location, weather and an indication of the time of day fortheperson you are messaging with, and the team plans to develop this concept further. Thats important, Vice Santos told us, because this information can be a real conversation starter.He added that the companys multi-national team  which includes people from Portugal (Vice Santos), Sweden, Singapore and India  and the need to communicate with family overseas puts the company in a good position for futureproduct development and ideas.We have family in lots of places and are big consumers of the app so we know it how it could be better and what opportunities there are, Vice Santos said.(Bonus: If you just downloaded Roger, you can set up a profile page with your own greeting message  mine is here, for example. Simply choose a username inthe Settings menu inside the app, then go to the People tab and search for greeting. Once your new friend loads, leave a messagefor greeting and that will be set as the default recording for your online URL, which will berogertalk.com/<your username>. )