Investorsare throwing someserious money at enterprise backupthese days. If you want proof, look atRubrik, a startup that has developeda hybrid cloud and on-premises backup solution. Itlanded $40million in Series B today.The round was led byGreylock Partners with participation from Lightspeed Venture Partners and existing angel investors itchose not to name. Todays investment brings the total over two rounds to an impressive $51millionin just 15 months since its launch.This is for a company with just 40 employees and 20 early access customers. Apparently,investors see serious potentialhere. It might not hurt that company co-founder and CEOBipul Sinha is a former partnerat Lighspeed Venture Partners, one of the investors in his company, and knows his way around venture capital.Rubrikhas come up with a way for large enterprise customers  think 1000 or more employees  to solve what it sees as a hybrid backup problem, especially the cloud side of the equation. It is attacking this problem with ahardware solution, it calls the r300 Hybrid Cloud Appliance to help companies manage backup across on-premises data centers and public cloud storage solutions.Sinha began thinking about enterprise backup because he saw a landscape that was ripe for change. We were investigating the space and found that a majority [of larger companies] are on-premises, thinking about cloud. He saw an opening, especially since as he pointed out potential customers need to figure out how to recover files in an efficient way to make publiccloud economics work for them.The applianceincludes the standard features you would expect in a backup solution such as policy setting, deduplication and search. What seems to separate it from the pack is the zero-time restores  being able to requesta file stored in the cloud and get it back instantly without latency.His company moves data from the appliance to the cloud fully indexed, meaning its searchable. Customerscan use that search tool to find, then move a singlefilefrom the cloud very quicklyIn his view, the public cloud services like Amazon Web Services dontwork asbackup for serious enterprises because of recovery times. You can back up to cloud but not recover from it, he said. What we have done is allowed businesses to use public cloud in a secure way without sacrificing speed to recovery.While Sinha believes his company is offering something unusual here, there are competitors in this space including Druva, a cloud company which offers a number of similar services. There are also more traditional vendors like CommVault and EMC. Although these companies offer a similar-sounding offerings,he doesnt see them asseriouscompetition to his companys solution.Sinha insists what separates him from these offerings is the recovery speed, and apparently that is a big differentiator.The company wants to expandits go-to market ability and begin to scale its offering with the new cash. It takes money to build and market a solution like this and Sinha hopes to use the money to significantly increase the companys marketsover the coming years.