Its an odd feeling to come from California, one of the worlds most prodigious economies where theinfrastructure and public systems are simultaneously falling apartin plain view, and arrive in the tiny, landlocked East African country of Rwanda.The first thing you notice is how exceptionally clean thestreets of Kigali appear. Thats becauseof a banon non-biodegradable plastic bags. Oncea month, most Rwandans are required to participate in community service dayscalled umuganda, whentheyclean public spaces. Unlike other African capital cities, its perfectly safe to walk around alone at night.But more deeply, Rwanda is one of the most stunning and fervently debatedturnarounds of the last two decades. Now the 12 million-person countryis positioning itself as a Singaporean-like knowledge and technology hub of the African continent.The thing is, itsnot unreasonable thatthis plancould work.The countryis at the forefront of a broader story of economic growthacross Sub-Saharan Africa, which has the potential torepeat the trajectory that pulled hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in both East Asia and Latin America.The governmenthasbuilt at least 4,500 kilometers of fiber-optic cable to bring broadband access to Rwandans across the country and aims to produce 100 technology companiesvalued at more than $50 million by 2030with a new $100 million venture fund.Earlierthis fall, an e-government portal called Irembo opened, allowing Rwandans toapply and pay for drivers licenses through their mobile phones. (Take that, DMV.)Literallydown the road fromtheKigali Genocide Memorial is a Whatsapp hair salon.Africa can no longer be excluded from globalization, said Paul Kagame, the countrys president at a Kigali technology conference when I popped into the country earlier this fall. We can develop our human capital and productivity using the same methods that are taken for granted in many other places.This is a world apartfrom a little more than 20 years ago. In 1994, the country was pulled apartby a genocide that left close to1 million people dead in 100 days. It was the eruptionof a long-simmering ethnic conflict seeded in theBelgian colonial era.In the aftermath, Rwanda only opened its first computer science programin 1998 with a single lab wherethe university department had to fly in South Africans to teach localshow to maintain and operatePCs.We hadthis challenging moment in our history  the genocide, said Clement Uwajeneza, whose company Rwanda Onlineis building the e-government portal Irembo.After that, we had what I call a liberation period. We had to go through thisreconciliation and healing process. In this period, we already this spirit of going beyond ourselves  to act not in revenge and not to maintain this social and ethnic unrest. People had to go beyond themselves. In that, the new Rwanda started to take shape.Students from the Gashora Girls Academy, show off an Arduino Breathalyzer test and a mobile app called SheSafe, that lets women share their locations with trusted friends and family to make sure they get home safely.WhenI was therea month and a half ago,Imet a dozen teenage girls from the Gashora Girls Academy and another school,Lycee de Kigali.One group had builtan Arduino-based Breathalyzer test. Another had created an app called SheSafefor women to share their location as they walk home at night and another group had made a piece of hardware called Touch of Life totrackbus boardings to improve local transit systems.When you apply what you learn, you know you canmakesomething thatis going toimpact our society, said Ariane Kangabo,an 18-year-oldwho hadworked on theapp tofor women to get homesafely.Women hold a special place in post-1994 Rwanda. They make up close to two-thirds of the countrys parliament, as the countrys Constitution mandates that women make up at least 30 percent of position in governmental decision bodies. The countrys ICT and Youthministry is also studying how to close gaps in rural broadband access between men and women.Women are change agents in the family. Our challenge is to get more of them digitized, enabling access to mobile money, said Cynthia Gordon, who oversees the African markets for Millicom, which runs the mobile service provider Tigo.An Emerging Entrepreneurial SceneTaking a cue from neighboring Kenya and its well-known iHub in Nairobi, Rwandas ministry of youth and information technology opened a co-working and accelerator space called kLab in the capital. Even though the countrys budget is still 30 to 40 percent dependent on aid,there is an almostspiritual zeal for the virtue of private capital.The country has itsown version of Shark Tankcalled Face The Gorillas.At one taping this fall, two Rwandan hackers, Patrick Muhire and Ceddy Muhoza, pitched VugaPay, a mobile money app that is inter-operable between all of the carriers. They immediately received and agreed to an investment on the spot.We are the lucky generation. Our parents suffered a lot, but theygave us the strength to never look behind again, said Jean Niyotwagirawho founded Torque, a SAAS platform for managing last-mile distribution of goods likeHeineken beer or soft drinks in far-reaching areas acrossthe country. The Rwandan people know what it means to have everything you worked for destroyed and to startfrom zero.Niyotwagirafirst used the Internet in 2000, when his dad brought home an old MS-DOS computer.It had a command line interface, but they had a few books at home.QBasic was my first programming language, hegrinned.I loved it very much.Some entrepreneurs arereturning from years abroad in the West. Louis-Antoine Muhireremembershiding in a car while trying to flee the country as a child. He had facial features that would be perceived as Hutu, while he says his brother looked more Tutsi. While there were more than a dozen clansprior to colonialism, a strong sense of ethnic difference did not reallybecomeamplifieduntil the Belgian regime began issuingidentity cards in the1930s thatseparated Rwandans into Hutus and a ruling Tutsi class, sowing the rootsof a rivalry for power and resources that has torn the country apart in multiple conflictsthroughout the 20th century.When I left, it was hell on earth. I was so traumatized that I didnt want anything to do with Rwanda, Muhiresaid. But after years in Canada, I was asking myself. Which country do I really belong to? Do I belong to Canada? Do I belong toRwanda?He came back for the first time a year ago,I was shocked to see how the city had changed. Muhire moved back to Africa, and started Mergims, a remittances platform that lets the Rwanda diaspora directly pay bills for family back home. The startupis onto an idea that other remittances companieslike YC-backed and Latin America-focused Regalii are addressing inswitching to direct payment of utility or school billsfrom pure cash transfers. They call it productized remittances.Its important to note that thisnascent privately-run tech sceneis mirrored byloads of government support and investment. Its essentially an African version of the soft authoritarian approach to governancepioneered by Lee Kuan Yew in Singapore, and copied later by mainland China. (Kagame occasionally dropstweets about his meetings with Singaporean ministers.)Every five years, the country hashes outa nationwideinformation technologies plan. From 2000 to 2005, it focused on basic infrastructure. From 2005 to 2010, it was advanced infrastructure and last-mile connectivity. In this cycle, its about promoting applications and entrepreneurship on theback of this broadband and 4G connectivity.We do want to see the private sector taking a leading role. But thegovernment is in the business of providing an environment for the private sectorto flourish, said ICT MinisterJean Philbert Nsengimana, who happened to be one of the countrys first computer science students more than 15 years ago. That often requires government to intervene  for instance, to push access where the private sector is not going for the greater benefit of citizens. By theirnature, corporationstend to maximize their profitand some of the time, thatmay not be to the greater benefit of everyone. Themechanisms that make sure that everyone benefits have to be put in place by the government.The rush to be a technology hubon the African continentstems from the reality that Rwanda lacks the resources andcommodities that other neighboring countries do. Unlike bigger tech hubs on the continent in Lagos, Nigeria and Nairobi, Kenya, Rwanda isa tiny, landlocked country with just 12 million people.We have a lot of similarities withSingapore, South Korea or Israel.We dont have the naturalresources that you see fromother African countries like Nigeria, said Antoine Sebera, who came out of the countrys first undergraduate class of computer science students in the early 2000s and is now the chief human resources officer for Olleh, a mobile carrier.Ourbiggest wealth is in ourpeople. Were in a competitive world now. Its abouthow you outsmart others or find aniche where you excel. Everyone is a knowledge worker now.Democracy and DissentThe tightly government-controlled approached to ruling has invariably raised concerns about human rights and democratic participation.This week, the country will hosta referendum on a revised constitution thatwill pave the way for Kagame to run for a third term after15 years in power. Six ambassadors fromthe U.K., France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Sweden signed a statement raising concerns about Kagames human rights record last week.Whileinternally the country is secure, there have been questions about the governments incursions into the Eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo and whether internal political dissent isstifled.It poses challenges for U.S. foreign relations; the Obama administration has been more hesitant whileHillaryClinton and former president Bill Clinton have been involved in supporting Kagames efforts for years through the Clinton Global Initiative. There is a sense ofguilt on their part for not having intervened when thegenocide was taking place.Earlier this month, the U.S.s ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power, who wrote a book on the legal and justice implications of genocide in a A Problem FromHell, urged Kagame to step down at the end of his term and make way for a peaceful transition to a new generation of leaders.Nobody is indispensable, Power reiterated.We expect President Kagame to step down at the end of his term in 2017.Its worth mentioning that, unlikeotherAfricannation-states with more arbitrarily created borders, Rwanda has had a long history of centralized power and organized rule that pre-datesthecolonial era.And yet, to outside observers from the West,Rwandas political process is as unnerving as the countrys economic and technological progress is awe-inspiring and phenomenal.