Salesforce.comlifted the curtain on Salesforce Lightning today, the completelyredesigned version of its core CRM product. As is often the case with Salesforce, theannouncement included several pieces. At the same time, itannounced the first in a series of industry-specific CRM packages.The new version has been designed with a cleaner, more modern looking interface. It streamlines and updatesmany essentialCRM tasks, makingit faster and easier to visualize important data like how faryou are from your monthly salesgoals and your most important tasks to help you get there. The CRM toolis the first product built on the Lightning platform. Expect that over time the entire Salesforce product line willget a similar make-over.Todays package consists of three pieces with some clear branding goals: Lightning Experience, the new CRM tool; Lightning Design System with Lightning Components, which is the tools customization engine. Finally it includes Lightning App Builder, which builds upon the Salesforce 1 application development platform. It claims its an easier wayto buildapplications on top of the Salesforce CRM tool.Salesforce is the granddaddy of SaaS platforms, dating back to the late 90s. Its no longer the plucky upstart. In fact it joined the Fortune 500 this year for the first time. It earned $1.63 billion in revenue in the most recent quarterand is projecting a total revenue for this fiscalyear of over $6.6 billion.Perhaps the companydecided that, rather than resting on its laurels, it wastime for amajor makeover. Todays announcement is all about making the tool more modern. The interface is cleaner and designed to work across all screen sizes from computer or laptop to tablet, phone or even the Apple Watch.Salesforcelistened to customer feedback before redesigning the product, and incorporated much of what it heard, Sean Alpert, senior director for Sales Cloud told TechCrunch.What it heard was that busy sales people wanted access to essentialdata fasterin a visual form that made it easier to see at a glance what is important. They also wanted an interface that was flexible and highly customizable.Old interfaceNewly designed interfaceThe new version uses a navigation bar approach, abandoning the tabbed interface of the older model. It also has enhanced search to make it easier to move to functions by simply entering keywords a la Spotlight Search on the Mac.The visualizations throughout lean heavily on Salesforce Wave, the data visualization platform it introduced last year,and the design component enables customers to customize the interface for their organizations terminology and what each one considers most important.The company stresses that thisis more than simply rebranding. We think of this as a huge leap forward.Its notjust about repackaging and making new colors and buttons. We are rollingout 25 new features and functions to be more productive and go faster, Alpertsaid.Salesforce is allowing customers to choose when and how to roll out the new interface, rather than forcing them to upgrade all at once. Customerscan roll out on a limited basis if they wish before implementing it across the entire sales team.In addition, Salesforce introduced the first in a series of industry-specific CRM packages. The first one is called Salesforce Financial Services Cloud and it has been tuned specifically to the needs of a financial services sales team.This is similar in approach to Box for Industries introduced last year in which Box is designing a series of packages for specific industry verticals including financial services.These various pieces will be rolled out throughout the fall with the CRM partavailable in preview today andgeneral availability in October.