Not to be outdone on the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge leaks that were all over the Internets yesterday,Samsung haspublished an official launch websitefor its forthcoming pair of flagships which includes a new promo video for the S7 Edge with some heavy hints about features,along with some general themesSamsung ispushing for theS7 line.The companys previous teaser videofor the S7focused on its Gear VR platform.So what additional details can we glean? In the newvideo(embedded at the end of this post)  titled Get Ready for the #NextGalaxy  a handset that mightwell be the S7 Edge is shown getting heavily rained on, so check the box for water resistance/water-proofingDespite the 2014Galaxy S5 sportingwater resistance, last yearsS6 flagshipswere not officially water resistant; Samsung reserved that feature for another handset, theGalaxy S6 Active. Boo-hiss!But it looks likethe companyhas hada change of heart and will bebringing water-resistanceback to itsflagship line. Or at least to the S7 Edge. Lets hope so.The promo video also shows anunnamed devicestrapped to the arm of a runner  Indonesian archer, Dellie Threesyadinda  and being used in conjunction with SamsungsGear S2 smartwatchto monitorheart rate, sofitness unsurprisinglyremains a core focus. Albeit thats been true of Samsungs flagshipssince at least the S5, which came with a built in heart-rate monitor.Another feature brieflyflagged by Samsung in the videois wireless charging  albeit the companybuilt that into its S6 flagships last year, and has offered support for wireless charging via optional accessories for several generations of its flagship line, so nothing new to see here.Its more like Samsung hoping to finally get people excited about a feature that has failed to excite folksfor years nowFrankly speaking, current gen wireless charging isa roundly uninspiring technology. Charging technology that still requires you to placea device onto a charging pad is really no step up from having to plug in a device to charge it. When wireless charging works over the air, without any need for charger pads, then itwill finally be a tech upgrade worth having. But were not there yet.Samsungspromo video ends with a camera-related shot of the incoming device. Since smartphones are far morefrequentlyused to snap pictures nowadays vs time spent beingused as an actual telephone thats entirely as youd expect. Phones should really be renamed pocketcameras.One of the teaser slogans on the Samsung website  bring light to the night  alsoincludesa close up shotof a camera lens, suggesting further low light camera enhancements are incoming to the S7 line. This is also to beexpected, given that trying to squeeze ever better performance out of (relatively) tiny camera sensors has been an ongoing preoccupation of smartphone makers in recent years.The other Samsung S7 teaser slogans are a little underwhelming,including the awkwardly wordedworry-less discovery, which looks to be a reference tothe aforementioned waterproofing feature.Theres also the strangely worded experience privacy at its finest, which suggests Samsung might betaking a leaf out of Apples public pro-privacy stance. Which would bemore interesting. Or itmight be a ref to Samsungs long-standing Knox security platform.Well find out more on Sunday when the company does itsofficialunboxing.Judging by yesterdays S7-related leaks Samsungis not doing any kind of major redesign for its new flagships. Sothe unnamed handset shown in the videocould just as plausibly be the S6 Edge as the S7 Edge, albeit the intention is clearly to showcase features incoming in thenext generationmodels.What dont we see being flagged up in this latestpromo? Theres no sign of the slated pressure-sensitive screen. Nor an SD card slot, removable battery orUSB-C charger port. But the latter sort oftechie details arent how any company sells to the mass market so thats also to be expected. Still,hardcore Android fans should probably steel themselves to bedisappointed thatSamsung might not havehad a rethink on bringing user expandable memory back after all.And if Samsung is spending promo video time flagging up tired old wireless charging vs highlighting faster charging via USB-C, well, that faster chargingrumor might not come to pass either. Either way, its not long to wait for official confirmation.TC will be on the ground at Samsungs press conference in Barcelona on Sunday evening to get hands on with the new kit so stay tuned.