Samsung has inked a strategic partnership with European media giant Axel Springer. The pair announced the collaboration in a press release today, ahead of the IFA consumer electronicsconference where they will be showing off an early beta of their first jointly created app.The pair said they will work together on digital media offerings exclusively for Samsung customers, sayingthey willdevelop a range of creative new services to be brought to market in 2016 and beyond.Samsung confirmed to TechCrunch the partnership is solely focused on developing services for its European users.The initial service the pair are developing isan aggregated news content platform with the unlovely name of Upday. Itwill apparently be fully launched next year but an early beta version will be unveiled from this Thursday  available to select Samsung customers in Germany and Poland. (A full rollout in those markets, and elsewhere in Europe, is slated for early 2016.)Updaysounds as if it will be aggregating a variety of editorialcontent based on contextual signals available via mobile  such as user location and interests.The pair write:UPDAY will offer Samsung customers access to a range of news content that combines Need to Know information selected by a local market editorial team and Want to Know information, an algorithm-based service tailored to customers individual interests.Axel Springer confirmed Updayusers will have access to content outside itschurch of publications. A companyspokeswoman told TechCrunch: Upday not only aggregates Axel Springer-content but also content of a lot of other publishers.It is about distributing content of Axel Springer and other publishers to Samsung customers.The Want to Know component of Upday will offer content from non-Axel Springer publishers (we showsnippets and link to the websites, is how the spokeswoman describes this which, it must be said, is rather ironic, given Axel Springers long-running fight with Googles use of its own news snippets.Update:On the snippets point, the company notes further itwill be paying the ancillary copyright for press publishers, thats the difference [vs Google News].).The Need to Know component of the appwill involvecontent created by a dedicated editorial team  writing short summaries for the most important topics of the day, according tothe spokeswoman. These bespoke summaries will also link out to source websites so the user can presumably drill down if they want to read more.She declined to confirm whether Samsung is paying Axel Springer to produce editorial content for its devices but thats presumably a key plank of thedeal. So rather than Samsung tooling up with edit staff itself, a la Apple, its partnering with a publishing giant to get access to anexisting talent pool of pens.We dont give any details on financial issues. But of course, both partners are investing to develop and operate Upday, the Axel Springer spokeswoman added.Samsung Android OEM rival HTC has had a news and content aggregator on its devices for several years, of course. ItsBlinkFeed interface, which blends news, social content and other data like weather into a Flipboard-esque feed, was launched back in early 2013. However Samsung is evidently taking the personalized news feed concept a little further byofferingbespoke editorial content for its users.Meanwhile,back in June, Apple announced its own Flipboard clone thats coming in iOS 9: aka a news aggregator app (called News) thatwill source editorialcontent from a number of publishers and present a personalized feed to users withinan Applish rich typography interface  again, a la Flipboard et al. Its not clear whether the journalists Apple is busy hiring for News will be writing story summaries or simply curating source material.Apples news aggregator does haveanother trick up its sleeve: dataprivacy. Userdata, interests andpreferences are not shared with third parties. Apple clearly flagged that up as a differentiator for its News service when it announced it back at WWDC.By contrast, Samsung and Axel Springers agreement doesnt mention data privacy. The content will be designed to both meet and anticipate consumers rapidly-evolving needs in an increasingly mobile-centric era, they write.Commenting further in a statement, Mathias Dpfner, CEO of Axel Springer, laudedthe fantastic technological opportunities for journalism in the digital age.Axel Springer is an active investor in startups, via its investment arm Axel Springer Digital Ventures. Its investments to date include financingpay-per-delivery journalism marketplace startup Blendle. But the media giant isclearly spreading its bets on which digital news content models might prevail to deliver future revenues  hencegetting a mobile giant to pay for editorial snippets.