Facebooks least favorite Austrian,lawyer and privacy campaigner,Max Schrems, has updated his data protection complaints against the social network giant in the light of the recent EJC strikedown of the Safe Harbor transatlantic data-sharing agreement.Schrems has now filed an updated complaint against Facebook with the Irish data protection authority  where his original complaint was filed back in June 2013. The substance of the complaint relates to European Facebook users data being pulled intoNSA mass surveillance programs once it has been exported to the U.S.  and thereby, Schrems contends, undermining fundamental European data protection rights.The Irish DPAdismissed the original complaint back in July 2013on the grounds thatthe fifteen-year-old Safe Harbor agreement, which Facebook was signed up to, apparentlytookprecedence as theoverarching governing mechanism for data transfers. However that positionwas blown out of the water by the EJC Safe Harbor ruling this fall  hence Schrems updating and redoubling his complaints now.We want to ensure that this very crucial judgement is also enforced in practice when it comes to the U.S. companies that are involved in U.S. mass surveillance, said Schrems referencingthe Safe Harbor ruling in a statement on his latest data protection complaints. The courts judgement was very clear in this respect.Safe Harbor is no long anoption for companies to legalize data flows going West across the pond  albeit the European Commission and the U.S. are busy trying to hammer out a replacement deal (with a deadline of January 2016 to secure a so-called Safe Harbor 2.0). U.S. intelligence agency access to data is, unsurprisingly, the big sticking point for any new agreement.Schrems has also filed two further complaints about the same issue, one with the Belgian data protection authority, and another with the City of Hamburgs DPA in Germany. These are the first round of what his Europe vs Facebook privacy campaign organization dubs co-ordinated complaints. So Facebook should expect to be dealing witha European data privacy war thats being waged on an increasing number of fronts.The three complaints call for the respective DPAs to suspend all data transfers from Facebooks European HQ to itsU.S. operations  with a reasonable implementation period suggested to allow the company to transition to an alternative arrangement that would be compliantwith the ECJ ruling. (Schrems suggests Facebooksoptions here couldinclude: moving data to Europe, encrypting data that is stored in the United States or reviewing the corporate structure.)Heis also calling for DPAsto conduct an audit of Facebook, as the data importer, and any sub-processors  a suggestion targeting all Facebooksworldwide offices, data centers and relevant documents of Facebook Inc, as well as all sub-processors of Facebookdata.Schrems strategy of filing complaints with multiple individual European Union Member States DPAs follows severalEuropean Court of Justice rulings which haveclearly strengthened the position ofnationalDPAs when it comes to data protection complaints  including in the so-called right to be forgotten case against Google last year, andanECJjudgementthis yearruling in favor ofthe Hungarian data protection authority vsa Slovakian property website called Weltimmo.The Belgian DPA has also been pursuing its own privacy-related action against Facebook, filing a civil suit this summerover Facebooks use of cookies to track non-Facebook users, and going on toconvincea judge it does indeed have jurisdiction over the company (Facebook had tried to claim there was no legal route for it to be sued in Belgium because its European headquarters are in Ireland). Facebook has apparently agreed to comply with the Belgian courts order not to continue tracking non-users, while it continues contesting the ruling.While the Hamburg DPA was very quick off the mark, post ECJ Safe Harbor ruling, to announce its own investigation of Facebooks (and others) data transfer arrangements. The DPA has a history of actively investigating privacy-related complaints. After the Safe Harbor ruling, Hamburgs data privacy commissioner, Johannes Caspar, alsostated: Anyone who wants to remain untouched by the legal and political implications of the judgement, should in the future consider storing personal data only on servers within the European Union.Schrems notes his lawyers wrote to Facebook to ask what alternative data transfer methodsthe company is using in the wake of the Safe Harbor strikedown  obtaining a copy of the contractual agreements it claimsit isusing. Suchagreementshave an exception for cases of illegal mass surveillance in Schrems view  so hes convinced these transfer methods will not pass muster with the DPAs.All relevant EU decisions include an exception for cases of mass surveillance, notesGerard Rudden of Ahern Rudden Quigley Solicitors, who is representing Schremsin Ireland. There is no quick fix through alternative transfer methods for companies that are involved in the violation of European fundamental rights.Schrems is also arguing that any new Safe Harbor deal will be irrelevant, because the ECJ ruling isbasedon the European Charter of Fundamental Rights  so again a data transfer agreement will not be able to overrule the courts findings in cases of mass surveillance.Unless the U.S. government has a Damasceneconversion toEuropes way of thinking about privacy as a fundamental right, andoutlaws its own mass surveillance programs, there are going to be multiple routes for privacy complaints to be filed in Europe against U.S. companies like Facebook, which operate services in the region at least until the companies themselves restructure their European operationsto reflect the new post-Snowden digital data reality.Microsofts recent announcement of a German trustee cloud model with a third party European company apparently acting as a firewall between Microsofts European customers data and the U.S. intelligence agencies data harvesting programs  is one example of how EU-U.S. data flows might be restructured in light of the Safe Harbor strikedown..@mantelero depends on how it is done (technically). Microsoft's German solution seemed smart.. but just one of many possible options.. ;) Max Schrems (@maxschrems) December 3, 2015Responding to Schrems latestcomplaints in a statement, a Facebook spokesperson provided the following emailed statement to TechCrunch:We have repeatedly explained that we are not and have never been part of any program to give the U.S. government direct access to our servers. Facebook uses the same mechanisms that thousands of others companies across the EU use to transfer data legally from the EU to the US, and to other countries around the world.These issues are being examined by the Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC) at the request of Mr Schrems. We are cooperating fully with the DPC and are confident that this investigation will lead to a comprehensive resolution of Mr Schrems complaints.Although Schrems complaints arecontinuing to target Facebook principally, the original Europe vs Facebook mass surveillance complaint from2013 also referenced other U.S. tech companies that hadbeen referenced in documents leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden as also being involved in the NSAs PRISM data collection program  including Apple, Microsoft and Yahoo.