
Peter Csathy is the CEO of business consulting and legal services firm Manatt Digital, where he also serves as a venture capitalist.  Last year on TechCrunch I madeeight predictions about digital media.This post compares those predictions to the reality that is digital media in 2015.Prediction 1:The mobile-driven, premium, short-form video economy grows up, and traditional media companies finally take notice on a mass scale international also becomes a major new battleground for these borderless video opportunities.Reality:2015 was the year when the media worlds new digital realities hit home on a mass scale. Too many data points to mention  but, on thedomestic front, Ill focus on one: Comcast/NBCUniversal. This multi-tentacled media behemoth had barely made a digital move in 2014  but inthe second half of 2015, it was practically on fire.Firstit invested $200 million into Vox Media. Then, in less than a week,another cool $200 million in BuzzFeed. Then, it launchedits mobile-first short-form video platform Watchable.And, in case that wasnt enough, it separately announcedits longer-form standalone subscription OTT companion to Watchable  i.e., SeeSo. Now thats making a digital statement (which Comcast/NBCUniversal finally  and smartly  did).On the international front, same thing. International media giants  particularly in Europe  moved even more swiftly than their Yankee compatriots. Cases in point include Scandinavian media companyMTG buying leading U.K. MCN/MPN Zoomin.TV for a deal valued at nearly $100 million; andGerman media giant ProSiebens acquisition of leading U.S. MCN/MPN Collective Digital Studio which it combined with its existing Euro-based Studio71 MCN to create a truly global digital, mobile-first and millennial-driven media company (valued at approximately $240 million, including ProSiebens cash infusion).Prediction 2:Major consumer brands follow suit and act in earnest. Massive marketing dollars shift from traditional media to more measurable digital platforms in the form of branded content (not just ads), cannibalizing the former for the first time.Reality:Ad dollars shifted from traditional to digital/mobilein real, eye-opening ways, the magnitude of which is still not fully appreciated. Even ESPN  THE traditional media worlds cash cow  was not immune. ESPN is the proverbial canary in the coal mine. If it had toshed 4 percent of its workforcein light of new digital marketing, OTT and consumer behavioral realities (which it recently did), then you know (or better know) thattimes arechanging.Even tortoise-like Viacom  perhaps the slowest major U.S. media company of all to move digitally  is finally making noises about placing major bets amidst these new realities. Specifically, it is reported to be developing its own Nielsen audience measurement killer a new digital measuring platform it calls Project Gemini. But, the question here is, why build slowly when you can buy or rent right now? Speed is at a premium in this brave new digital world. My vote is buy!Prediction 3:YouTube comes under siege by new competing video platforms like Facebook and Vessel.Reality:YouTube no longer stands alone at mass scale in this digital video world. I have written about this several times over the course of this past year. The force is with Facebook already, andin a very big way  it is a behemoth alternative platform that increasingly matters to video creators (just ask major MCNs/MPNs like Whistle Sports). Same with Snapchat, which is now a bona fide media company (and not just your kids communication platform).Then, there is still-stealth-like Vessel and an increasing cast of thousands(I would love to see some metrics posted by Vessel). YouTubes competition is real, very real for the first time  and thats precisely why it recently reacted to these competing forces (and resulting expanded consumer choice) by launching itsYouTube Red ad-free paid subscription service. Even the mother-of-them-all smartly concluded that it cant stand still (even if it had to break a few creator eggs in the process). I applauded YouTube at the time for acting, because no media company of any size should be doing anything but! Your actions may not always work, but its experimentation time. You simply must be in the game. And, as they say, you cannot be afraid to fail. Failure is an option in this context.Prediction 4:Traditional pay-TV packages, likewise, come under fire in the Great Unbundling that began in 2014.Reality:Virtually every media company has now (again, smartly!) either launched or has announced that it is launching its own standalone paid subscription OTT service (NBCUniversals SeeSo, CBSs All Access, ABCs WatchABC, Univisions just-announced Univision Now, HBO NOW, Showtime, Nickelodeon, Comcast Watchable, Dishs Sling TV  the list goes on and on)  not to mention all the others out there focused on particular vertical/niche programming (how about the WWEs chair-smashing pseudo-wrestling-focused streaming service? It is killing it!).Theres gold in them thar vertical hills populated by a particularly rabid and underserved customer base!But, in this era of the Great Unbundling (which, again, directly impacts even media stalwart ESPN), how many of these paid subscription services can the market take? Certainly a subset of all these choices. The market noise is great  so there will be blood. But, in the immortal words of Yoda (who is sure to be oft-quoted this holiday season), Try you must!Prediction 5:Media and tech companies will literally converge.Reality: We see media companies increasingly venturing into tech; case in point,Warner Brothers and Sonys hoped-for Netflix Killer OTT joint venture with Singtelin Asia). No mega-acquisitions have happened yet. Neither Google, Amazon nor Apple (norAlibaba!, which just bought Chinese YouTube Youku Tudou for $4.8 billion) have bought any of the major U.S. media companies. But all easily have the cash to do it. Will we see that happen in 2016?Prediction 6:On the music side, businesses move away from standalone services.Reality:As massive as both Spotify and Pandora are (and they are!), they are not even remotely profitable based on subscription revenues alone. Thats why Pandora just recently (and smartly) announced two major strategic moves to diversify its singularly challenged business model.First, Pandora acquired Ticketmasters mini-me  Ticketfly  for $450 millionin order to add a major new revenue stream. And now, theybought soon-to-be-defunct competing service Rdio for $75 millionin order to add on-demand functionality and compete head-on with Spotify (and others).That last move does little to change its pre-Ticketfly one-dimensional business model. But, it is a major reaction to its long market slide over the past two years. Spotify also hears the music  and just partnered with Songkick to add its new Concerts featurethat gives it a hoped-for major new revenue stream. I applaud these efforts to diversify, because all standalone services must (as I have written several times previously).But will these moves be enough? I still dont rule out M&As(as in, being eaten by even bigger fish  in this regard, the usual suspects in Prediction 5 above apply here too). This could happen in 2016. Pandora is becoming cheaper by the day.Prediction 7:Gamers see real action, too.Reality:This prediction focused on game developers increasingly transforming themselves into multi-platform media storytellers a la Rovio. Certainly we are seeing accelerating moves and investments to that end  and I conferred withgames expert and Manatt Digital Media colleague Patrick Sweeneyto get his thoughts. He pointed out that, for game developers, it is not just about original IP for their stories. He gave me several examples based on existing properties  including Laura Craft Go (a mobile strategy game based onTomb Raider), Fallout Shelter (an interesting resource-gathering twist on a classic game console title), and Pac-Man 256 (a new mobile spin on one of the most classic game titles).Based on all this action  and Patrick Sweeneys outside objective confirmation  Ill mark this prediction off as being a yes.Prediction 8:Gamers take to wearables  we see an Oculus under every hard-core gamers tree.Reality:This prediction was all about virtual reality (VR), and how it stands to radically transform the gamer experience. But, 2015 represents so much more than just games in the fast-transforming immersive world of VR and AR (augmented reality).This is the year where massive bets were made(significantly more than I anticipated, by the way)to accelerate mass VR adoption in not only games, but in live experiences and story-telling in general (not to mentionother remarkable use cases I touched upon in a recent blog postwhere I interviewed VR/AR thought-leader Mike Rothenberg). No, we will not see an Oculus under every hard-core gamers tree this Xmas. I was a bit premature on that one. But not by much. Those premium VR headsets from Oculus (as well as the growing list of others, including behemoths Samsung, HTC and Sony) are coming in Conehead-inspired mass quantities in early 2016 (I particularly like what I see with the HTC Vive). We will see millions of those premium headsets (not just Google Cardboards) sold in 2016 (much like what we saw in the early days of game consoles)  which means that 2016 will see mass adoption and the early mainstreaming of VR.