Secret Inc.  makers of theanonymish app Secret, whichlets users post notes to friends, friends-of-friends, or those in their vicinity without revealing their identities  crashedthrough the highs and lows of startup life in the last year,generating a lot of interestand notoriety for its gossipy, eponymous app, and then almost as quickly disappearing off the radar and losing its co-founder.Now, TechCrunch has learned that the team is going to make another go of it. Secret is working on new apps, including taking its enterprise-focused product, Secret Dens for work, toa betalaunch in the the coming weeks. But, contrary to some reports, Secret itself is not shutting down, nor is the startuppivoting into a life asan app incubator.We often talk internally about ways to build upon what weve created, but we do not have plans to shut down Secret, the app, or pivot Secret the company into an incubator, co-founder and CEO David Byttow told us.In fact, the product has increased momentum in the last month driven by usage during Spring Break. It is true that were working on a couple really interesting things, and I couldnt be more excited to share them when theyre ready. Secret  which has raised $35 million to date is also hiring people, he said.The rumors of pivots come at a time of regrouping for Secret, whose other co-founder Chrys Bader left inJanuary, amid other keydepartures among the small team.They include mobile engineer Sara Haider, who left Twitter for Secret, and in a strange twist of fate left Secret for Periscope, which is now part of Twitter.We are still trying to figure out what new apps  or new services  Secret may be launching. But in the meantime, the startupis also going to be giving some more oxygen to projects that are already out in the open.Secret Dens  the companys anonymous app for the workplace iscurrently being used very muchat Google, Facebook and Twitter in closed trials we understand. In the coming weeks, Secret Dens will launch an open beta for new companies to join in. For now, its still a free product.Ping, an AI-based app that the Secret team built in a weekend, is getting less air.The app, whichdelivers app, film,and reading recommendations, as well as other informative tidbits, is currently in maintenance mode and getting only minor traffic.To be sure, the flagshipapp has seen better days. AppAnnie numbers show itcurrently ranked 189th in the App Store for social networking apps in the U.S., having peakedat number 11 in the same category (and 61 overall) last summer.Why the decline? Most likely a confluence of anumber of reasons. Secret first rose buoyedby a growing public interest in social networking that doesnt reveal everything to everyone, or only leaves it shared for a moment  others in the category include Whisper, Snapchat, and a wave of encrypted messaging apps like Wickr and many more. Thebuzz around Secret and itsgossipybedrockthen grew as the appallowed poststo get shared and viewed onlineand raised funding. Then, just as quickly as some people ran to Secret, they ran away, with backlash over the often unbridled negativity of people on the app, all under the cloak of anonymity.Beyond that, Secret has faceda more prosaic and universal fate. Secret has notmanaged to keep a large momentum of users adopting the app and talking about it. This a bigchallenge for many developers in an app market. A developer who works in app analytics recently told me that between 60-70% of consumerswho download apps do not open them three months after they get them. Its a problem of keeping users interested amid the rise of whatever app is the next big thing.But from what we understand, Secretsdownload numbers dont tell the whole story.Secret, responding topublic comments and its falling star, revamped the app completely, adding private chat, removing the web links, and getting stricter on how to manage negative posts.At the time, itgot dingedfor redesigning its main appto look and behavemore like other popular social apps, Yik Yak and Snapchat among them. But thatyounger demographic isexactly the one that Secret is aiming for, and with some success, it seems. The app has apparently seenan increase in engagement when narrowed down to specific locations where it happens to be popular, for example a beach resort around the time of Spring Break. In these cases,the app can see as many as several posts coming up per minute.Other areas where Secret is doing well? Internationally, with especially active users in Indonesia, which seems to dobrisk business in smaller social apps.Indonesia, a parallel universe where Path and Secret are popular.All of this will go on.The plan will be, weve heard, is for the startupto double down in areas where Secret is seeing more activity.