If you need proof that security is a red hot market these days, how about this mornings announcement that cybersecurity company CrowdStrike landed a $100 million Series C investment round?The round was led by Google Capital with Rackspace, which happens to be one of the companys customers also investing. Existing investorsAccel and Warburg Pincus also participated. Todays investment brings the total to-date to $156 million.Business Insiderbroke the story as a rumor on Friday night. We have additional details.CrowdStrike describes its Falcon cloud platformasend point protection delivered as Software as a Service. Traditionally this type of protection has beendelivered by companies like FireEye and Cisco as a hardware solution that sits on your network and is designed to protect organizations from attacks.That worked fine when there was a well defined end point, but in a mobile and cloud world, the lines between inside and outside have become blurred. Employees arent sitting at their desks on computers under the control of the company. They are increasingly moving through the world with mobile devices, and as such, the notion of security has changed  andsecurity companies are adjusting.In fact, mostsecurity products today aredesigned to protect customersfrommalware, exploits, malicious websites and unpatched vulnerabilities. CrowdStrikeclaims to differentiate itself from the packby offering protection even when the attack isnt delivered by malware, according to a CrowdStrike spokesperson.As CTO Dmitri Alperovitch alsopointed out in a blog post last week, because Falconis delivered as a cloud service, the company controls the way it works. In other words, unlike security hardware, nobody can buy it and reverse engineer it. That should theoretically give the companya leg up over competitors.One of the main reasons CrowdStrike caught the attention of its investors is some eye-popping growth numbers including550 percent Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) in Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) for the Falcon platform over the past three years. It also claims225 percent, year-over-year growth in Annual Contract Value (ACV) subscriptions and a700 percent year-over-year increase in the number of transactions valued at $1 million or more.The company was launched by former executives from McAfee in 2011.Its most recent funding was a$30 million round in September, 2013. When a company gets a round of this size, it usually signalsinvestorsareconfidentthat itcan maintainits remarkablegrowth  and the money shouldhelp it expandsales, customer support, marketing and research and development as the company scales.Security has captured the attention of investors of late as the number of high-profile breaches has increased over the last year from OPM to Anthem to Sony, and venture capital firms recognize the market potential for companies that can offer effective security solutions.