Six years ago,Paul Niehaus and Michael Faye were two Harvard-trained development economists whobegana small, private experiment in East Africa.Instead of donating food, bedding or medical care or offering high-interest micro-finance loans, their model wasjust to givefamilies cash. They gave familiesunconditional, cash grants of about $1,000  or the equivalent of a one-year budget for a single household.What they found was that the cash grants cut the number of days childrenwent hungry by almost half and increased their earnings by almost one-third.This was because families could start making longer-term investmentslike buying a tin roof that lastsa decadeinstead ofhavingto purchase a brand-new thatch roof every year.Today their project, GiveDirectly, has scaled to giving between $40 and 50 million per year.Now the pair is expanding beyond the non-profit world intotech entrepreneurship with a new company called Segovia. Its modern enterprise software foraid programs and NGOs.The company isbacked with $15 million from investors like LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman, the Omidyar Network and the Global Innovation Fund, the venture arm of multiple governmentaid and development agencies from the U.S., U.K. and Sweden. [Edit: The Global InnovationFundis financially backed by the government development agencies of the U.K., U.S. and Sweden and Australia. But it is a separate institution with an independent governance structure.]It turns out that a lot of people and organizations need a platform to distribute things in bulk  whether thats cash or medical supplies, Faye said. There wasnt an end-to-end solution. There werea lot of locally builttools, but they arent real scalable solutions.Field workers, for example, need to do in-take on clients and figure out how to identify people in need. With older software, NGOs were uploading insecure spreadsheets and working across multiple non-integrated databases.Segovia handles field data collection and case management on the enrollment side and then payment management and scheduling on the other side.Faye and Niehausdont seetheir company as solely limited to non-profits either. Theyre also very interested in the hundreds of billions of dollars in remittancesthat flow through global markets every year.Then, there are also lots of corporations operating in emerging markets with hundreds of suppliers.Forexample, you could have a cocoa farm that needsto pay farmers while verifying the grade of cocoa, Faye said. The core challenge of what we do is reallysimple. You need to figure out who to pay and how to pay them, whether its cash grants or an insurance payout.Theirsoftwarecantnecessarily counter last-mile corruption, but Segovia does have a complete a digital audit trail.Aidworkers will have to make sure theyre working within trustednetworks and relationships to avoid fraud.Thats a problem I dont think Segovia can solve the on-the-ground corruption where a staff member enrolls their friends instead of people who need aid. But we can show you who has entered data with dates and geostamps of where people were at different times.