A new startup called Sell It Easy is offering an alternative to larger marketplaces like eBay or Craigslist with a new service that handles the entire selling process for you, from item pricing to posting online to shipping to buyers and more. In San Francisco and, eventually, other markets as the service expands, Sell It Easy will even come pick up the items you want to sell, saving you the hassle of having to package them yourself. Elsewhere, it offers a prepaid shipping label you use to send items you want the company to sell on your behalf.The service means to address a number ofchallenges that sellers face today when looking to unloadtheir used items. For starters, they have to research to find the right price. They also may not realize that some items would sell better  that is, quicker or for a higher price point  on some marketplaces compared with others. Sellers also may notknow how to calculate shipping costs, and theyhave to worry with actually packaging and shippingthe product to the buyer when it finally sells.Even then, the sales process may not be over  buyers can return items for a variety of reasons, forcing you tostart from scratch.This, in fact, was the problem that prompted the idea for Sell It Easy in the first place, explains co-founder Ben Rahnema. Currently an engineer at Mavenlink, he will soon be joining co-founderCraig Brott, previouslya senior software engineer at Y Combinator-backed Simply Insured, to work on Sell It Easy full-time.Rahnema explains that he had a Moto X phone that he was trying to sell on eBay that he ended up having to list seven times, as buyers would refuse to pay or sentit back because it didnt work with their carrier. As a seller, the process was not only frustrating, but also time-consuming. He realized then that the amount of time he spent selling it was actually worth more than the value he would get from the sale of the phone.This is a problem that many casual sellers can relate to  while we certainly have items lying around our house that could be worth something if postedonline, the time it takes to actually sell them isnt often worth the handful of dollars theyd net.Thats where Sell It Easy comes in.I started my first eBay business when I was around 12 or 13 years old, says Rahnema, who notesthat both he and his co-founder are power sellers on eBay and Craigslist. Theirexperiences allowed themto understand the obstacles peopleface today when trying to sell online.If youre spending that much time trying to sell things now  and on eBay and Craigslist you have to deal with scams and flaky buyers  youre way better off having someone else handle that for you, especially when it can be streamlined and low-cost,Rahnema says.To use Sell It Easy, you visit the web app (an iOS app is in the works), describe the item youre selling, and upload photos. Sell It Easy will then offer you a price quote for that item and, if you accept, will arrange for pick-up. For now, the pick-up option is only available in San Francisco, but anyone else in the U.S. can use the site to print a prepaid shipping label instead. (Sell It Easy also works with international sellers, but they have to pay their own shipping expenses for the time being).The service is most competitive with eBays own concierge service, Sell for Me (aka eBay Valet), which also offers prepaid shipping labels and a hassle-free selling process.But Sell It Easy additionallyoffers the pick-up service, which allows sellers to list things that would be otherwise to difficult to ship. Early testers have used this optionto sellbig things like furniture or oriental rugs, for example. Ebays conciergeservice, however, wont accept any bulky items.The pick-up option is live in San Francisco, and the startup plans to expand to New York further down the road.In addition, Sell It Easy isnt limiting itself to selling only on eBay. The company supports a range of marketplaces, including eBay, Craigslist, Etsy, and others, including local marketplaces, in order to get sellers a higher price for their items than what may be possible on eBay.It even supports social selling, like on Facebook.WhileRahnema wouldnt go into detail as to how this side of the business works, the team is likely taking advantage of the more privateyard sale groups found on the social network in order to reach local buyers.Sell It Easy takes a commission on sales, already factored into the price quote provided to buyers. This is not more than 12 percent, but varies by market and product. (For comparison, eBay Sell For Me users instead keep 60 percent to 80 percent of their items sale price, depending on the dollar amount of the sale.) Sell It Easys sellers are paid immediately after a sale via PayPal, Venmo, check, or bitcoin.In the future, Sell It Easyhopesto bring its shipping costs down by partnering with logistics providers, including delivery companies like UPS as well as startups like Postmates for handling pick-ups and shipments.The San Francisco-based team says they havea chance to interview with Y Combinator after being able to defer a prior interview for their mobile email app Shuffle, whichthey decided to scrap after Googles Inbox app launched.The founders are currently bootstrapping Sell It Easy with help from contractors and freelancers. The service has been live for a month with some100 eBay and Craigslist power userswho beta tested it to sell around 150 items. Today, the startup isavailable for all as part of its public debut.