Today, at the Post-Seed conference in San Francisco, Alfred Lin, the former COO and CFO of Zapposand now a Sequoia Capital partner, was asked a variety of on-stage questions about the current market.Among them was whether Lin thinks its a good time to start a fund. Probably not, he said. Valuations are high. But it doesnt matter if youre [thinking] long term, he said. If youre building something enduring, youre going to face lots of ups and downs anyway and you might as well start today.As he noted, It only gets more competitive in this world of investing.Lin was also asked about the changing landscape andtalked about the slowdown he expects next year, prompted by rate changes that theFederal Reserve is expected toenact shortly.With interest rates close to zero, you cant make money in the bond market, he said. So the bond people now invest in stocks, and people who invest in stocks invest in private growth rounds. . . and VCs invest in seed deals. Thatll all changewhen the Fed starts raising rates, which Lin anticipates it may domaybe even once a quarter. Once thathappens, he said,There will be less money chasing companies all the way down the spectrum.Lin was also asked to take a look back and address some of Sequoias most impactful decisions in recent years. He was asked, for example, whySequoia invested in the accommodations marketplace Airbnb but passed on the ride-sharing company Uber.Lin  whoinvested personallyin Uber, having written the company an early, $30,000 check  was candid, calling Sequoiasdecision not to fund Ubera big failure on our part. Sometimes, were too smart for our own good.Though the team looked at the service and loved it . . . [and]looked at [CEO Travis Kalanick, who is] obviously a relentless, original thinker . . . we got stuck on market. We thought it would be a black car service. We didnt dream with him about what it could be, that it could transform transportation.As for what promptedSequoia in 2009to lead a$600,000 seed round in Airbnb  another company that plenty of VCs now kick themselves for passing on  Lin said he thinks the partnership came with a more prepared mind. Itd been looking at the vacation rental market much longer.Lin also noted that Airbnb is a very rare, global network effects company, and thats something we got our minds around as a proprietary defensible advantage.Lin was then asked byinterviewer Bambi Francisco whose company, Vator, helped organize the conference whyit is that Airbnbs valuation has been holding steadyat $25 billion while Ubers has soared to between $50 billion and $70 billion (depending on the day and the investor you ask).Lin, who joined the board of Airbnb back in 2013, said it was simply harder for Airbnb to buy inventory. At the end of the day, fewer people can be convinced to rent out a room in their home thanpersuadedto drive forUber, he said. As a result, Airbnb is growing more slowly.Indeed,Airbnb generated $340 million of revenue in the third quarter on bookings of $2.2 billion, according to report last month from the WSJ. Meanwhile, according to leaked investor documentpublished in Augustby Reuters, Ubers ride-share bookings were on track to grow to$10.84 billion this year and $26.12 billion next.Its seeminglya sensitive issue, the differences in the growth of the two Internet high-fliers. Last month, at a marketing conference in Orlando, Fla., Airbnb CMO Jonathan Mildenhall was asked what his company has learned from watching Uber expand around the world, and he seemed to disparage its tactics.His answer: They have their own way of seeking growth . . .I think for us, our community and the humanity of our community actually drives a lot of the things that what we do. So we approach any kind of awkward situation or any challenge with a lot of empathy and a lot of open collaboration. And so, we dont want to kind of bulldoze our way into success. We actually want to partner our way into success.