
Lydia Frank is senior editorial director at PayScale.com.Ive seen a lot of media coverage in the last couple weeks regarding one former Google employees effort to bring more pay transparency to her workplace by creating a spreadsheet for co-workers to share their salary information with one another. Since that story broke, the commentary has been along the lines of, Yes! You should do this, too. Just tell everyone what you make. It will work out great.I understand the motivation. Everyone wants to ensure theyre being paid fairly. On its face, battling against potential pay inequity by openly discussing pay with co-workers sounds like a valid solution. But heres why its actually a terrible idea.Salaries typically fall within a range, rather than being a set number for a specific position. Different employees working the same job will hopefully be somewhere within that range, but wont necessarily have identical salaries.Thats not how employee compensation works. There are many factors that may have an impact on someones compensation  years of experience, special skill sets, certifications, management experience, performance, etc.Unless youre planning to ask everyone to share their resumes and performance evaluations along with their salary, you cant possibly know all the factors that may have impacted a co-workers compensation compared to your own.Your employer is also hopefully comparing pay data at your organization with similar employers competing for the same talent in your city  whats called a labor market. Employers define labor markets using geography, industry, the size of the organization and a number of other facets that can have an impact on compensation for employees. A single organization may be competing for talent in more than one labor market.For example, in Seattle, the tech talent pool is highly sought after by companies ranging from small startups to the tech giants Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook. If you employ software developers and other related workers, you may have to be more competitive with pay packages for that set of employees than you would be for other departments  human resources, sales, marketing, etc.So, a manager in engineering likely wont make the same salary as a manager in human resources. You dont have to like it, but that actually is fair. The market for human resource managers simply isnt as competitive.Do you think things might get awkward if you share your salary openly with your co-workers? It absolutely will. Somebody is going to be making more than somebody else, and if there isnt an open dialogue happening with your company about why people are paid the way they are, youre left to figure out why the differences might exist.Resentment is almost guaranteed. Its certainly possible that theres some discrimination at work. Its also possible that someone has better qualifications than you, and therefore demands a higher salary.So while I believe transparency around pay is essential, sharing salaries in a spreadsheet isnt going to solve issues around pay equity. Theres too much room for misunderstanding the data and what it actually is revealing.Also, some people will just never feel comfortable talking openly about their own pay with peers. What about them? Do they not deserve fair pay if theyre not willing to share with co-workers what theyre currently making?True pay transparency should be an open dialogue between employers and employees. Storming your HR department to demand fair pay based on what could be misleading data shared haphazardly is unlikely to result in what you really want  fair pay based on the current labor market for your position and qualifications.What Google (and other employers) need to take away from this is that when youre not communicating well with your employees about your compensation strategy and practices, and how you as a company are ensuring that pay remains equitable, you leave room for speculation.And the speculation is unlikely to be favorable. A lack of information naturally leads to a breakdown in trust.Werecently asked our employee survey respondents whether they believed they were underpaid. It turns out 55 percent of those who felt underpaid were actually paid at or above market value. People are not always leaving companies because theyre underpaid, but because they believe they are.If companies are too close-mouthed about how they set compensation  what data they use, how they determine their labor markets, why employees fall where they do within a range they risk losing their best employees over a misunderstanding.And, if pay inequities do exist, being open about how the organization is attempting to remedy those inequities can go a long way in maintaining trust with employees. Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff, for example, recently announced that hes actively examining any issues that may exist around a gender pay gap at the company by closely examining the salaries of its 16,000 employees.He has admitted that it may take a couple of years to rectify all the issues, but its a first step  and one that hes making publicly rather than behind closed doors. Other companies would be wise to follow suit and discuss compensation practices more openly.That doesnt mean posting everyones salary up on the wall, but it does mean being proactive about discussing compensation with your employees. Keeping it secret does far more harm than good.