After months of speculation and a much-publicised re-negotiation of terms of membership, last week the U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron formally announced the date for a referendum on whether Britain should remain in the European Union.The European Union  often referred to as the EU  is an economic and political partnership involving 28 European countries. It forms the basis of the single market, which enables free trade across member states, including the movement of goods and people, as if the region was a single country.On Thursday the 23rd of June, British voters will be asked thequestion: Should the United Kingdom remain a member of the European Union or leave the European Union? The vote is being billed by the Prime Minister, who is campaigning to remain, as one of the biggest decisions in our lifetimes. Its outcome will also likely have a huge impact on the countrys tech ecosystem and the U.K.s position as a leading tech hub in Europe and beyond.To that end, anecdotal evidence would suggest the U.K. tech startup community as a whole  founders, employees and investors  is overwhelmingly in support of Britain remaining a member of the EU. As hard as Ive tried, Ive yet been able to find a single bona fide outer, aside from a few undecided VCs. However, the first signs of a more concrete position have emerged in the form of a survey conducted by the Coalition for a Digital Economy (Coadec).To gauge the opinion of the U.K.s digital startups (and to inform the lobby groups own position), Coadec asked startup founders, and people who invest in and work in the U.K.s digital startups, two questions.The first, slightly moot, question was whether or not the Prime Minsters renegotiation of terms impacted their view, with 71% saying it did not impact their view, 29% saying it did.The second, and more crucial question, mirrored that of the upcoming referendum itself  that is whether or not Britain should remain or leave the EU. It found that 81% of respondents said the U.K. should remain a member of the European Union, with 19% saying the U.K. should leave.Now, admittedly, the survey size wasnt huge (175, including 126 startup founders, 26 startup employees, 19 investors and 4 others who were excluded) and has obvious limitations  participants were self-selecting and Coadec hasnt ensured in any way that its a representative sample.However, Guy Levin, Executive Director of Coadec, argues that the results are indicative of U.K. digital startup opinion, and in line with his own anecdotal evidence, which echoes mine.Its also in line with surveys from Tech London Advocates (which found that 87% wanted to remain), and from techUK (who found that 71% of members wanted to remain in a reformed EU). So take that as you will.In the many conversations with startup founders and VCs Ive had on the EU referendum  including my on-stage interview with Alex Depledge, Hassle co-founder and Chair of Coadec  the issue that comes up most and reason to stay is immigration.Namely that being in the U.K. makes it easier to recruit technical and other talent from anywhere in the EU, which, in turn, enables startups in Britain to compete globally. The talent pool in the U.K. is simply too small to remain competitive were the public to vote to leave, ending free movement, they say.And while the single market is a long way off from translating to a single digital market, already many startups benefit from harmonised regulation in fintech, for example, which sees a financial services license in one country apply to all 28 member states. Thats a huge deal.In a statement, Coadecs Levin says: The U.K.s digital startups are clear that they want us to stay in the EU, in order to have access to a single market of 500 million consumers, a talented labour market, and a seat at the table setting the rules. They dont think the EU is perfect, but have clearly said that the U.K. is better off remaining inside the European Union, than out on our own. The U.K. is the best place in Europe to launch and grow a digital startup, we should not put that at risk.He also says the results arent surprising, noting that the U.K.s startup community is international in outlook and composition. Founders come to the U.K. from across Europe (and the world) to launch and grow their businesses. They look to Europe for talented staff to help them grow. And they aim to sell and expand across a trading block of 500 million consumers, adds Levin.One startup founder to go public in his criticism is Tom Adeyoola, founder of virtual fitting room startup Metail. Due to the Mayors support for exiting the EU, he is withdrawing Metail from the Mayor of Londons Go to Grow programme, which offers mentoring to so-called scale-ups.In an open letter he writes: I must respectfully make it known that I can no longer support or be part of the Mayors Go to Grow International Export Programme. An export programme without a pro-European stance doesnt work for me, and I firmly believe that leaving the EU would be fundamentally detrimental to Metails export future and growth prospects.Meanwhile, anotherknown and public supporter of the U.K. remaining in the EU is London-based venture capitalist Eileen Burbidge. Thats particularly noteworthy given that, along with numerous government advisory roles, shes a tech ambassador for the Mayor of London, a position that has seen her share a number of platforms and trade missions with Johnson.I asked Burbidge what she made of the Mayors decision to back the Leave campaign and she had this to say: Like everyone else in Britain the Mayor is right to carefully consider his view on the situation but I do have a different point of view and strongly believe Britain (and the U.K. tech sector) is better off within the EU.