A dayafter the news broke that General Motors was picking up assets from failed Uber competitor Sidecar, today the startups CEO finally confirmed the details directly in a blog postand provided a few more details about the deal.A key component to the transaction, writes CEO Sunil Paul, wasSidecars patents, for which GM has taken a license, but Sidecar retains ownership of those patents. In other words, it looks like Sidecar the business may live on a little longer.The Bloomberg story that broke the news of GMs acquisition noted that while Sidecar believes the patent that it has been granted US Patent #6356838 for System and method for determining an efficient transportation route  as well as other patents that are stillpending were essential to the concept of ride-sharing. However, Uber and Lyft  collectively valued in the tens of billions of dollars in private valuations did not respond toSidecars attempts to enforce the patent.So what might happen next? One of three options, it seems.The first is that Sidecar sells the patents to someone who might be more willing to enforce them. That could be to a patent entity who has the funds and interest in trying to enforce them through the legal system. Or, it could be to a strategic buyer: another ridesharing company; or another firm that has ambitions to try something out in ridesharing; or someone who may have a long term interest or something close enough that it makes sense to acquire them in a defensive move.The tech industry is certainly no stranger to the latterkind of patent sale.Remember Color, the photo sharing startup that roseup in a big, chromatic bubble when it raised a $41 million seed round, only to see that bubble spectacularly burst? When Apple acquired them, they left behind the patents. Those, it turns out, were eventually all acquired, very quietly, by LinkedIn.No comment from LinkedIn about what it ended up doing with those, by the way. We are a fast growing Internet company and its not uncommon for us to expand our patent portfolio, was all the spokesperson said when I asked about the acquisition.The second option is that Sidecar tries to enforce the patents itself. It seems unlikely that it would do this, however, given that even when it was an active company with funding it couldnt get the companies to budge and respond.Most companies know little about how difficult it is to monetize patents; you really need someone in-house to manage it, one patent specialist told me.The third option might beto start a new company based around the assets. Paul confirms that he is not joining the rest of his team at GM and is taking a break before moving on to the next thing. As the person credited with being one of the first to thinkup the concept behind Uber before Uber, it will be worth watching to see if he decides to give transportation another crack.