
Chris DeVore is the managing director of
Techstars Seattle.Talent plus capital. Whether youre building a company, a city or a national economy, these are the raw materials that make it possible to do things that others cant.SiliconValleyis the worlds most magical mixing chamber for these two simple ingredients, home to the most exciting, creative and valuable companies on the planet. Every city in the U.S.  and around the world  wants to be the SiliconValleyfor X, because somehow that simple recipe of talent plus capital produces such radically different outcomes there than anywhere else.Money flows to opportunity; if you can turn singles into twenties, somebody will write you a check no matter where you are. But humans have a stickier relationship to geography: they have friends and families, spouses with careers, mortgages and kids in school. Talent flows to places where the opportunities are greatest and the risk of getting stuck is lowest over the long term, so if things dont work out in one job, you can move on to the next big thing without changing locations.How didSiliconValleybecame the worlds leadinginnovationeconomy? The reasons are many, but one of the least celebrated and most fundamental drivers of that success is an obscure-but-powerful legal provision passed into law back in 1872. In that year, the California Civil Code was amended to include the following language:Except as provided inthis chapter, every contract by which anyone is restrained from engaging in a lawful profession, trade, or business of any kind is to that extent void.In other words, human capital  talent  working in the State of California cant be contractually bound to any employer for any reason (excepting a very narrow and well-defined set of edge cases). This is very different from many other states in theU.S., including several that aspire to compete withSiliconValleyfor leadership in theinnovationeconomy.By writing that simple human freedom into law, California ensured the free flow of talent to the best and most promising opportunities, whether or not thats what their previous employer had in mind. From the traitorous eight that created Fairchild Semiconductor to the present day, human capital in California does whatever the hell it wants, and that free flow of talent makes the Bay Area what it is.Washington and Massachusetts aspire to greatness ininnovation. Both havesolid track records of success in nurturing world-class technology companies. Both are home to great cities, with outstanding research universities that attract talent from around the world. But both are also home to champion companies that have used lobbying power to block the passage of laws similar to Californias that would outlaw the use ofnon-compete agreements.Strong Federal statutes exist to protect intellectual property (via patents) and block the sharing of trade secrets (through enforceablenon-disclosure agreements).Non-compete agreements dont exist to protect trade secrets  as their defenders claim  but rather to prevent workers from pursuing goals that might conflict with those of their employer.Legislators in both Washington and Massachusetts have recognized the harm thatnon-compete agreements do to theirinnovationeconomies and introduced legislation to match Californias talent-centric policy. But in both cases, incumbent companies with powerful lobbyists  specifically, EMC in Massachusetts and Microsoft in Washington  have used their economic power to block any change to statenon-compete laws.So in Washington, a Microsoft employee who spots a more interesting career opportunity at Amazon is likely to be sued just for taking a better job. And an Amazon employee who wants to leave to create a startup is equally likely to be sued for competing with their ($250 billion market cap) employer. The solution in both cases isnt to stay put, but rather to  you guessed it  move to California where Washingtonnon-compete claims cant be enforced.Seattle and Boston are both fantastic places to build companies, and some founders will always prefer to pursue their dreams in those cities instead of pulling up stakes for the Bay Area. But as long as legislators in Washington and Massachusetts keep listening to lobbyists instead of founders and entrepreneurs, California will maintain its unfair advantage in the global war for talent.