App makers will no longer be able to fudge their numbers by buying downloads in orderclimb the App Stores charts in an effort to manufacture popularity. Many companies today, including most recently, App Annie, are now expanding their mobile app analytics services to track app usage, engagement and other metrics that detail an apps truetraction among users.Today, a company called SimilarWeb, which has been operating something of a comScore or Alexa competitor for website measurement and analytics, and starting late last yearmobile analytics,is also now venturing into app engagement with a new product its calling its App Engagement Market Intelligence service.The launch comes after market leader App Annie last week announced a $55 million fundraise and its expansion into app usage and engagement metrics. But App Annie is not alone in realizing the market opportunity in being ableoffer insights into mobile apps internal metrics. In the past, these figures were relatively hidden from outsiders, including users, investors, competitors, and reporters, all of whom are sometimes interested in determining an apps real popularity and draw.One of the leading companies early in the space, Onavo, was snatched up by Facebook in 2013, leaving a void that App Annie and several others, including now7Park Data, Mobidia, SimilarWeb and more are starting tofill.With SimilarWebs new product, the company hopes to answer not just whether or not apps have been installed and how they rank, but also whether or not they have value.How many active users does an app have? What other apps do they have installed? Do users launch the app several times per day? How long are their sessions? How often do they return? These sorts of insights are more telling than how many downloads it has.SimilarWebs App Engagement Market Intelligence, which is now launching into beta, uses an app index thats pulled from millions of devices. While the company, like its competitors, keeps much of its methodology private, its able to gain insight into apps because of other apps it has on the market where users agree to share their data back with the company, as well as via more traditional panels.This is the same approach that Onavo took, and App Annie takes today, having launching a subsidiary called Smart Sense which will produce its intelligence-gathering applications.We [also] take a portfolio approach to collecting app engagement data, so its not only apps that we build in-house, its also partner apps, SimilarWeb tells us. Strategic acquisitions are also an important part of our data collection strategy.The company feels it has a strategic advantage in the space because its not just a mobile analytics company  it also has website analytics. Though seemingly disparate products, theres actually some overlap.For example, now that Google shows apps in its search results, SimilarWeb is able to see much traffic those apps get, and the keywords that send that traffic to the apps.Today, SimilarWeb sees around 2.5 million visits to its free website per month, and counts thousands of paid subscribers to its service, including Outbrain, PayPal, eBay, Travelocity, William Hill, Flipkart and others.To kick off the services launch, the company is offering a ranking of apps by usage (Android only). This list ranks apps differently from how theyre listed onapp stores, instead showcasing those users access the most often. (See below). The list shows that apps like Facebook, Chrome, Instagram, YouTube, Snapchat, Whatsapp, Minecraft and others are really tops on users phones.Initially, the new service is offering insights for Android apps in the U.S. and U.K., but will expand to other countries and to iOS in 2015. The pricing for the service is also still to be determined. Beta testers can sign up here.