Weeks after revealing plans to use drones to deliver the mail, Singpost  Singaporespostal service provider  has unveiled another futuristic e-commerce concept, a mall that combinesonline and offline shoppingtogether under one roof.The mall (artists impressive above) will be located atSingapore Post Centre (SPC) and is scheduled to be completed bymid-2017. The company said it would feature25,000 square meters of retail space spread across five levels. Therell be an eight-screen cinema but, most importantly,Singpost envisages the mall being the future of retail  where shoppers can peruse items in store and order them online for delivery to their home. (The delivery and logistics are part are where Singpost truly brings its resources into play.)The organization believesthat marrying online and offline commerce will benefit both customers and retailers, as it explained in anannouncement today:A consumer could browse in-store, purchase the product andarrange for delivery of the product directly to their home. The consumer could then continueshopping, watch a movie or have a meal in the mall without having to carry bulky shoppingbags. The retailer, on the other hand, could save on storage space in the store as fulfilmentwould be done at the backend of the warehouse.Its certainly a bold vision, particularly since this mall would be the first of its kind  even though online-to-offline is already a trend that is enablingsome physical retailers to extend their reach to customers through the internet.Some types of shopping are based around instant gratification or spontaneity, i.e. actually taking a product home with you,but Singpost is betting that in somecases  such as bulkier items or more mundane purchases  shopping online and a speedy home delivery is what the people will want.Weve already seen Alibaba invest $4.6 billion in foster closer links between online and offline sales. That deal saw the Chinese e-commerce firm  which is an investor in Singpost  buya 20 percent slice of Chinese physical retail giant Suning. Part of that coming-together will seeAlibaba given the opportunity ofa physical experience with products in store  i.e. try it in person and buy it via Alibaba  while there are plans to offer after-sales support for products bought via Alibabas online services.Singpost, however, is taking this concept to the next level with amall. For now, onlycinema firm Golden Village Multiplex and coffee chainKopitiam are confirmed tenants. It is easy to see how bothof those businesses could benefit from closer alignment with internet sales and distribution, but it will be interesting to see which other companies inhabit the mall when it goes from vision to reality over the next 18 months or so. And, of course, whether the concept takes off in other countries.Hat tipFelicia