Skype is part of TechCrunchs newsroom workflow. Its the standard way that individual authors converse, share, collaborate and the like. We use other software to work as a team, but for one-on-one chats, Skype is our jam.The downside is that it just doesnt work very well. Its become a running joke in the office: Skyped it to you  So, youll get it tomorrow?What is wrong with Skype? It cant sync messages properly across devices, so god forbid if you use Skype on a Mac at work and a PC at home. File transfer remains ungodly slow. Messages often do not show up for some time on the machines of recipients, leading to confusion and, occasionally, bruised egos. And then there are Skype group chats that some of us cant get into until the next day.To quote my colleague Ryan Lawler, Skype had one job!  messaging  and it cant even do that right.And instead of getting better, its getting worse. At least in our office. A sampling of our public conversations about Skype:RT @kylebrussell: "Skype unexpectedly quit" is an oxymoron [Skype: The Worst.] Alex  (@alex) October 29, 2014Obligatory Skype is such a piece of shit message of the day Ryan Lawler (@ryanlawler) March 4, 2015@alex The best is when you get a message from 8-12 hours earlier.

"Why is this just now getting delivered to me!?!?" Travis Bernard (@travisbernard) October 7, 2014And the list goes on, and on, and on, and on, and on, and on, and on.I reached out to Microsoft about message federation, the ability to join groups, and general reliability.The company pointed TechCrunch to public resources on how to ensure that a Skype call has the best chance of success.I asked TechCrunchs Anthony Ha to describe how annoying it is when your Skype room fails to allow certain members of the group to actually get into the damn thing:You know whats awesome? Creating a Skype room so that a group of TechCrunch writers can work together  and then being told by one or more writers that they cant see it. So you sit there and wonder: What? Why? Should it really be this hard to create a group?But hey, youre trying to cover a big, breaking news story, so you can only wonder for a few seconds. Then you just shrug, try to keep everyone clued in about whats happening in the room, and hope that a crucial piece of information doesnt get dropped while youre playing telephone.A R G H.Microsoft purchased Skype for $8.5 billion in 2011. Its 2015, and Skype remains a tenuous experience. For a tool that is so globally liked, and used, its an odd situation. Microsoft recently doubled down on the Skype brand, moving its enterprise chat service under the Skype for Business moniker. Given the issues that consumer Skype has, you almost wonder about the efficacy of the choice.