The transition from traditional cable and satellite TV service to online streaming is not without its issues, asDishs Sling TV subscribers can attest to. The web-based streaming platformexperienced a significant outage last night  its third sizable outage to date  which brought the service down for hours. The issue affected users across platforms, including web, desktop, mobile and connected devices, includinggame consoles and media players likeRoku and Fire TV.Users attempting to access the service were presented with error messages in some cases, while at other times, the app would just freeze instead of completing the login.Meanwhile, those who reached out to Sling TVs customer support lines faced lengthy hold times during the outage, which began last night and lasted for at least a couple of hours, according to reports. A number of customers on Reddits Sling TV forumsaid they were on hold for over 20 or 25minutes, for example, some on Twitter noted hold times of 30 minutes, and on Facebook, there were reports of hold times of 45 minutes.Sling acknowledged the outage onits official Twitter account and Facebook page yesterday evening, saying that it was aware customers were experiencing issues and its technical team was working to resolve the problem. An hour later, the company tweeted the issues were resolved, but the actual outage had last much longer  Slings account had been fielding complaints well ahead of its posts on the matter.The problem with Sling TV outages, versus a streaming video competitor like Netflix or Hulu, is that Sling TV is primarily a live TV service. In addition, because of Slings ability to stream ESPN content,many of its subscribers are tuning in to watch games and other eventsin real time. That means when Sling TV crashes for hours, its customers are really missing out. Even if they were watching non-sports programming, theoptions for getting caught up are limited following an outage as, due to licensing agreements, not all shows are available on demand. Plus, those whoare sometimes have limited back catalogs.This is not the first time that Sling TV has crashed under the strain. The companys first major outage occurred during the Final Fourbasketball tournament. Following that event, the company announced it had made improvements to the way it managed load and handled new customer sign-ups. But it then crashed again during the April 12 premiere of HBOs Game of Thrones  though not quite as bad. Most issue were then limited to using Sling via its Roku app.So far, the company has been fairly transparent when it comes to its outages. After the two prior issues, Sling TV published blog posts apologizing for the problems and explaining whats being done to prevent future issues. Sling TV has yet to do the same for last nights outage as of the time of writing.The company has responded to our requests for more information about the outage, noting that its teams are still investigating the cause, but the focus is on making sure there arent additional interruptions. The issue was addressed, Sling says, by doing an end-to-end check and thenadjusting things on the backend before restarting the systems.