Getting a fathongbao, or red envelope, stuffed with crisp new notes is one of the hallmarks of Chinese New Year, which starts today and runs for two weeks. As Chinas tech companies build their financial services, they wantto convince people that hongbaoexchanges can be just as fun when performed through a smartphone.This year, the countrys three biggest Internet companiesBaidu, Alibaba, and Tencentare offering their own version of onlinered envelopes and dressing up the custom with games and giveaways. Even the Chinese government is latching on to the digitized version of the tradition, giving away a total of 300,000 RMB (about $50,000) through Alipay, Alibabas mobile payment service.Red envelopes are traditionally gifted to children during the holiday, but they can also be given to unmarried adults, elderly relatives, friends, and employees. The companieswhich are referred to by the acronym BATrun competing mobile payment platforms and their red envelope programs mayconvince people to keep using their mobile wallets even after the holiday is over.Its still too early to tell how many people will gift money online this year, but if the past popularity of WeChats red envelope service is a fair indicator, smartphone users are eager to try new twists on a beloved tradition. The messengerwhich is owned by Tencent and Chinas most popular with 650 million monthly active usersfirst enabled people to send red envelopes through the apps WeChat Pay mobile payment service in 2014.In 2015, the company says WeChat delivered over one billion red envelopes. Then on Jan. 1, 2016 (the start of the Gregorian calendar is also an excuse for red envelope giving in China), more than 2.3 billion red envelopes were sent.To send gift money on WeChat, users click on a red envelope button in the main menu, then chose an amount and enter a gift message. Depositing money into each others WeChat Pay accounts is quick and more convenient than withdrawing cash and counting it out into packets, but it lacks the finesse of getting an actual red envelope stuffed with brand new notes.To make giving money online a little bit more personable, WeChat has come up with a game that randomizes the amount dispersed among your gift recipients and then shows who got the most after everybody opens up their envelope.Meanwhile, users of Baidu Wallet, which is made by Chinas largest search engine developer, got into the action early. Between Jan. 28 and Feb. 8, the company says users sent 4.2 billion red envelopes online containing a total of 300 million RMB (about $45.6 million).Chinas largest e-commerce company Alibaba, put its own spin on the custom by handing out virtual red envelopes with cash or gift coupons during the Spring Festival Gala, a popular annual show that airs the evening before Chinese New Year starts.The company hasnt disclosed yet how much the publicity stunt cost or the total worth of the envelopes it handed out, but its mobile payments service Alipay is one of Chinas largest, with about 400 million users.Of course, the start of the lunar calendar isnt just celebrated in China. Line, which has been banned in China for more than a year, is offering a red envelope service through Line Pay in Thailand and Taiwan, two of its top markets (the third is Japan).TechCrunch has contacted all companies for their latest red envelope figures.