Im cruising down the road at 45 mph when  ka-ching!  the sound of a cash register blares out from my iPhone. Its one of now several deal-finding apps I have installed that alert me to nearby sales at local stores. I love the functionality they provide, but Im not thrilled with the timing. The phone buzzes some more as the alerts roll in as I coast past the mall  its set back fromthe road, and Im passing it, not driving to it. Why is my phone bothering me with alerts when Im just trying to focus on the traffic?Everyone talks about the dangers of texting and driving,and our Pavlovian need to respond to incoming messages while behind the wheel. But scare campaigns focused on changing user behavior can only go so far  its time for some OS-level intervention.Im not ignoring the fact there are todaydozens of third-party applicationsthat can either disable texting, alert to and monitor the number of times someone is texting at the wheel, or help you avoid texting through voice features or narration. But they are not full solutions, especially on iOS which limits apps ability to control OS features. And they only deal withon one of many problems with behind-the-wheel use of smartphones: texting.A real solution would also eliminate all the other many distractions that smartphones bring, including the noise ofapps, constantly clamoring for users attention.Modern-day smartphones are equipped witha range of sensors that can detect things like your location, elevation, orientation, and whether youre walking or driving. Some apps, like the social driving app Waze, later acquired by Google, tap into smartphone sensors in an attempt to make using its app safer for drivers. For example, Wazedisabled text input when it detected a car thats in motion.But what about the rest of the apps? Shouldnt they, too, start thinking more responsibility about whether or not users should be able to input text at 60 mph? Couldnt that Facebook post wait, for example? Do you really need to tweet that?However, leaving the choice up to app publishers may not be the best solution.If app makersall of a sudden block app usage for drivers, they could see declining engagement and user frustrations. After all, just because youre speeding down the road in a vehicle of some sort, that doesnt mean youre driving it. And thatmeans app makers wouldhave to do what Waze did  have an opt out mechanism where you tell the app that youre riding in apassenger seat. (As a passenger, thats an annoying feature to face every time you launch an app while in the car. And for driverscheating the system, it could make matters worse.)Instead of asking app developers to reconfigure their apps for safer use, a better solution would be a system-level change: a car mode setting, activated when your phone is connected to the car viaBluetooth or physically plugged in.Unfortunately, the industry solution to combat the problem of distracted driving has been to redesign mobile operating systems for big-screen, hands-free usage in the car, via platforms like Apples CarPlay or Googles Android Auto, for example.These systems offer voice-controlled functionality, letting drivers make and respond to phone calls, pullup navigation, access playlists, and even read out your messages and let you dictate responses. Arguably, they are a bit safer than tap-typing on your phone, but theyre hardly distraction-free. (And really, theyre notthat much safer, studies have shown.)For older, or more capable drivers, systems likethose from Apple, Google or other infotainment makersfrom auto manufacturersare a somewhat reasonable alternative to texting and driving. But for younger drivers, or those of us already dealing with other in-vehicle distractions  like wailing kids, backseat video players, chatty passengers, wiggling dogs, etc.  tapping screens, and chatting with Siri, however safer, should not be a focus.At the very least, the OS makers themselves have a responsibility to allow consumers without access to infotainment systems, including not just parents but alsothe rest of us struggling withself-control issues when it comes to our mobile devices in the car, to automate aswitching over to car mode when were behind the wheel.For parents, it could be a choice within the phones parental controls. For others, it could be an optional setting.In addition to disabling texting and driving (hopefully auto-responding with a helpful Im driving right now text back to the sender), these systems should also optionally silence phone calls (hopefully with a helpful custom voicemail greeting: Im driving right now, Ill call you back!), and disable the ability for apps to push you notifications.No more buzzing and beeping, no more ka-chings.When the car has been stopped for some period of time longer than a traffic light, a stream of catch-up messages could then pour in.This conceptto some extent has already been dreamt up, by the way, years ago byNew York designer Joey Cofone, who envisionedan iOS 7 feature that would stop texting and driving.In addition, Apple already has a patent on something like this  it has developed technology that shuts off texting and other smartphone functions when it determines a user is driving.Now its time to use it.Cell phones arenow responsible for 1 in 4 car crashes. Its time to make distracted driving solutions an OS industry standard.Image credits: Shutterstock, Waze, Apple, Joey Cofone