Despite being on our phones for years, Siri still often gets confused by our questions. Cloe, an SMS-based recommendation engine, adds a human understanding that provides context to our queries. And Cloeco-founder Chase Hildebrand hopeshis text-based service willbecome the better Siriforfinding out the best of everything around you.Whens the last time you used Siri? You tell her what you are looking for and she either brings up some random list that may or may not relate to what you want or she didnt understand what you were asking, he told me over drinks at Nopa in San Franciscos Lower Haight neighborhood.Cloe recommended the restaurant and set up the reservation for us last night.She even described Hildebrand, telling me hehad blonde hair and would be wearing a gray and green T-shirt,so I would be able to find him in the crowded restaurant.Thekey to Cloeis the ease of use. Youdont have to download, install or sign up for anything. You just text what youre looking for and where youre located and she gives you her best recommendation, from a good burrito, yoga studio or place to get your shoe re-heeled. Itssort of like the now-defunctChaChabut for finding good restaurants.According to Hildebrand the future wont be defined by apps but experiences. Everyone has an app. Popeyes fast food has an app. We dont need more apps. We need the experience to be seamless, he says.While people still use tried-and-truerecommendation apps like Yelp and Foursquare, those can be gamed. They also take several steps to download, sign up and set up filters. Cloe just pulls in the information and will even order for you.Hildebrand told me thathe and co-founder Paige Skinner set up a phone booth on the New York High Line over a year ago to test the service. They invited passersby to try what was then called Clola. Word spread, Clolas number was shared, and within a week 500 people had used the service more than7,000 times. Thats when he knew he had something.He launched Cloe just a couple of days ago to a handful of individuals. Product Hunts Ryan Hoover and a few select others got a card in the mail with Cloes number. But youprobably wont get in if you try it right now. Hildebrand says hes beeninundated with requests to join and that over 2,000 people are now on the waiting list.Other services are starting to run on a similar mix of human-powered AI. You can text Ethan for a chat and somelife advice. You can schedule meetings bytextingJarvis. The key to these types of services is that although they use artificial intelligence and machine learning to get to know you better and work quickly, they still need humans to operate them.Using Cloe felt like texting a humanthe entire time. I asked her if she was human or robot. She said she suffered from an identity crisis. Shes mostly robot, according to Hildebrand, but like a modern plane flight, she needs a pilot to land.I wasnt sure how he planned to keep up with the high demand. He tells me he only has a couple Cloes at the moment.While hedidnt want to give away too much of the secret sauce behind how it all works, he claims the current Cloes can handle at least 500 people at a time.Cloe is a bootstrapped startup at the moment. Hildebrandwill most likely be looking for funding soon to help with the demand. Were going to need more Cloes, he says.