I think this is one of the most exciting times to be in the music business.Thats not a sentiment I hear very often, but its what Smule CEO Jeff Smith told me this week. You could, I suppose, classifythis astypical startup bluster After all, Smith and I were talking about the success that Smule has been seeing with social music apps like Sing! Karaoke. (He said the company saw $40 million in sales last year, compared to $21 million in 2013. It now has 350,000 payingsubscribers from a monthly active user base of 21 million.)But Smith also made a larger point about the music industry. While its easy to blame the record industrys decline on piracy and the transition to digital, he suggestedthat theres another culprit: Really, I think the bigger issue for the music industry is that they never controlled their distribution to the customer. Among other things, he said that meantthe industry had to get its data secondhand, through retailers, and that, in turn, led to bad decision-making.Smith is someone whos particularly interested in data about how people engage with music  in fact, he wrote a dissertation at Stanford based on Smule data, examining how cultural differences might lead to different styles of musical performances. (And yes, he managed to get his Ph.D. while also running a startup.)Smith contrasted the record industrys approach withApple, which he suggested was acompany thats used audience data to improve distribution, which in turn improves the data. And naturally, thats what hes trying to do at Smule as well.To illustrate the scale of the activity that the company is tracking, Smith said users are performing 10 million songs per day and, as a result, uploading 1.5 terabytes of content. (Thats a map of Smule uploads over the past two years at the top of this post.) With all that activity, Smith suggested that his team has developed a sophisticated model for understanding how to keep listeners engaged, and how to convert them into paying subscribers. For example, he said that the songs that listeners choose to sing can offer a lot of hints about who they are.The joke we have internally  and this is a joke, its not a true yet  is that after a user selects the third song they want to sing or play  we should be able to tell their mothers maiden name, he said.By the way, Smule has achieved thisgrowth despite going two and a half years without launching a new app. It has, however, launched a website where people can watch performances uploaded from the various mobile apps, and its also improved its apps with new features like video.Smith told me that he wants Smule to avoid the pitfalls of the many game developers that are always relying on the success of their next big hit  thats why all of his business projections for growth and eventual profitability (starting in 2016) are based entirely on updating existing apps and going deeper on our networks. That said, he still plans to launch something new in 2015.We know we should ship more  we havent had the time, he said.The numbers are impressive, and it does indeed seem like Smule is well on its way to achieving Smiths vision of building a social network around music. But Smith also suggested that the companys success can benefit musicians. Yes, the company isnt paying for the actual recordings (so it avoids their high costs of companies like Pandora and Spotify), but it does pay the standard royalty to composers. And it helps the performers on Smule, too, both in the general sense of helping them connect with their fans, and in the more concrete sense of giving the top performers a cut of the revenue.Smith said he cant get into the details of thosedeals , but he pointed to the Gregory Brothers as one success story, with the group creating lots of fun, collaborative performances with fans (28,400 people created duets with Evan Gregorys cover of All About That Bass heres one of them). And theyve used their success on Smule to drive more sales on iTunes.The business model for music is engagement, and thats nothing to be afraid of, Smith said.