On the heels of Facebooks announcement last week that they had surpassed 8 billion daily video views, Snapchat confirmed to the FT over the weekendthat users of the ephemeral messaging app were now watching 6 billion videos every day.Whats really notable about this latest reveal is how damn quickly it seems like video is taking off for Snapchat even though its been around on the service since late 2012. The last reported video viewing numbers for Snapchat were in September when it announced that there were 4 billion videos being watched through the app daily. In May, Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel told Bloomberg that the company had 2 billion daily video views.Its apparent that Snapchat is getting serious about making video messaging content more engaging. Over the past couple of months theyve introduced features like Lenses to add fun filters to photos and videos while theyve also added fast-forward and slow-motion video editing options to allow users to stylize the content they send a bit more.Electrified selfie courtesy of one of Snapchats new lensesAt a certain point some metrics are so highly variable based on their individual definitions that they only become useful in comparing a networks growth relative to itself. Facebook counts a view after an autoplay video has been onscreenfor 3 seconds, meanwhile networks like YouTube have previously reported that they only counted views after 30 seconds of watch time.Snapchat videos, on the other hand, focus on very precise moments, and can only last for a maximum of ten seconds anyway. The company hasnt officially detailed how they classify a view, but reports have arisen over the last few months that advertisers are being charged once a video begins, or at 0 seconds, so Id imagine thats probably representativeof how theyre approaching view counts in general.Its generally kind of fruitlessto argue which definition of a view is most accurate orwhether its even a relevant metric. Some video streaming platforms like YouTube and Periscope have shifted their metrics to measure time watched and actually showcase the actual time amount of content being viewed.The most irresistible comparison to make with this new metric is in balancing Snapchats video-viewing acumen with that of Facebook, who reported in their quarterly earnings report that they were racking up over8 billion video viewson a daily basis. Their last reported daily video views was 4 billion back in April.What makes these metrics especially hard to compare is that all of these platforms are often best used for distinctly different purposes. Im watching ongoing Q&As on Periscope, I can check out full documentaries on YouTube, while now Im using Facebook the way I used to use YouTube in checking out funny videos and following peoples channels. Snapchat is at its core a messaging app and thereby users are encouraged to be much more concise. While products inside of it like Stories and Live are developing into more widely-focused newsfeed-like features (which is where Id imagine a lot of those views are coming from as users quickly tap through updates), right now Snapchat is still succeeding in its strategyof keepingall content bite-sized.One thing is abundantly clear with this announcement: Snapchats rate of video content growth is insane, suggesting that its users are only growing more engaged with the app. Even with a tenth of the DAUs as Facebook (last reported), based on current growth rates Snapchat may soon overtake Facebook in terms of daily video views. What that actually means is opento interpretation, but hey, keymetrics measured in billionsfor a startup valued inbillions cant be a bad thing.