The annals of live video are littered with cautionary tales. For every hype-driven social video startup that had a coming out party at South By Southwest, there is a matching tombstone.On The Talk Show earlier this week I talked to host John Gruber about Meerkat. One of the concepts I floated on there is something Ive been thinking about for a bit: The idea of services like Snapchat, Meerkat (and Twitters recent acquisition Periscope), YouNow, and even Vine as empathy machines.The raw, immediate and intimate nature of un-filtered access does more than just lend a feeling of veracity to these services.That truth or realness factor is often cited as a prime driver of Snapchats success. Ive heard a hundred variants of millennials dont like it when video is produced or manufactured feel, thats why they like Snapchat. I dont think so. I know plenty of people in that category (and younger) that watch a bunch of trashy TV that is plenty produced. Its not the fact that it looks kind of crappy that keeps them coming back to Snapchat and that (I think) will fascinate them about Periscope and Meerkat.Instead, its the empathic transaction that occurs when youre given an intimate look into someones life, sans-filter. By simply eliminating the tools or time needed to stage your life, these products cut through those tendencies we have to be the thing that people think we are.There is an exchange of emotional states between the viewer and the streamer that isnt duplicated by any other medium. This can lead to greater understanding, a willingness to engage in a dialog rather than an argument and the broadening of worldview.My co-editor Alexia referred to it as the opposite of Instagram, which I thought was astute (as always). With products like Instagram, youre always on. For most people, Instagram isnt an honest interchange of ideas or emotions  its performance art. Youre not presenting what you are, youre presenting what youd like to be.Snapchat (or Meerkat), by comparison, offer very little in the way of tools to manufacture your ideal world. They do this in different ways, of course. Snapchat and Meerkat are opposite sides of the same coin. Snapchats core product offers an intimate conversation from one person to another. Stories is a bit more in-sync with the live streaming of something like Meerkat, though it is still asynchronous. Dont think that Snapchat will resist dipping toes into the other side for long, though. Real-time streaming seems a complete, natural fit for what theyre doing with Stories.Currently, were seeing the phase of Meerkat where people are streaming and talking about Meerkat. Then well see the bit where people are showing off all the fun things theyre doing. Then the celebrities will show up. But then, maybe, it will be the teenage girl who feels like shes alone in the world. And she streams, and people respond and she understands shes not.When we get to that point  if we do  then we have something truly powerful.Meerkat and Periscope are completely synchronous, which is both a blessing and a curse. Scaling is a total crap shoot, especially when larger platforms dont play nice, as with Meerkat. Itsup in the air whether well ever see a critical mass of people both broadcasting and watching live streams. But Im inclined to think we will.That synchronicity, by the way, is what has investors salivating and companies like Twitter making acquisitions so early. Live streaming literally monopolizes your entire phones screen and 100% of your attention. There is almost nothing else that does this. The closest thing we have to that currently is messaging apps.If you look at all of the apps on your phone, whatever brand, there is only one application that is a biological imperative: communication. Thats why messaging apps, or broadcast apps, are so compelling. Humans must commune, there is no other option. Previously, those facilitators were the phone, then the text message. For a while now it has been images. For users of the iPhone, FaceTime has already primed you to stream video live, with all of its awkward pauses and fat-face camera angles.And a half-dozen other factors including the proliferation of LTE, mobile devices with great cameras, the fact that mobile video actually loads and a more socially connected world have conspired to make this a very ripe time to take another stab at live video.There is also the matter of context. A mobile device can tell the viewer so many more things. The context of streaming from a desktop is always the desktop. Here is some variation but nothing like mobile. A mobile device can communicate your location, temperature, elevation, speed and even your surroundings. This context adds an entirely new dimension that could be the defining factor this time around.Yesterday, Twitter kneecapped Meerkat by cutting off access to its follower/following graph, but I think that might be the best thing for the product (as long as it doesnt kill it). People that already have a big audience  journalists, Twitter celebrities, actual celebrities  are always the early adopters, but theyre sort of an echo chamber.Its hard to tell what the real use cases of Meerkat may actually be, and pushing them to create discovery and their own graph early on might result in a more diverse and balanced core user group. Just as regular people use Instagram, Twitter, Vine and Snapchat in a completely different way than the cognoscente, the masses will find different uses for Meerkat.Whatever those uses are, there is something very intriguing about an interaction model that fosters genuine emotional interchange, rather than a carefully crafted success theater.Or we could all be writing remember streaming video, lol articles this time next year. Either way, this should be interesting.Post updated with additional context, and to include YouNowImage: Martin Bryant