Snapchat is seeking to raise up to $500 million in a new round that includes Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba andSaudi Arabian investor Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, according to a source. TheLos Angeles-based messaging app company hasraised$648 million from investors to date.Alibaba and Snapchat declined to comment.Bloomberg today reported that Alibaba is in talks to invest $200 million in Snapchat at a $15 billion valuation, and a source confirmed those detailsto TechCrunch. We are toldthat Snapchat is again keen to securea $19 billion valuation,but that for some reason it did not happen with this piece.Bloomberg reportedthat Alibabas investment is separate to an ongoing effort to raise up to $500 million, but we understand thatit is part of a singleround. Snapchatis raising the funding (which is not closed yet) in a less-than-conventional manner once again.Thats to say that it is jumbling a range of investors together to form a round heres what wewrote on Snapchats fundraising methodology before:Snapchat is interesting in that they break the conventions of traditional fundraising, one source tells us. Traditionally an entrepreneur will set out to raise a round for a specified amount of money, and then you get interested investors on the same page based on an agreed valuation and then you close it. Spiegel does this somewhat differently. He goes after individual investors at different valuations. Its a rolling investment and a rolling close. In theory you could say hes already done 40 rounds. (40 is likely figurative rather than literal.)Another interesting nugget: Weve heard billionaire Saudi investor Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, who was a Twitter investor, is a participant in the round.Prince AlwaleedsKingdom Holding organization confirmed this weekend that it met with Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel to discuss future potential business cooperation. That, it seems, means investment opportunities.The Prince is no stranger to U.S. tech firms andhas held investments in a range of companies, including Twitter,AOL, Apple, Motorola and Fox. He personally owns 95% of Kingdom Holding, and Forbes putshis estimated wealthat$22.7 billion.Spiegel meeting PrinceAlwaleed [source]Alibaba waslinked with an investment in Snapchat last year, but a deal never materialized. Leaked emails from Sony,including those of Sony Entertainment CEO and Snapchat investor Michael Lynton, showed there had been meetings between both sides, thoughit seems totaken some time for those discussions to be consummated.Snapchat endedlast year by quietly closing a$485 million funding round from 23 investors. We reported at the time that the company had initially aimed to land $900 million,this time around the goal seems less lofty.