Edward Snowden, who you might have heard of by now, took to Reddit today along with journalists Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras. Poitras won an Oscar last night for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. Poitras winning film, CITIZENFOUR, covers when Greenwald, the filmmaker, and Snowden were together in Hong Kong, right before the documents were leaked and the world changed.Im no film critic, but I can understand why the film won the award  its a raw look at a moment in history that has proven to be geopolitically pivotal, leading to change at the level of nations and multinational corporations.The Reddit session is much of what you would expect  you can read the full episode here  but there is one Snowden answer I think is worth highlightingin response to a question concerning how to bring domestic surveillance back to the fore of discussion, and perhaps to make it into an issue for the 2016 presidential election.Heres Snowden, at full length:This is a good question, and there are some good traditional answers here. Organizing is important. Activism is important.At the same time, we should remember that governments dont often reform themselves. One of the arguments in a book I read recently (Bruce Schneier, Data and Goliath), is that perfect enforcement of the law sounds like a good thing, but that may not always be the case. The end of crime sounds pretty compelling, right, so how can that be?Well, when we look back on history, the progress of Western civilization and human rights is actually founded on the violation of law. America was of course born out of a violent revolution that was an outrageous treason against the crown and established order of the day. History shows that the righting of historical wrongs is often born from acts of unrepentant criminality. Slavery. The protection of persecuted Jews.But even on less extremist topics, we can find similar examples. How about the prohibition of alcohol? Gay marriage? Marijuana?Where would we be today if the government, enjoying powers of perfect surveillance and enforcement, had  entirely within the law  rounded up, imprisoned, and shamed all of these lawbreakers?Ultimately, if people lose their willingness to recognize that there are times in our history when legality becomes distinct from morality, we arent just ceding control of our rights to government, but our agency in determing thour [sic] futures.How does this relate to politics? Well, I suspect that governments today are more concerned with the loss of their ability to control and regulate the behavior of their citizens than they are with their citizens discontent.How do we make that work for us? We can devise means, through the application and sophistication of science, to remind governments that if they will not be responsible stewards of our rights, we the people will implement systems that provide for a means of not just enforcing our rights, but removing from governments the ability to interfere with those rights.You can see the beginnings of this dynamic today in the statements of government officials complaining about the adoption of encryption by major technology providers. The idea here isnt to fling ourselves into anarchy and do away with government, but to remind the government that there must always be a balance of power between the governing and the governed, and that as the progress of science increasingly empowers communities and individuals, there will be more and more areas of our lives where  if government insists on behaving poorly and with a callous disregard for the citizen  we can find ways to reduce or remove their powers on a new  and permanent  basis.Our rights are not granted by governments. They are inherent to our nature. But its entirely the opposite for governments: their privileges are precisely equal to only those which we suffer them to enjoy.We havent had to think about that much in the last few decades because quality of life has been increasing across almost all measures in a significant way, and that has led to a comfortable complacency. But here and there throughout history, well occasionally come across these periods where governments think more about what they can do rather than what they should do, and what is lawful will become increasingly distinct from what is moral.In such times, wed do well to remember that at the end of the day, the law doesnt defend us; we defend the law. And when it becomes contrary to our morals, we have both the right and the responsibility to rebalance it toward just ends.Shorter Snowden: Governments dont reform themselves, so well have to do it with technology; our rights are inherent, and if we have no option other than direct action to enforce change, we might have to push.The exchange led to one of the single best exchanges that I have ever seen on Reddit:That gif, of course, is this one:Snowden, youll note, was careful not tospecifyhow we might go about a rebalance of the power of government and the rights of the private citizenry. If he had, it would have been instant fodder for the Right to claim that all along, despite every evidence to the contrary, that Snowden has indeed been an activist for intra-national regime change. A coup, in other words. Instead, Snowden points out that sometimes you will not behanded the change you are looking for.Answering the same question, Greenwald made a salient point about the hydra that is consensus, a word that has become oddly enshrined in our modern political vernacular as a Good [Edited for length]:The key tactic DC uses to make uncomfortable issues disappear is bipartisan consensus. When the leadership of both parties join together  as they so often do, despite the myths to the contrary  those issues disappear from mainstream public debate. []The problem is that the leadership of both parties, as usual, are in full agreement: they love NSA mass surveillance. So that has blocked it from receiving more debate. That NSA program was ultimately saved by the unholy trinity of Obama, Nancy Pelosi and John Bohener, who worked together to defeat the Amash/Conyers bill. []Thats why the Dem efforts to hand Hillary Clinton the nomination without contest are so depressing. Shes the ultimate guardian of bipartisan status quo corruption, and no debate will happen if shes the nominee against some standard Romney/Bush-type GOP candidate. Some genuine dissenting force is crucial.Finally, Poitras made an excellent point concerning her status as a journalist, and the different work of the filmmaker:Thanks for the kind words. I definitely consider myself a journalist, as well as an artist and a filmmaker. In my mind, its not a question about whether I am one or the other. Documentary films needs [sic] to do more than journalism  they need to communicate something that is more universal.Poitras went on to note that not only does she have more Snowden footage that she may release, but that she shot an interview with Wikileaks Julian Assange that she realized in the edit room was a separate film.Most recently in the NSA leak saga, NSA documents sourced from Snowden and published by Greenwald showed that the NSA had compromised the security of a SIM card company, stolen encryption keys, partially rendering the security of perhaps billions of phones moot.FEATURED IMAGE: GREENSEFA/FLICKR UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE