(Sorry for the tackiness of the headline above. This company, Rescue Forensics, has aprettyfascinatingbackstory.)About a decade ago, Ryan Dalton was an 18-year-old who was helping a friendbuilda halfway house for women workingin the red-light district inReynosa, Mexico. One day, he witnessed a man who was a member of violent cartel hita woman and yell at her to get back.Ididnt know to call that sex trafficking at that time, but I knew that it was wrong, he said.It was the beginning of what hasbeenan entire career thusfar. During law school, Dalton started an anti-trafficking department ofnonprofit Operation Broken Silence, and testified in hearings to change 29 laws and amendments in Tennessee on trafficking.Those years of on-the-ground work gave him a keen familiarity with how women can get pulled into sex work against their will.Its almost never an abduction, Daltonexplained. Its not like that Liam Neeson movie, Taken, which is what a lot of people think, hesaid.It is an abuse of love or trust, he said.Its this deep psychological manipulation thats almost like StockholmSyndrome. They dont see it as exploitation, even if these men take their money or abuse them.Traffickers will go and seek out women with low self-esteem and then shower them with attention, money or care.It might start as a romantic relationship, like finding a new boyfriend.They look for children who live in poverty, runaway youth or kids in foster kids thatdontget the attention that they need from adults in their lives, he said. But at some point, the trafficker will do a bait and switch. Theyll groom this person over time until they become compliant andhave sex in order to receive affection. A trauma bond is created.He also saw how trafficking was changing with the advent of the Internet,and that investigators would need a whole new set of tools tocrack down on sex work involving underage women.Human trafficking is no longer on the streets where police can observe and monitor it, he said. Itsgone to the Internet.After finishing law school, he and co-founder Brandon Hamric started working part-time on tools that could filter, track and record escort listings for potentially suspicious behavior involvingminors. They applied for Y Combinator and vowed that if they got in, they would quit their jobs and do this full-time as a company, calling it Rescue Forensics.Basically, Rescue Forensics builds search software that helps law enforcement officials collect and document online evidence that could be used to prosecute traffickers in court.The company itself doesnt make any judgments about what might constitute illegal trafficking behavior. Thats up to investigators todetermine, as there are adult women who want todo sex work and arent being trafficked.ButRescue Forensicsdoesprovide a way to document and manage listings that can quicklypop up and disappear on Craigslist or other listing sites across an entire region.Dalton said that so far, nine victims have been rescued.Whenhe got a call about the very first one, he was in tears.She was a 16-year-old who was being moved around from Dallas to San Antonio and then Amarillo, Texas.Using Rescue Forensics, they were able to track her movement, plug in herphone, find her location, conduct a sting and rescue her, he said.Hamric and Dalton are offering the software for free. They now have a few hundred state and local agencies using it across the U.S. and Europe.They envision building out premium features and then using their close relationships with local law enforcement workers to build out better and more effective software tools in other areas. So far, theyve raised $80,000 in seed funding to pay for server costs and travel.They plan to move back to Tennessee after finishing the winter Y Combinator program. Its a different world here on the West Coast and their mission is serious.Daltonsaid that hell go to dinner parties in San Francisco.Everybody will be sipping theircocktails or their mojito. Theyll saysomething like theyre building an ad network, Dalton said. When I get asked, I usually say web intelligence, hoping thattheyll leave me alone.If they askmorequestions, everyones buzz gets killed, he quipped.