After years of raising hundreds of millions of dollars to tap into the burgeoning e-commerce market in India,one of the countrys biggest tech companies is facing a markdown in its valuation as it aims to pick up yet more investment.TechCrunch has learned from sources that Flipkart is looking to raise up to$1 billion in funding to grow its business and shore up against competition from local rival Snapdeal and global giantAmazon.But those efforts are coming at a price. Reportedly valued at over $15 billion when it raised $700 million last year, Flipkart is now facing a down round, with some investors willing to put more money into the company, but at a valuation below$15 billion.The funding is now delayed and should take another 3-4 months. A down round is certain, said a source.According to our sources,one potential investoris Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. The company  already a backer of rival Snapdeal  reportedly met with Flipkart management in Hong Kongto discuss investing at less than$10 billion. Other sources say a round wouldnot be this low, and more likely in the range of $11 billion to $14 billion. Alibabas allegedinterest in Flipkart has been reportedpreviously.Another investor that has been eyeing up a stake in Flipkart is the Fosun Group, sometimes referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway of China. Its not clear what valuation Fosun has discussed with Flipkart.Neither company responded to requests for comment in connection with this story, and Flipkart declined to comment.Coincidentally, Alibaba this weekfinalized a $3 billion loan, which could point to the company making more investments or acquisitions in the near future.But there are also challenges. One issue for Flipkart  which has raised over $3 billion to date  has been that some existing investors have revisedtheir valuations of the e-commerce giant. In February, it emerged that Morgan Stanley marked down its stake in the company, valuing it at $58.9 million. This was 27 percent below the price of its last valuation, giving the whole of Flipkart an implied valuation of $11 billion.The company has also been througha management shakeup. One of the most significant changes is thatin January of this year, Flipkartchanged CEOs, with co-founder Sachin Bansal stepping down and Binny Bansal, the other co-founder (the twoarenot related), taking over. Sachin is the companys executive chairman.Another issue maybe thatthe company is finding it a challenge to meetinternal targets. A report in Indian financial publication Mint noted that the company had set a goal back in 2014 for annualized gross merchandise value (the total value of goods sold on its platform) of $8 billion, but current annualized GMV figures are at around $5 billion.On top of this are the margins that e-commerce companies in India are playing with. The competition in the market has led to a costly price war betweenFlipkart and its rivals, for example around key holiday periods like Diwali.Armed for more marketing and growth, Snapdeal has raised less money than its localrival  around $1.5 billion to date. But Flipkart is also staring at another huge competitor from the global arena.Much has been written about how Amazon is intent on conquering India, which it believes longer term could be its second most-important market after the U.S. according to this Fortune profile of Amazons India operation.Amazon has been building up not just its brand in the country but its infrastructure. As part of this itacquired an online payments company and isreportedly working on a digital wallet initiative. This is, incidentally, another area where Amazon isfacing local players. Paytmis also in the process of fundraising right now, and some have even suggested that Paytm andFlipkart merge to stand taller.There is an undeniable amount of potential in India, a market approaching 1.3 billion people whereeMarketer projectse-commerce will be worth$55 billion by2018, up from $14 billion in 2015. But with investor appetite cooling a little on overheated valuations, the pressure is on for highly capitalised businesses to tighten up their operations for the next phase of growth. Thats a trend impacting others beyond e-commerce marketplaces, too. Ola shuttered its food delivery operations this week; and Zomato also downsizedlast autumn.Pankaj Mishrais editor-in-chief and cofounder of FactorDaily, a new media startup.