The U.S. Air Force has awarded SpaceX an $82.7 million contract to launch their GPS-3 satellite into orbit.This is the first National Security Space (NSS) contract for SpaceX, who won essentially by default since ULA, the only other viable competitor, declined to bid in the competition.This GPS III Launch Services contract award achieves a balance between mission success, meeting operational needs, lowering launch costs, and reintroducing competition for National Security Space missions. Lt. Gen. Samuel Greaves, Air Force Program Executive Officer for SpaceSpaceX winning the first competitively sourced NSS contract is evidence that the rules of the military launch market have officially changed. For more than a decade, ULA enjoyed a monopoly over these Air Force military contracts. Over the past two years, however, much has happened between SpaceX, the Air Force and ULA that changed that situation.In April of 2014, SpaceX filed suit against the Air Force in an effort to break ULAs monopoly and gain the ability to compete for national-security-related launches.Elon Musk, CEO of SpaceX, argued that ULAs monopoly of Air Force launches was unjustified. Musk stated, This contract is costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars for no reason, and to add salt to the wound, the primary engine thats used is a Russian engine.In January of 2015, the Air Force agreed to work with SpaceX to certify their rocket for military satellite launches and SpaceX dropped their lawsuit.Musks rocket companyultimately received certification from the Air Force later that year.Air Force certifies @SpaceX to compete for launching national security satellites http://t.co/tLYcEDJFPV Elon Musk (@elonmusk) May 27, 2015Today, ULA and SpaceX are the only two companies certified to compete formilitary launch contracts.So why didnt ULA bid for this one? SpaceXs competitive prices and the fact that ULAs rocket requires a Russian-made RD-180 engine are two of the main factors that led to that decision.ULAs use of a Russian engine to launch national security assets has been the source of contentious debate for a while. Congress has even gone so far as to place a purchasing ban on RD-180s altogether.ULAs RD-180-powered Atlas V launch of an Air Force GPS asset in 2014 / Image courtesy of United Launch Alliance photo / John StudwellSome saw thisbanas unfairly singling out ULA since NASA has been paying hundreds of millions of dollars to the Russians to send U.S. astronauts to the International Space Station for years now.With the purchasing ban in effectat the time (it has since been temporarily lifted), ULA declined to bid for the GPS-3 contract, stating that they couldnt guarantee that they would have a rocket available come May, 2018.Last month, ULAs engineering vice president, Brett Tobey, spoke all too frankly on the situation between ULA, their RD-180 engine and the competition with SpaceX. Among other controversial things, Tobey suggested that ULA didnt bid for the GPS-3 contract because they couldnt compete with SpaceXs prices.Along came Elon Musk and changed the game completelywe cant afford [to bid] any more because the price points are coming down as low as $60 million. The best day youll see us bid at $125 million or twice that number. Brett TobeyTobey was later forced to resign from the company..@jsutton101 These ill-advised statements do not reflect ULAs views or our relationship with our valuable suppliers. We welcome competition Tory Bruno (@torybruno) March 16, 2016But price isnt all that matters. The fact is, ULA has a longer and better track record of launches than SpaceX and, in terms of launching national security assets, thats an incredibly important trait.Unfortunately for ULA, their RD-180 engine will continue to be an issue until they find a reliable engine to replace it. Inan effort to do justthat,ULApartneredwith Blue Origin and Aerojet Rocketdyne to pursue two options for an American-made engine. However, it may take until2019to have a launch-ready engine to replace the RD-180.The satellite for thisweeks GPS-3 contract will launch on a Falcon 9 rocketfrom Cape Canaveral in May, 2018.This is thefirst of nine competitive launch services form the Air Force, so there are many more opportunitiesfor SpaceX and ULA to go head-to-head and compete for these contracts.