AsSpotify continues to grow its consumer subscription business and expandthe services it provides to artists, one of its side bets is making inroads in anotherroute to music streaming riches. Spotify-backed and co-foundedSoundtrack Your Brand, which streams music in business locations, is launching in the U.S. And to mark the news, its also announcingthat it has signed a big global deal: it is now working with McDonalds asthe provider ofstreaming music services across the fast food giantsfootprint ofmore than 36,000 restaurants and other venues.But do not read this as Spotify signing a deal with McDonalds: it turns out that the global agreements music content will be fulfilled by at least two other providers, PlayNetwork (also an investor) and Omnifone.The news comes as we have also learned that Soundtrack Your Brand has raised more money. The company  co-founded by Spotifys former head of business development and a founder of Beats Music (acquired by Apple)  has confirmed to us that it has now raised $20 million from its owners (previously it had only raised $11 million).In addition to Spotify, the othermain backers of the service are Northzone, Creandum, Wellington and TeliaSonera (essentially, a selection of the main backers of Spotify itself); and PlayNetwork, a competitor to MoodMusic (Muzak owner).$20 million, of course, is modest compared to Spotify, which has raised $1.6 billion and is valued at over $8.5 billion. But the bigger parent companyfaces challenges: not only are the economics of the consumer streaming business problematic; but there is fierce competition from the likes of Apple and Google  not to mention pure-play digital music companies.Meanwhile, something interesting is developing on the smaller B2B front: the market has largely not been touched for years  many businesses still use CDs or antiquated recording systems  but its one where companies are willing to pay for services. And if a company can leverage technology to provide analytics and commercial insights on how a venues audio system impacts the business, then there is an opportunity to make revenues through more than one channel.The McDonalds deal is a framework agreement. Soundtrack Your Brand has been named as the provider for streaming services to McDonalds locations. But as the company operates on a franchise model, it will mean that SYB will have to sign direct deals with locations for installations to go ahead.There is already some groundwork for this following through: before the global deal, SYB already started to work with McDonalds in Sweden (along with other companies like Starbucks). There, its already installed in some 60% of all McDonalds in the country. Ola Sars, SYBs CEO, says his company is already running pilots with some of the largest franchises outside of Sweden.Those who do sign up get boxes that can be installed with existing speakers and other equipment, and when these are hooked up online, they will get customised streams of music, along with a Spotify-like app-based experience in which employees and customers can interact with the music player as a jukebox for the 21st century.And there is a bigger analytics and big-data play here as well. Businesses can get analytics on how music and whatever else they choose to stream, be it promotions or whatever  interplays with customer activity, as a route to developing playlists that keep places jumping (and people eating and enjoying themselves).The McDonalds deal is interesting because it marks another stage of evolutionfor Soundtrack Your Brand, as it develops a more autonomous product that is not completely pinned to Spotify and continues to forge ahead with theconcept of a B2B music streaming business.Originally when the startup launched, it marketed itselfas Spotify for Business, co-founded by Spotify itself. The logic for beingtied to Spotify this way was two-fold. First, it was being fundedby Spotify, essentially as an arms-length project to see how well a B2B strategy could be developed, without clouding the growth and focus of the core team at Spotify. Second, it was based solelyon streaming music from Spotify.However,the McDonalds deal has surfaced an issue, which is that Spotify is not available in every country where McDonalds is present. So now, Soundtrack Your Brand will be working with more than one provider: added to the list now are PlayNetwork (its other strategic investor) and Omnifone.Big brands that are internationalwant to have a global solution, but our current investor and solution doesnthave licenses for B2Bin all markets, notes co-founder Andreas Liffgarden (the ex-Spotify business development honcho). So weneeded to look forother sources. As one example, take South Korea, he said. This is one of McDonalds key markets but Spotify hasnt even launched there. Its a jigsaw puzzle.