Moresigns that security is rising up the investment agenda: another security-focused accelerator program has launched, hoping to put a clutch of security startups through their paces  this one with backing from veteransecurity firm Kaspersky Labs, via its educational arm Kaspersky Academy.The Security Startup Challenge (SSC), as its being called (its part accelerator, part startup competition), also hasMangrove Capital Partners and Russian VC firm, theABRT Fund, putting money behind it.Itfollows the launch last month of another not-for-profit cyber security accelerator in London, called CyLon  with counts Passion Capitals Eileen Burbidge among its advisors.VC firms are clearly eyeing up a fatteningsecurity pie. Kaspersky points to CB Insights data which tracked a 36 per cent increase in related financing last year, to a full year spend of $2.39BN, specifically coveringInternet monitoring andsecurity, mobile security and management, and data and networksecurity. The analyst firm notesa further $141 million has been invested in those areas already this year.Unlike CyLon, which has a West London home, theSSC accelerator program is not based at a single physical location. But like CyLon no equity is being taken in the participating startups (although SSC startups have to fund their own living costs for the program duration, but that seems fair given they can mostly stay at home).The incentive here is for Kaspersky to get proximity to new business ideas, and the participating VC firms to improvetheir security-related deal flow  given they can always step in and invest in any of theearly stage businessesthat catch their eye.Technology megatrends such as mobile, cloud computing and theInternet of Things are leaving consumers increasingly, andunwittingly, exposed to cybercrooks. Perhaps more worrying is the factthat criminal syndicates operating on the Internet are as scalable asany other Internet-enabled business, saysMangroves Michael Jackson, commenting on the launch in a statement. We need to innovate ourapproach to cybersecurity to meet the demands of this newhyper-connected world.Its not a secret that the cyber threat landscape is constantly evolving. New threats appear every day and the industry needs really new approaches, new ideas, new technologies. And I think these young, really intelligent and really talented guys can really contribute, addsKaspersky Labs Natasha Obelets, in an interview with TechCrunch.At the moment we do not have any plans to acquire any startups but of course if we see this idea can be really helpful or useful for our current developments, our current technologies we can surely collaborate with these guys. But no plans to acquire any startups at the moment, she adds.The SSC bootcamp/competitionis open to startups based anywhere, and the three-month program is mostly remotely delivered. Although there will also be a series of (optional) preliminary two-day workshopsin Jerusalem,Berlin, San Francisco, Singapore and Moscow, where startups hoping to join the program will have a chance to catch the eye of the selection committee. The program proper will also kick off withtwo bootcamps in Luxembourg, so theres a bit of a European location bias.The SSC lists the full schedule(including the optional components) as runningfrom March to August. The actualaccelerator program starts in May. Thefinale will be a pitch off type eventat the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the U.S. in August, whereseven shortlistedteams will be competing for an $80,000 prize fund (put up by Kaspersky Labs). The price money will be split between three teams; with first prize being $50,000, $20,000 for second, and $10,000 for third.Online registration  for both the workshops and main program  isopen now and will run until April. The closing date for applications is April 28. Forty places arebeing made available to early stage startups, with a focus on young entrepreneurs (in the 18 to 35 year age-range), says Obelets. The selection committee includes Kasperskeys global research and analysis team and its R&D team, along with business partners such as its VC backers.What can the security startups whichget selectedexpect? Ablend of security-focused and business mentorship and advice (from more than 30 experts), mostly doled out online  so perhaps a little less serendipitously blended than startup bootcamp programs thatsweat their teams in a shared co-working space. Thinkmore pre-arranged Skypecalls than random watercooler conversations.A partial list ofmentors can be found on the SSC website.As for areas of interest, Kaspersky is keeping things pretty broad-brush.Were really interested in such areas as Internet of Things mobile cloud fintech or healthcare Were very flexible, saysObelets. The job of our experts  they know very well what is going on now for instance in the mobile area  and their job is to shape the ideas of the young startupers and make them really work and make them visible, and make them relevant. Maybe sanity checking Checking these ideas against market trends, what is hot, what is most acute at the moment.This is the first startup-focused program the company has run but its hoping itwont be its last. Indeed, its aiming to scale it up. Which figures, given the only certainty in the security space appears to be risinginsecurity as more types of devices come online  where hackers can find them.We hope to run it on an annual basis, she adds. The first year were see how it works. And next year we will cover I think all geographies. Because now we cover the U.S., Europe, Asia, Russia, so we want to cover the whole world. We have ambitious plans! she adds.