Another premium cable TV network, Starz, is taking the plunge into the streaming video market with todays launch of its own standalone streaming service, aimed at cord cutters. The move follows the launches of HBOs over-the-top offering, HBO NOW, introduced last year, as well as a similar effort by Showtime. However, Starz service will differentiate itself by providingaccess to both streaming content and downloads, the company notes, and a lower price.This is the first time the company has made its content library available through a subscription service, but unlike with HBO, its not breaking out its streaming service into a separate application. HBO, as you may recall,maintains two applications: HBO GO for cable TV subscribers and HBO NOW for those who stream its programming over the web.Instead, Starz says that its single, all-in-one application will be used to offer access to the streaming service, access by authenticated TV Everywhere subscribers (those with a traditional cable TV or satellite subscription), and it will offer access for digital retail sales.Starz service is also coming in at a lower price point than its competitors. Where HBO costs $14.99/month and Showtime is $10.99/month, Starz is a more competitive $8.99/month. Of course, the network doesnt haveabreakout success like HBOs Game of Thrones, which couldjustify askingtop dollar.At launch, the programming lineup involvesover 2,400 selections monthly, includingits seriesOutlander, Power and the upcoming American Gods. However, it will be bringing in several notable Hollywood movies, like Avengers: Age of Ultron, and later this year, Star Wars: The Force Awakens.Once subscribed, up to four users can watch via the app simultaneously. The app is initially available for iOS, Apple TV, and Android.The company is also heavily promoting how its app will allow users to download content for offline viewing. While this is definitely a great feature to have  especially if you plan to be somewhere with poor service, or without an internet connection, like an airplane. However, its not quite a streaming industry first.Amazon Prime Video last fall began allowing users to download select titles for offline viewing as well  something that it hoped wouldhelp it stand out from Netflix. Unfortunately, in Amazons case, its a limited selection of its larger catalog. Starz, meanwhile, is promoting virtually unlimited downloads. (We asked the company to clarify this, and were told that nearly all of its catalog is available for download  or around 2,200 of the 2,400 total titles at launch.)Alsolike Amazon, these downloads are only accessible to activelypaying subscribers.Starz has entered the market today with an enormous value proposition for consumers. Our programing will now be more widely available to the 20 million broadband only homes of cord nevers, cord cutters and cord shavers, including Millennials and other underserved consumers who need other viable subscription service options, saidStarz CEO Chris Albrecht in a statement.The new service is launching today, and will allow signups from the app or via the web.