Startup Battlefield hopefuls, its time to stop procrastinating and apply for the Startup Battlefield at Disrupt NY. Were looking for more promising startups from the U.S. and basically anywhere else in the world to come to the Big Apple to compete in this illustrious competition.Look, we get it, youre super busy. Maybe youve been working extra hard to make some key advances in your company or find the perfect hire, or maybe you just forgot when the actual deadline was. Whatever the reason, TechCrunch is giving you one more week to get your application for the Battlefield submitted, so you now have until 9pm PT on February 29 to get your application in front of the selection team.Go ahead, do it now. Well wait. Submit an application today.So, why should you compete in the Startup Battlefield? For starters, youll get to pitch your company to some of the best and brightest entrepreneurs and investors in the world who will give you incredible feedback on how to make your product or service even better.Plus, all Battlefield companies receive pitch coaching from TechCrunch to help them perfect their pitches for our judges. Plus, each company selected to the Battlefield will get a free booth in the Battlefield section of Startup Alley so they can network with folks on the show floor, as well as the opportunity to network with speakers and judges at our VIP events. And if that isnt enough awesome stuff to encourage you to apply, the winner of the Startup Battlefield receives $50,000 and the coveted Disrupt Cup.Since 2007, the 543 Battlefield companies have raised over $5.7 billion after appearing on the TechCrunch stage, and 69 have exited. The Battlefield has helped launch companies like Zenefits, which raised a $500 million Series C round in May 2015, and Fitbit, which spiked more than 50 percent in its IPO debut in 2015.Will your company be the next Startup Battlefield success story? You wont know unless you participate, and to do that, you need to apply. So, seriously, drop what youre doing and get your application in today.You can find eligibility requirements here.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.