TechCrunch is pleased to announce the 25 startups selected to participate in the Startup Battlefield of Disrupt SF 2015. Over the next three days, these companies will compete on techs biggest stage for $50,000 and the coveted Disrupt Cup.The Battlefield represent the crme de la crme; the startups onstage represent just over 2.5 percent of those that applied. Startup Battlefield serves to showcase the most promising early-stage and, dare we say, disruptive startups in the industry.These companies will be helping small businesses manage everything from finance to staffing, increasing communication in healthcare, teaching through VR, using machines to create artwork, hot-patching your mobile apps, making kids lunches easier and enabling athletes to get trained smarter. And were just getting started.Battlefield startups hail from right here in the Bay Area and across the country  Boulder, New York and Cambridge  and around the world. Teams traveled from Austria, Canada, France, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Spain and Switzerland to participate. Eleven female founders across 10companies will take the stage this batch, setting a Battlefield record.Over the past month, these startups have been working tirelessly to prepare to launch, rushing to finalize designs, and produce that final prototype. They spent time with TechCrunch staff to hone their pitches to a crisp six minutes. All this work pays off when each startup faces off against an impressive lineup of judges during their live Q&A session.Only a few selected finalists will have a chance to present once more Wednesday this time, with $50,000 and the Disrupt Cup on the line.The Startup Battlefield hub contains all the details of the event, including the schedule, bios of the judges and more details on the companies. The pitches will begin, and be streamed live, starting at 2:25 p.m. PDT today and tomorrow.Battlefield companies will also be showcasing in the Startup Alley both days of the conference. Stop by and see what all the fuss is about.Session One:Leap Financial,Staffly, Stitch, Scrumpt, Humon
Session Two:Discovr Labs, EasyPaint, Agrilyst, Aircall, RoboTechnologies
Session Three:CoheroHealth,Artomatix,Unlimited Hand, Wild Card*SessionFour:Wellthy,GreenBits, Filter.ly,Ava Ag
Session Five:Leaf,Rollout.io,Emburse, Stampery, Preemadonna
Session Six:WakaTime, Money Intel, Separate.us, Wild Card**Wild Card companies are selected by audience vote and TechCruncheditorial staff from the Startup Alley. Cast your vote atstartupalleysf15.techcrunch.com.