Preempt Security, a startup still in stealth, came out of hidingtoday enough to announce an $8 million Series Around. Beyond that we know only a limited amount about what makes them worth such an investment.The round was led by General Catalyst with participation fromMickey Boodaei and Rakesh Loonkar, the founders of Trusteer, and Paul Sagan, the former CEO of Akamai Technologies. The company launched in 2014 with a $2 million seed round. Todays investment brings the total to $10 million.With a glutof security startups out there, this one managed to getthe attention of some well-knownsecurity investors. Without going into a lot of detail about what they do, Preempt CEOAjit Sancheti said at a high level even large companies lack the security personnel they need to meet the number of threats a company faces on a daily basis.One of the primary ways hackers find theirway into a network is stealing credentials and coming in through the front door. While Preempt isnt the first company to analyze credentials to ensure the person is who they say they are, Sancheti claims to have a way that is more reliable, requires less human involvement and wont shut down access to people who are legitimately trying to do their jobs in a way thats outside normal behavior  such as while traveling or working with a different project team.Steve Herrod, managing directorat General Catalyst, the lead investor in this deal has told me in the past he looks for companies with a unique approach to a sticky problem, a big potential market and a team that has a decent track record. Preempt checked all these boxes.For starters, Herrod says he likes the background of the team. The founders are from OneSecure, NetScreen, and Lacoon Mobile. Early team members have come from Microsoft, Checkpoint, and Q1. Many of the engineers have come from the elite 8200 group of the Israeli Defense Force (IDF), he told me.As for the product itself, he claimsits trivial to deploy and customers can seeareas to fix quickly even whenthey have all sorts of other security products in place.As for what called his attention to the tool itself, Many tools are just providing more fear and noise (not to mention several false positives). This one is very focused on spotting real problems in unique ways, but also fixing them without human interaction, he explained.As with any security product, its easy to make claims, especially when youre in stealth and cant explain exactly how it works. For now, we have to wait and see. Herrod andSancheti assure me more details are coming soon.The company has some paying customers and 15 employees with R&D offices in Tel Aviv and headquartersin San Francisco.