The insurance industry as it currently exists is, by all accounts, terrible.Its existing business model is broken atthe start, with a misalignment of incentives between the insurers (who want to keep your money so they make money) and you  whore kind of hoping that theyll actually pay you when you need them to.Well, the still-stealthy Lemonade continues to build out an impressive team giving some hope that its new model for insurance (the companystagline is Insurance that doesnt suck.) will live up to its promises.Its most recent hire is Dan Ariely, the famous behavioral scientist, who will serve as the companys Chief Behavioral Officer. Ariely is tasked, in part, with helping design systems and processes that ensure that the interests of the insurer and the insured are aligned.This was an idea of a financial institution with no conflicts of interest, Ariely told me.And the issue is pretty vital for economic health.Its particularly important for people at the lowest income levels, saidAriely. If you are wealthy enough so that if a flood hits your house and you can buy a new house  no big deal. If that step required you to take a loan or borrow on your credit cards at 15% interest  and you spend the next ten years servicing that loan thats going to be terrible.Ariely firmly believes that insurance is a key part of peoples financial and social well-being.Offering some hints for how Lemonade wants to change the industry, Ariely mentioned a few key areas where the insurer would differ from existing options when it finally launches.We want to go into the risk mitigation approach, Ariely said. One area thats a huge cost center for insurers and a potential reason for their crap approach to customer service is the high incidence of false claims that insurers have to weed through.People feel justified in trying to screw up an insurance company, he said. Dishonesty is influenced a lot by our ability to justify it. If we are dealing with a party that we think is immoral itself than we [are immoral] and justify it. We think that everybody else cheats it feels like a victimless crime.Lemonade, with Ariely, will try to bake honesty into the process of filing claims  in part by using Arielys own research. We will try to use all kinds of things we have done that we have learned on the research of dishonesty to promote people to be honest, he said. For instance, the Duke University professor has found that when people sign forms at the top of a document it encourages them to be more honest  so Lemonade may use that policy in its own applications.Thats a small example of what could be a potentially revolutionary idea in insurance.Since its public launch with a $13 million investment from Sequoia Capital and Israeli venture investor Aleph late last year, Lemonade has amassed a series of impressive wins. The company lined up Berkshire Hathaways National Indemnity, Lloyds of London, National Indemnity, Everest, Hiscox, Munich, Transatlantic, and XL Catlin as reinsurers. In all, the firms have $100 billion in surplus capital to pay out to policy holders.Whats more, the company lined up an impressive roster of executives to support its mission. New hires include the former president of product development at insurance behemoth AIG, Ty Sagalow; the former chief underwriting officer of ACE, Robert Giurlando; James Hageman the senior vice president of claims at ACE; and the head of AIGs financial planning and analysis group in the US, Ron Topping.Those names may not mean much in the tech community, but these guys are like the Satya Nadellis or Eric Schmidts of the insurance industry.So while the nitty gritty of Lemonades peer-to-peer insurance model remains under wraps, the team thats in place, the capital thats behind it, and the insurers who are supporting it all point to something big. I cant wait for these guys to tell me what it is they actually do (despite the fact that Im a little annoyed with how coy theyve been about it up til now).