


Facebook

LinkedIn

Stitch Brings Healthcare Communication Into The 21st Century
Stitch, a central messaging hub for healthcare providers, is launching today on stage at Disrupt to cut down on the $11 billion that U.S. hospitals wasteeach yeardue tobreakdowns in communication.You can think of Stitch as Slack for healthcare, except channels are organized around individual patients instead of teams or departments. When a patient checks in, the front desk can set up a channel and alert the staff. Physicians, technicians and nurses can share scans, test results, and observations in the channel as they work to diagnose the patient.Instead of integrating with Dropbox, Github or Giphy, Stitch integrates with electronic health records to pull in protected health information. Its HIPAA compliant and accessible through desktop and mobile devices.While its not necessarily obvious to the patient, there are a lot of moving parts behind the scenes in a hospital or healthcare facility. Not only are there different types of physicians, technicians andhealthcare providers treating a single patient, but these teams work in shifts. This means that a hospitalpatient willlikely be treated by a number of different healthcare providers, and each of those providersmay be seeing 20 or 30 different patients everyday.When it comes to life ordeath situations, you need to know that the other person got the message, says Stitch co-founder Bharat Kilaru. Until now, there hasnt been a really good alternative to pagers and phone calls.Not only does Stitch make this process more organized, but it documents everything thats been communicated so that doctors have a record to refer back to.Its not like these guys are regularly emailing, theyre picking up the phone and sharing super critical information, says Kilaru. All of that gets lost because theres no way to archive that or search for it.The search feature alone has the ability to revolutionize the way patients are treated. Even ifa doctor is just starting her shift and treating anexisting patient for the first time, she has access to every discussion that previouslyoccurred.And if theres an emergency, shecan quicklysearch through the patients log instead of picking up the phone to track downanotherdoctor who went home two hours ago.Stitch is releasing the basic app today free of charge. For additional features, such as electronic medical record integration, Stitch is charging $40 per provider per month, although this isnt necessary for doctorsto start using the service.Any hospital administrator will tell you that communication breakdowns are a problem that theyre facing, says co-founder Jonathan Weinstein. Whether its impacting patient satisfaction because wait time is too long or causing errors because communication broke down, its coming back to bite hospitals.A graduate of Y Combinators Summer 2015 class, Stitch has conducted trials at three universityclinics where hundreds of providers are currently using the service.