A Supreme Court order issued today closes the book on (or perhaps merely ends this chapter of) more than a decade of legal warfare between Google and the Authors Guild over the legality of the formers scanning without permission of millions of copyrighted books. And the final word is: its fair use.The 2013 decision found that the scanning of books (provided for that purpose by libraries) was not a violation of copyright, owing to its being transformative  in a technical sense. The books were not simply being resold or the like, but were being used for a new and creative purpose: a search engine for books that were frequently out of print or copyright. It doesnt provide a substitute for the original work, and the court accepted Googles argument that it was in fact doing a public service as well as providing authors with new audiences.The Appeals court found that decision sound, and now the Supreme Court has, at least, declined to examine it, which is as much as saying its fine with them.No SCOTUS for AG v Google. Thx to our supporters, we'll keep fighting to protect copyright & authors' interests. https://t.co/B4OnDseWFY Authors Guild (@AuthorsGuild) April 18, 2016Naturally, the Authors Guild is furious. Executive director Mary Rasenberger lashed out in a press release:Blinded by the public benefit arguments, the Second Circuits ruling tells us that Google, not authors, deserves to profit from the digitization of their books The price of this short-term public benefit may well be the future vitality of American culture.The vituperative tone may cause eye-rolling in some who find the fair use case to be an obvious one, but Rasenberger does go on to makebroader, more philosophical observations that are food for thought:Authors are already among the most poorly paid workers in America; if tomorrows authors cannot make a living from their work, only the independently wealthy or the subsidized will be able to pursue a career in writing, and Americas intellectual and artistic soul will be impoverished.The denial of review is further proof that were witnessing a vast redistribution of wealth from the creative sector to the tech sector, not only with books, but across the spectrum of the arts.Its fuel for the ongoing argument about whether and how technology enables and damages the creation and distribution of art, be it literary, musical or visual. This decision is, I think, the right one, but there are hard questions that it doesnt answer. Copyright is at best a deeply flawed system as it stands legislated today, though few will argue with the concept of legal protections of creative works.That said, any copyright policy (or lawsuit) that fails to acknowledge the vastly different world those works enter into today versus even a few years ago is bound to crumble in time. And, for that matter, any effort sufficiently advanced of concept will certainly invite legal scrutiny and obstruction. Not every such effort can wage a decade-long legal battle, so alas, many a far-reaching project will be (and has been) smothered at the earliest stages.The Guild will keep fighting and promised to act as watchdog over Google (although the Books project isnt nearly as active as it once was) while pursuing its own solution to the question of mass online distribution and indexing.