Apples own streaming TV service may have been delayed due to stalled negotiations, but a new app launching for Apples newestmedia player will allow youto watch both live and recorded network television programs directly on your TVsbig screen. That is, the makers of a DVR for cord cutters, the Tablo DVR, is soon releasingan app for Apple TV.The Tablo DVR itself is not new. In fact, I tested the device myselfduring my cord-cutting journey in2015. While nowhere near as robust and feature-rich as something like TiVos products, Tablos DVR is priced competitively at $200 and offers a lower (and optional) monthly fee of just $5 in order to access itsTV guide data. Of course, thats something youll need if you want to manage futurerecordings.Tabloalso requires you to attachyour own hard drive  which is either a pro or a con, depending on your viewpoint. The advantage is that you can probably grab something lying around the house and have more control over how much storage is available for your recorded programs. The downside, however, is that you have to buy or acquire another piece of hardware to use the Tablo DVRand it looks a little junky when sitting on your entertainment center shelf to have two devices instead of just one.That being said, the Tablo software for iOS waseasy enough to set up and use, if sometimes a little slow. That was especially true during the initial setup when you hadto format the hard drive, scan for your over-the-air channels, and download the TV guide data. Overall, itfelt like a solution thats a better fit for those who dont mind a little tinkering with their tech toys, and are comfortable installing and configuring their own hardware.To its credit, Tablos software is fairly straightforward when walking you through the setup process, and is simple to navigate once everything is up-and-running. The Apple TV app appears to be designed similarly with a clean user interface, clearnavigation, pluscolorful thumbnail images for the TV show titles.After your Tablo is working, you can use the software to watch live television viayour antenna,and you can record and playback recorded shows. The company,Nuvyyo, which makes the DVR, previously offered apps that let you use Tablo via Roku, Chromecast, Fire TV and Android TV media players as well as mobile devices. At CES, it added the support for Apple TV as well as LGs webOS-based smart TVs.With the Apple TV app in particular, users will be able to watch live TV and recordings, including things that are difficult to access via streaming video services like Netflix or Hulu  like sports and news broadcasts. The app also integrates with Apple TVs voice-enabled remote control, and will let you skip commercials just by asking Siri to jump ahead in the stream.TablosApple TV app will also offer features available on other platforms, like the live TV grid and recordings screen.Unfortunately, the app isnt live as of yet, the company says. Both it and the new LG app will launch sometime this spring. When available, theyll be listed here on Tablos website.Unless another company rolls out a similar solution ahead of this springtime launch date, the Tablo may be thefirst Apple TV app to deliver live television and DVR functionality to the platform. (Technically, Kodi can do this as well, but is still in pre-alpha testing. Channels, meanwhile, supports live TV.)