Taboola  the recommendation platformthat provides 200 billion content suggestionsto 550 million users eachmonth, and analytics to publishers and brands about whats getting people clicking(and what is not)  is today announcing a huge funding round of $117 million on a valuation just shy of $1 billion.Taboola will use the money to turbo charge its business, CEOAdam Singolda tells me, with the three goals being platform enhancements such aspersonalised recommendationsbased on device and place; more international markets, and moreacquisitions. Thisround will help us go to the next level as a company, he says simply.It comes as the Taboola which competes withOutbrain but also potentially Google and Yahoo  remains mum on when or if it may ever go public, andpotential acquisition approaches. An IPO is not something that we rule out, among different options he says. We thought for now this was the right option.If  after big funding rounds for siteslike Buzzfeed, Vox and Mashable, and big exits for content plays like Maker Studios you had any doubt that content was in the ascendant in both thetech and ventureworlds, Taboolas story should help put that idea to rest.Taboola is not giving out a post-money valuation but we understand from reliable sources that it is just shy of $1 billion (and thatreports of a higher valuationare not accurate). The seven year-old company is currently bringing in $200 million in revenues annually and has been profitable for the last six quarters.On its own, the oversubscribed Series Eis nearly three times as much as the company had raised to date ($40 million). But whats just as notable is the list of strategic investors that are backing it. Alongside lead investorFidelity Management and Research Co, also participating areAdvance Publications (Cond Nasts parent), Comcast Ventures, Mr. Carlo De Benedetti (Chairman of the Italian publishers Gruppo Editoriale LEspresso), Groupe Arnault (of LVMH fame), Yahoo! JAPAN (but not Inc.), andanother unnamed investor.Thisspeaks to howTaboola is already being used across major web properties,butalso to how publishers and brands are pinning hope on services that are driving more traffic to their content and their web properties.Thats an increasingly important and challengingtask, given the rise of social media platformslike Twitter and Facebook, which could just as easily serve as replacements for the sites themselves (how many times have you read a headline in your timeline and chose not to click?) as they can drive traffic to them.If youve ever been unable to resist a click on one of those thumbnails at the bottom of an article on the web that leads to articles aboutbotched plastic surgeries, or top 10 pension mistakes, then chances are youve been Taboolad. ComScore last year said that the companywas actually seeing more reach on desktop in the U.S. thanFacebook, Yahoo, and AOL covering86% of users, with USA TODAY, NBC and FOX Sports among the hundreds of sites that use its widgets.Started when Singolda was fresh out of the army in Israel  where more thanhalf of the staffcontinues to work on engineering, with a U.S. HQ inNew York  Taboola was created when Singolda he and his friends decidedit was impossible to find anything good to watch on TV despitedozens of channels.We decided that what was needed was a way for videos to find people, a search engine in reverse, he says.Later that idea was expanded to other kinds of content, and a wider range of services, such as the platform that lets editors push stories for recommendation and monitor how well they do; the ability to A/B test different headlines on their home pages to see how they work; and the ability to recommend not just content but also products and services(by way of a recent acquisition of Perfect Market).The recommendation widget and related analytics are actually free for publishers to use. Where Taboola makes money is in each click that it drives to a subsequent site, and it has developed a kind of AdWords-style marketplace with a CPC rate attached to those clicks.While a lot of the work that Taboola has done to date has focused around how users interact with desktop websites, today the goalposts are shifting.Seven years ago most of the web was driven by search and large screen sizes, he says. Now traffic can come from Facebook, apps, tablets, phones. You have people who read your stories on your site, but also in syndication, or watch a relatedvideo component, he says. Weare investing to map thatcontext better and to bubble up relevant results, as well as actionable data so that publishers can better respond.That will also include adding in more native advertising  also known as sponsored content  and other types of suggested links.The move to make the content suggestionsbetter comes also at a time when potential forays into more advertising recommendations may be challenged: there have beenreports that Taboola and others like Google and Amazon are paying fees to popular service Adblock to get around its advertising blocking technology. No comment on this for now from Singolda.As for the name, Singolda gets asked about it a lot and says it is a spin on tabula rasa.It has interesting meaning that relates to our business where youre trying to solve a mathematical equation and you dont know the variables in advance, so you have to try until you get there, he tells me. Its also sometimes used compared to raising a baby thats constantly growing and changing.