Yes, there are more. Many, many more speakers to be announced for our TechCrunch Disrupt London conference on December 7-8, 2015. The conference will feature an amazing slate of global startups, investors, influential speakers and more. And one area that well be focusing in on is the booming startup city of Lisbon, from which Talkdesk has emerged, and where its disrupting enterprise solutions for businesses.Cristina Fonseca
Cristina Fonseca is Co-founder of Talkdesk. Cristina is a software engineer and entrepreneur. She holds a Masters degree in Telecommunications and Software Engineering from the Technical University of Lisbon and before founding Talkdesk she worked as a researcher and built two other online businesses. Talkdesk is a platform that allows you to you create your call center in minutes and integrate it with a variety of top business tools, including Salesforce, Desk.com and Zendesk. Talkdesk raised more than $24M in the last 2 years from Salesforce Ventures, DFJ, Storm Ventures and 500Startups. Cristina leads the Talkdesk Lisbon office and her areas of focus include engineering, product and knowledge management. Cristina is proud of the role woman play in technology and society today. She is a Global Shaper and part of the Global Agenda Council on Europe, a World Economic Forum initiative.Held on December 7 and 8, (and preceded by a weekend Hackathon), Disrupt is one of the most anticipated technology conferences of the year.Well start each day with panels and one-on-one discussions featuring TechCrunch writers and editors, special guest speakers, leading venture capitalists and entrepreneurs addressing the issues of the day. In the afternoon, we host the Startup Battlefield competition which culminates in six finalists taking the stage at the end of the event for a shot at winning the Disrupt Cup, and taking away a 30,000 check.If you want to attend Disrupt London, grab your tickets here. You can grab Startup Alley tickets here, where you can showcase your startup.And if you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsors@techcrunch.com.In addition to onstage panel sessions and fireside chats, Disrupt will also feature Startup Battlefield and Startup Alley to London.Startup Battlefield competitors pitch their companies live and onstage to innovators, investors and influencers in the tech community. TechCrunch identifies emerging companies to demo and compete for a prize of 30,000 (42,000) and the coveted Disrupt Cup, won previously by Mint.com, Yammer, Fitbit, and Dropbox, among others.The Startup Battlefield will select around 15 brand new startups to launch on stage in front of a panel of top VCs and other founders, coverage on TechCrunch and the winner gets the 30,000 prize. Startup Alley offers another way for early-stage companies to gain exposure with a setup that encourages both exhibiting and networking, and provides high visibility. Roughly 200 startups comprise Startup Alley with around 100 new companies demoing on Monday and 100 demoing on Tuesday.