Tastebud, a company that builds mobile loyalty applications for retailers, has acquired SocialCrunch. Both firms hail from Chicago.SocialCrunch was a graduate of TechStars in 2013, raising$785,000 in its lifetime. The deal was an all-stock transaction.SocialCrunch, for those unfamiliar, collecteddata on consumer sentiment through quizzes, allowing the firm to track trends. One report on the company called its product gamified big data. Tastebud itself is best known for its productStyleSeek, which TechCrunch called a Pandora for E-Commerce at the time of its last capital event. The company has raised a total of $1.75 million to date, making the all-stock deal sensible  given the relatively low capitalization of both firms, cash is likely quite dear.(For whatever it might be worth, former SocialCrunch and now Tastebud denizen Alex Griffiths is someone with whom I have spent some time with in social settings, usually involving a pint or two.)Tastebud has combinedthe most popular part of StyleSeek  itsgame to help you discover your fashion tastes  and the quiz tools of SociaCrunch, creating a mobile, white label-friendly product that it intends to sell to physical stores tohelp themtrack consumers, discover their tastes and offer them on-site deals.Malls, to be specific. I didnt understand it either, so I asked the company why it would go after not merely the physical realm,but the mall space specifically, which we have all read is doing somewhat poorly in recent years. Amazon, and all that.According to Tastebud, the physical retail space is perhaps more healthy than you would think. The lesser end of the mall world is indeed having issues, the company confirmed, but the more affluent malls aredoing just fine.The company is currently working with a mall in Nebraska. It intends to expand to other locations this year, with increasing tempo. Given that I am in malls roughly never, I asked the company for data about how its product works. According to Tastebud, one time-sensitive offer had a conversion rate of 36 percent, which meant that in-mall shoppers that received the offer literally went to the store and bought something. Tastebud claims that it accumulated more than $5 million in coupon redemptions in its first half year at the Nebraska location.The two questions that Tastebud faces now is when it will seek additional capital, and how quickly it can grow its customer base. It seems reasonable to think that the sales process of landing a large mall isnt short, so how fast the firm can ramp up its sales team will be interesting to watch. And sales isnt cheap, bringing us back to the first question.For now, two Chicago firms have come together to bring mobile apps to old-school malls. Who wants to guess whichventure firm they are going to raise from?IMAGE BY FLICKR USER PEDDHAPATI.UNDERCC BY 2.0LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN CROPPED)