If there was a neat labelfor startups whose raison dtreis to take the strain out of dealing withother startup services then Taskpipeswould be wearing that badge proudly on its lapel.The YC-backed, U.K. founded b2b startupis attacking what it says is agrowing data-management problem for businesses created bythe proliferation and adoption of SaaS platforms. So, in other words, those shiny, cloud-based platforms whichpromise to streamline your business processes by taking variousdata-processing tasks off your handsareactually introducing a new headacheby fragmenting your data acrossmultiple silos.That means businesses using multiple SaaS platforms are havingto engage in manual data-wrangling when theyneed to work across these different data buckets, or pull data-setsinto other pieces of software for processing. ItsthisSaaS-generated data-processing headache that Taskpipes has seized on asanother business opportunity.Its solution, another SaaS platform (obviously), makes it easier for business to grab data from these various third party repositories and set up rules to perform whateverdata processing operations they need done. So yes, its SaaS platforms all the way down.Taskpipes is an online platform that allows you to automate these repetitive and regular time-consuming tasks that people do to manipulate data, to basically connect different platforms together, co-founderFraser Atkins tells TechCrunch.It automates repetitive data processing tasks that people normally do in Excel. Maybe you have a load of data stuck in your ecommerce platform and the only way you can get that into you accounting software is by downloading a raw CSV data, dumping it into Excel, performing a filter to remove a load of data you dont want, then sorting the data, reformatting the columns to then upload it into your accounting software.The number of SaaS platforms is just exploding, he adds. Its been totally ridiculous recently. And although each SaaS platform makes that specific aspect of your business more powerful it then means whereas before you ran everything through a few spreadsheets, now you have your data in all these different places.When you download the data from one of these platforms and you want to put it into the other one the datas obviously not compatible.Isnt it a bit hard to automate the bespoke manual piecesof data processing that businesses need to do to tie up their usage ofvarious SaaS platforms?Atkins saysnot, given that the series of steps businesses are performing to get one set of data into a compatible format for processing elsewhere are always the same  and can therefore be defined as processing rules in Taskpipes to be run automatically after youve set them up once (thereby cutting out tedious and time-consuming manual repetition). So itspitch to businesses is time- and efficiency-savings.Isnt this much like macros in Excel? It is,concedesAtkins. But Taskpipes is targeting its SaaS platform at people who arent capable of writing VBA macros or indeed Python scripts  offering a simple interface that even non-Excel whiz kidsin the business should be able toget to grips with.Were like the central node in this network of all your different data. Because whereas maybe five years ago youd have most of your data in an Excel spreadsheet, maybe a couple of SQL databases, now people have their data across all these different third party platforms so how do I get my data from Mixpanel into Salesforce without having to either spend ages writing the integration code or having to do it manually every single day through Excel.Its also aiming to improve on macros by offering more granular controls.The problem that macros present is that theyre really opaque, theyre really hard to edit afterwards, and they also cant do really cool things  you couldnt set a macro up very easily to run every single day, he adds. You couldnt integrate it with these different platform and so we feel that we bring a lot more functionality than a lot of the existing solutions which people are basically hacking through Excel at the moment.The Taskpipes beta was launched around seven weeks ago, and thus far it has a handful of paying customers across a range of industries. It currently supports any platform that can export data to CSV format. But next up its planning to expand to add integrations withthird party platform APIs so it can fully automate pulling data down, excising the need for humansto upload the raw data. So cutting out another step.Where we want to move with this, and the next stage we see in product development, is actually providing integrations  so we automatically pull your data from Salesforce, we pull your data from your Shopify store and we automatically upload it to your accounting software, to your Mixpanel account  so that getting data from one platform to another is no longer a hassle, he says.We sometimes explain the concept to people and they come back to us and say oh, thats basically like IFTTT for data processing isnt it?. Thats a nice way of putting it, he adds.On the competitor front,Atkins names elastic.io, which self bills as integration platform as a service  which is presumably one label for this type of layered service thatmanages other services. The difference between elastic.io andTaskpipes is the latter isaiming its platformat people with no technical background. We want to make this completely accessible because the people who are doing this manually at the moment are the people who are the non-technical people. So they are the people were targeting, says Atkins.Funding wise, Taskpipes has pulled in around $140,000 so far, viaYC and also a small portion of that seed comingfrom the U.K.-based Entrepreneur First accelerator program which it also went through. The team is presenting at YCs Winter demo day this month, and will be looking to raise more funding to build out those API integrations and scale up itsSaaS for managing SaaS use.