Teabox, an India-based company that sells tea online to a global audience, has brewedup a fresh $6 million funding round to grow its business in key overseas markets.The company raised a $1 million seed round from Accel last March. JAFCO Asia lead this Series A round, with participation from Accel and new investorsKeystoneGroup and Dragoneer Investment Group.To refresh those who missed the seed round, just like a good cuppa, Teabox is an online store that sells tea to customers in 75 countries. Itworks directly with over 200 plantations in India and Nepal, withits own storage facilities near to plantations. It handles distribution, supply, storage and logistics itself, thats anarrangement that drasticallyspeeds up thetime taken for tea to reachcustomers. Traditionally the processtakes months given the long chain of players involved in picking, sampling selling, stocking etc. Teabox claimsitstime between order and delivery is a week or less.Teabox was founded in 2012 by Kaushal Dugar, whose family hasbeenin the tea industry for generations. Returning home from a stint with KPMG in Singapore,Dugar spent18 months at a tea export firm to familiarize himself withthe logistics behind the drinkhe loves, before starting the company.It began life inSiliguri in North East India, but today Teabox has an office in Bangalore and a fulfillment center in Russia, which become a key market early on.Dugar told TechCrunch in an interview that his intent is to replicate that model and opencenters inChina, Japan, and Korea.That, he said, will enable delivery to customers there within three to five days of their order, and provide better, localized customer support.Teabox is also considering an office in the U.S.. The location of that is still up for discussion  Chicago, Seattle and San Francisco are the early frontrunners  but the goalis to build a brand and tech platform to better servicethe American market.The wheels are already in motion, and an exec from a top coffee brand in the U.S. has been lured to lead Teaboxs efforts Stateside.We want to leverage the internet to build the worlds first vertically integrated tea e-commerce service, Dugar said. [This funding round will] lets usgo to the next level; build a disruptive team, target new markets and build a global brand.Its an audacious target, to be sure.Teabox didntdisclose user numbers, but itclaimed its orders have grown 10x over the past year with 20 million cups (around 40,000 kg) shipped to date. Last year, that figure was at 5 million cups.Already there are elements required to stand out.Its direct access to plantations  and thus lack of middle men in its processes  gives Teabox impressive margins on the business side of things. Dugar didnt provide specific financial figures, but did say the marginsarein the higher double digits, more than 50 percent  thats highenough to make Teabox the most profitable e-commerce business in India, he claimed. (An impressive claim given the rate in which Flipkart and Snapdeal are burning through cash.)Dugar said the business could be made profitable tomorrow, if needed, but it is takingfunding toscale more aggressively and vie for a larger slice of the global tea business, which he roughly estimated to beworth$40-60billion per year.Interestingly,Robert M. Bass, President of Keystone, first found out about Teabox by becominga customer, and the startups other investors are equally as bullish.Teaboxsdisruptive business model is highly scalable and allows complete control of the customerexperience, said JAFCOsSupriya Singh.While he didnt divulge Teaboxs secret sauce, I was curious to know the optimal time for consuming tea. Dugar revealedthat all Teabox leaves are keptinside one ofits cold storage facilities within 48 hours of being picked from the plantation. That, he said, keeps themasfresh six months down the road as it would be the next day.I was hoping for a more precise answer that will shape my tea drinking habits,but that set-up works out nicely forTeabox customers, who are getting afresher product for their money. Andwithout being constrained to whatever is stacked on their local supermarkets shelves.