Theres no shortage of products purportingto help teach kids coding these days, whether itsKanos DIY computer kit, orthe Robot Turtles board game, or any one of the many programmable robots. Toys with a STEM twistthat aim to keep kids tinkering and learning indoors are all the rage.U.K. startupNaturebytesis bringinga different emphasis to this tech-plus-education space. Its aimingto combine hackable technologywith a mission to sparkkids curiosityinthe greatoutdoors. And givenkids dictionaries have this year beenjettisoning nature-related words such asacorn and buttercup, andadding in tech terms like broadband and cut and paste, there are perhapssignstechnology risksbecoming a little all consuming for digital natives.Naturebyteshasjust kicked off a Kickstarter for a Raspberry Pi-powered camera trap kit for capturing wildlife photos. The idea is to inspire kids about what electronics and coding can do whilealso giving them an appetite for learning about and experiencing nature. Putting technology outdoors might also be a way to get kids interested who might otherwise prefer running around outdoors. Add to that,embedding technology in the natural environment is something were going to see more of, with the rise ofthe Internet of Things.The weatherproof camera trap kit is designed to survive the elements. It houses aRaspberry Pi Model A microprocessor (other more powerful Pis can also be used), battery pack, Pi camand aninfrared sensor  a set up thatenables motion-sensitive photo (and video) capture of any passing wildlife. The camera comes in kit form so kids get to put it all together and learn along the way. Theres also scope for expanding functionality  for instance the kit can be upgraded with a Wi-Fi link to automatically upload wildlifesnaps.As well as crowdfunding thesehardware kits, Naturebytes is intendingto builda web platformwhereusers canshare images theyve captured with the camera, and get involved with citizen science projects. Kits start at 45 for more advanced makers who already have a Pi and Pi cam and want to 3D print the camera casing themselves. Stepping up to85 for a kit that has everything except the Pi included, or95 for all the bits and bobs.At the time of writing the team has raisedmore than10 per cent of their crowdfunding target, with a month left on their campaign clock. So not bad going. Theyre targeting around$45,000 in total pledgesin orderto produce and ship their first batch of kits  with an estimated shipping schedule of December.