TechCrunch is attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland to look at how technology is affecting the worlds economies. Handily, WEF has themed this years event The 4th Industrial revolution which is right in our TechCrunch ballpark. Plus, well be holding a tech reception there, details below.You can register here to keep up to date with what TechCrunch will be doing there. We will have an incredible venue, the English Church of St. Luke (Freie Evangelische Gemeinde Davos, right here) located right by the conference centre, enabling us to grab interviews with a passing politicians or tech moguls. Well have a cafe inside The Sanctuary (partnered with a startup out of Europe/SF, Tradeshift) and well also be holding a reception for the tech community featuring fireside interviews and discussions. That, and a daily programme of video interviews during the time were there. Got questions about TechCrunch at Davos? You can also use me as an initial point of contact on mike@techcrunch.com.The tech reception and interview series will take place on Wednesday, January 20th inDavos (RSVPhere). It will take place at the English Church of St. Luke (Freie Evangelische Gemeinde Davos, right here) located right by the conference centre, from 6-8pm.The interview series will cover a number of topics, from the future of work, security and the state of global tech entrepreneurship.Amongst the speakers and interviews while in Davos  more are due to be announced  will be:Jimmy Wales
Co-Founder @ Wikipedia
Jimmy Wales is a U.S. Internet entrepreneur, wiki pioneer, and technology visionary, who is best known as the Founder of Wikipedia, an international collaborative free content encyclopedia on the Internet, and the Wikimedia Foundation. He is co-founder of Wikia, a privately owned free web hosting service he set up in 2004. Wales began advising the British government on potential open access initiatives in 2012. The goal of the project was to make government-funded research available to taxpayers at no cost. In addition to his paid positions, Wales serves on the advisory boards of a number of academic foundations and research centers.Bill Conner
President, CEO @ Silent Circle
Bill Conner is President and CEO of Silent Circle. Conner served as the President and CEO of Entrust for over 12 years, and has held leadership positions as Chairman of Entrusts Board of Directors, Nortels first CMO and President of Enterprise Data Networks and Enterprise Networks and e-Business Solutions. His career spans over 30 years across numerous high-tech industries, and he has received the Tech Titan Corporate CEO of the Year award, US November Top 100 award, CMO of the Year, and Telly Award.Will Marshall
Co-Founder and CEO @ Planet Labs
Will Marshall is the Co-Founder and CEO of Planet Labs. He leads the overall company strategy and direction. Prior to Planet Labs, Will was a Scientist at NASA/USRA where he was Deputy Systems Engineer on lunar orbiter mission LADEE, a Science Team member for the lunar impactor mission LCROSS, served as Co-Principal Investigator on PhoneSat, and was the technical lead on research projects in space debris remediation. Will received his Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Oxford and his Masters in Physics with Space Science and Technology from the University of Leicester. Will was a Postdoctoral Fellow at George Washington University and Harvard.