For human lip readers, context is key in deciphering words stripped of the full nuance of theiraudio cues.But a technology model for lip-reading developed at the University of East Anglia in the UK has been shownto be able to interpret mouthed words with a greater degree of accuracy than human lip readers, thanks to the application of machine learning tech to classify the visual aspect of sounds. And the kicker is the algorithmdoesnt need to know the context of whatyoure discussingto be able to identify the words youre using.While the model remainsa piece ofresearch at this stage, there are scores of potential applications for technology that could automagically transformvisual cues into accurate speech whether itshelping people who haveaudio impairments, orenhancing audio-less security video footage with additional speech data  or even to try to figure out exactly what charged word one footballer spat at anotherinthe heat of amatchSuch a tech could also be appliedas a fallback for poor audio quality on a mobile or video call. Or for automating subtitles. Or even perhaps to power afront-facing camera-based mobile voice assistant whichyou wouldnt actually have to speak to but could just discreetly mouth commands at (how cool would that be?). Safe to say, the list of applications-in-waiting for machine powered lip-reading is as long as the dictionary is deep. So theres bags of future potential if only researchers can deliver the goods.The UAE teambehind thisnew machine learning trainingmodel for lip reading have been looking purely at visual inputs  so training their model on the shape of the mouth as certainsoundsare spoken, without any audio input cues at all.Were looking at visual cues and saying how do they vary? We know they vary for different people. How are they using them? Whats the differences? And can we actually use that knowledge in this particular training method for our model? And we can, saysDr Helen Bear who created the visual speech recognition tech model as part of her PhD, along withProf Richard Harvey of UEAs School of Computing Sciences.The idea behind a machine that can lip read is that the machine itself has got no emotions, it doesnt mind if it gets it right or wrong  its just trying to learn. So in the paper Ive been showing how we can use those visual confusions to make better phoneme classifiers. So its a new training method, she adds.Dr Bearnotes that a lot of current research in the lip reading field islooking both at audio and visual cues to try to improve the accuracy of machine lip reading. So the UEA model stands out on merit of focusing solely onvisual speech to try toboostmachine-powered lip reading.We were effectively pretending that that audio signal is not there at all, she says. The idea being you can either have a lip-reading only system or it could be used in an audio-visual system that maybe one day hopefully it would be nice if it could jump in, do the visual signals only until the audio comes back in, for example, if youre on a Skype call and the audio goes out but you can still see somebody.The core challenge for lip reading techniques in general is there are  at least to the human eye fewer visual cues than there are acoustic audio sounds humans make.Examples of sounds with confusingly similar shapes when seen on the lips are/p/, /b/, and /m/  all of which typically cause difficulties forhuman lip readers.However UEAs visual speech model isable to more accuratelydistinguish between these visually similar lipshapes.It turns out there are some visual distinctions between/p/, /b/, and /m/ but its not something that human lip readers have been able to achieve, saysDr Bear. But with a machine we are showing that those distinctions are there, they do exist and our recognizers are much better at doing it.If I was to try and build a classifier to recognize just the /p/ sound what I would have done is its first trained on all the sounds that look the same. What we then do is we then refine that training by doing some more iterations of training which are only on the /p/ sound, she says, discussing the training technique.Were actually learning and understanding what all these visual units mean and why they differ between people and weve used that knowledge in order to change the conventional lip reading system and make it better. It is a significant step forward, she adds.Much better is still relative  with the accuracy level for lip reading remaining low. Accuracy at the word level for the model standsat between 10 and 20 per cent (i.e. for correctly identifying a word), according to Dr Bear  albeit she stressesthats still much higher than guessing.Over a sentenceit of course becomes easier to distinguish sense from anentire transcript, she adds.In all honesty were not 100 per cent sure [why it works], she tells TechCrunch. We just know that with our particular classifiers if we train them in the right way, with the right data, theyre not biased towards anything.The complexity is that understanding the science of why visual speech is as complex as it is is a much harder question than can we use machine learning to get better results. We know that machine learning is evolving all the time, and were getting different types of classifiers But actually asking the hard questions of what it is theyre learning and how visual speech is and how much it varies and how were going to control all those variables, those are the harder questions.Asked to hazard a guess on how far out the research might be from being usefully commercialized in anapplication, shejokes:If I worked for Google probably a lot sooner!, before adding that any commercialization is likely to be a fair few years away yet.Weve still go things we need to learn and understand, she says, characterizing the researchas just one piece of an interlocking series of linguistic models that will be needed enablemachines to adroitly and accurately pull speech data from the twists and turns of human lips.Its also worth noting that the UEA model was also solely focused on the English language. So the scope of the challenge ahead to deliver on the promise oflip-reading powered applicationsis not to be underestimated.Could the UEAmodelbe combined with other predictive linguistic techniques  perhaps machine learning based next-word prediction technologies  in order to further enhance lip-reading capabilities?Thats exactly what I love to be able to do, she says. To have something that robust would be amazing but thats going to take quite a bit more work as yet. Its not going to be going to market any time soon.Dr Bearis presenting theresearch findings at the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing in Shanghai thisFriday when her paper Decoding visemes: Improving machine lip-reading  will also be published.The research was part of a three-year project, supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.