Next week is a big one for TechCrunch around the world. Were celebrating our 10th anniversaryand holding our TechCrunch Shanghai international event with TechNode, our China partner.This is our second time in the Paris of the East (check out coverage of our 2013 event here). Well be at the Westbund Art Center, Shanghaion June 8th and 9th.Chinese tech innovation is getting increasingly harder to ignore. Many people have heard about Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu, Xiaomi, and the hardware manufacturing hub of Shenzhen, but there are still a lot of up-and-coming tech companies that need exposure.This years theme is the Internet of Things and our speakers will delve into topics like robotics, 3D printing, mobile gaming, design, and how Chinas startups can go global.Silicon Valley and Israel are both driving forces for innovation in the global tech market, and we are happy to have the U.S. and Israeli Consul Generals on stage to share their views on how Chinese startups can make their mark.Top Chinese venture capitalists, including Sequoia China, IDG, Gobi, Lightspeed, GGV, Morningside, DCM, and GSR, will join us on stage to share market insights. Executives from BMW, Audi and Citroen will sit together to discuss the development of smart cars.Chinese superstars like WeChat, DJI, LeTV, Tuniu, and PPTV are also on the speaker roster, along with rising startups like Ele.me, Dayima, and Ximalaya.Along with keynotes and panels by tech leaders, our Startup Alley will host more than 150 companies.Not enough time? No problem. Each afternoon, ten hand-selected startups will hold a pitch-off and let audience members get a closer look at their products and gadgets. Furthermore, three parallel sessions by Gobi Partners, Google and Taobao will focus on entrepreneurship, Chinese companies expanding globally, and crowd-funding.For early stage startups, weve introduced a Dating-with-VC session for both afternoons, with more than sixty VCs waiting to talk to promising companies.Check out the full agenda in English here. You can get tickets here.See you next Monday!