Textio CEO Kieran Snyder took a quantitative approach to how language worked in her linguistics studies. Andwhen she and her co-founder Jensen Harris were leaving Microsoft to start a new company, it was only natural that it would be centered around language in some way.Thats how Textio, a startup that analyzes text for how well words and phrases perform in certain scenarios, was born. The company today said itraised $8 million in a financing round led by Emergence Capital.Cowboy Ventures, Bloomberg Beta, and Upside Partnership also participated in the financing round.We had this premise that word processing in text hadnt been disrupted in a while, from command line to GUI, CEOKieran Snyder said. We had the internet come along, it was about social and sharing, and we think that AI and the set of related technologiesis the next big disruptor of text. If you know the performance of a document before its ever published then you can fix it before its published.Textios first tool looks at talent acquisition documents  like job postings  to determine how well they will perform among candidates. Certain words and layouts attract more candidates than others, Snyder found, and those predictive analytics are baked into the service. For example, Textio shows that job postings with bullet points tend to perform better than job postings without them.Right now its used for talent acquisition documents, but its pretty easy to see that the technology can be applied to documents that include common phrases  such as email, resumes, or other kinds of messages. If the technology works, it can theoretically begin building up scores for those kinds of documents, which is likely what attracted investors to the product and the team.Another reason it might be so valuable to investors? Its customers. Already Textio is being used by companies like Twitter, Atlassian, Starbucks, Square and Microsoft. Natural Language Processing technology has very broad applications if done right, which makesit an attractive bet for many investors.Textio recognizes more than 60,000 phrases with its predictive technology, Snyder said, and that data set is changing constantly as it continues to operate. It looks at how words are put together  such as how verb dense a phrase is  and at other syntax-related properties the document may have. All that put together results in a score for the document, based on how likely it is to succeed inwhatever the writer set out to do.Given whos likely using Textio, its important that it feels easy to use  hence the highlighting and dropdown boxes rather than readouts. Snyder said, at its core, Textio cant feel like a statistics tool, and thats probably because the kinds of people using it might not always be NLP experts.Of course, there are potential competitors in the space when it comes to natural language processing. There are tools like IBM Watson that can analyze text and, in theory, pull off a similar result. But Snyder says Textios results will be better because they are content-specific  like in the case of talent-acquisition documents.