In early 2011, Skype bought a mobile video startup called Qik, which had developed an app that let mobile users record and stream videos in real-time which others could be alerted to and then view. If that description sounds similar to the newly hot live-streaming apps Meerkat and Periscope, its because the overall concept introduced then is not all that far off from whats happening today on these new platforms. But whats different this time around are these apps potential to reach the mainstream.Welcome to the era of the live stream.When Qik was acquired, the company had grown its user base to 5 million  not a bad showing in the early days of mobile, where still apps catered to a largely more technical crowd and hadnt yet found their ways in the hands of grandmas and teenagers and everyone in between. As with todays live-streaming apps, Qik offered a way for users to instantly share their world with others, but like many things that bubble up in this industry, it was a concept that arrived too soon.Qik faced a number of challenges during its day, not only in growing its user base, but it also had to overcome technical hurdles, as well. For example, Apple even once blocked all apps that were doing live video recording, if you can believe that, because they initially had to take advantage of a restricted screen capture API in order to function. Meanwhile, the mobile networks themselves were unprepared for the massive use of data that the iPhone was delivering, which sometimes led to the degradation of the shared streams.Technology advances have solved most of the challenges with regardto the roadblocks involved with recording and sharing live video with a touch of a button. Weve seen the results already, as people raised their phones during events like the Occupy Protests or Arab Spring.But these new live-streaming services push things forward yet again.And they wont only succeed because the tech now works better.More importantly, our cultural mindset has changed to the point where were ready to embrace this sort of public performance. Meanwhile,as viewers, thesmartphones ubiquity means we all have an easy way to tap into these ongoing streams from anywhere.Periscope screenshot of the NYC fire. Makes you want to be long $GSAT now that everyone is a broadcaster. pic.twitter.com/Icg519uUJ7 Barbarian Capital  (@BarbarianCap) March 26, 2015To theformer point, social media has trainedus over the yearsto not be able to see something of interest without feeling motivated to share it.Whether thats a beautiful sunset or a raging fire, like the one that ravaged a building in New York on Periscopes launch day, many peoplesfirst instinct is to whip out their smartphone. Its not just the Facebook and Instagram likes, or the tweets and retweets that have led to this psychological reconditioning, though theyve certainly contributed to this behavior. Its that these apps have made us feel less alone in the world  by sharing our lives we feel better connected to others. And some would argue that seeking connection is a cornerstone of the human condition.One could also argue that the motivation can turnchilling at times  we pull out our phones and record when we should be offering help. We broadcast what we see as bystanders, cameras pointed outward, whileentirely self-focused in the process. Live streamings move to become a mainstream activity could make that problem worse than it is today, of course, and we as a society should remain vigilant to combat our narcissistic tendencies.But thepotential for these new apps, Periscope and Meerkat and others like them, goes beyond our immediate desire to record and share. We have other means for that, after all, including apps like YouTube, Vine, or Instagram, for example, as well as Twitter itself and Facebook.With live streaming, theres also a sense of being able to pick up a phone to instantly fight back against the existing establishments, whether thats the brutality and militarization of the police, or even just the traditional news outlets who these days turn tragic events into sensationalized stories. Theirneed to provide 24/7 coverage has turned once trustednews sourcesinto platforms for punditry, talking heads and misinformation.The younger generation, especially, is poised to embrace alternative means of accessing the newsin ways that stretch far beyond simply tuning into the evening broadcast. Live streaming is but one example. Theyre reading stories in their social feeds  digesting content told in bite-sized format via services like NowThisNews or Snapchat Discover. And the newly announced HBO-VICE deal, which will bring a daily news cast to HBOs channel (which is also now breaking free of its ties to cable TV), is all about the destruction of the anchor desk.Were ready for the new news, and thats the promise that Periscope, Meerkat and whatever else comes next delivers. News told as first-hand streams: this is what Im seeing, you can see it too. Andwith the traditional news journalist removed from the action. Its the next logical step beyond the tweet, or the tweeted photo. Its the hundreds of potential cameras live on the scene beforethe media truck arrives. Its the citizens right to recordmaterialized.That said, todaysplatforms are far from perfect as it stands now. Theres no good way to find the important streams among those which feature someone recording their lunch  Twitters often-cited reputation for banality and self-involvement again rearing its ugly head. The streams on Meerkat offer no replay button. You cant tweet links to streams. Periscopes web view only points people to an app download. You cant search streams by keyword. Streams dont have their own trends section to help you find whats catching flame. Push notifications are overwhelming and impossible.In other words, while the live-streaming apps of the earlier era had to fight to make their services work while facingoften-hardware based technological challenges, todays apps have to make their systems work at the software level. They need better user interfaces, expanded but simplified feature sets, and their content needs to be accessible from any platform, both as the live stream it began as, and the recorded video that came after.These technical and design challenges, however, are all that stand in the way of live streaming being used onlyby the early adopter, highly mobile crowd, and being amainstream activity, as commonplace as a status update and just as simple to produce. And these days, change happens quickly.