The League, the dating startup thats maybe-maybe-not elitist, is launching version 2.0 in a new city  Los Angeles.Founder and CEO Amanda Bradford said The League has already rolled out the updated app to users in its existing markets, New York and San Francisco, without much fanfare. Today, however, marks the official launch, as well as theadditionof its first city in nearly a year.The League is best-known for the fact that users are screened before they can join (Bradford told me there are currently 100,000 people on the waitlist), leading to the aforementioned charges of elitism.The screening process is still part of the app, but whats new is a focus on events. Members will now be able to create interest groups with group chat and also organize events  for example, Bradford suggested they could create running groups or a womens wine circle.She added that while The League has organized events of its own, they werent really integrated into the app experience. Plus, theyremuch more scalable now that the members can do the organizing.Not that the new emphasis is supposed to eliminate dating or romance. It just means those connections can form around interests rather than at a giant bar meetup or on an awkward coffee date. The overall goal, Bradford said, is to turn The League into a members-only club, albeit one with a killer singles scene.But lets go back to Bradfords bigger vision. In a blog post last fall, she wrote that her goals had less to do with elitism and more with creating a community that empowers ambitious women. (At the time, she blamed the media for distorting that message, though in our interview she also acknowledged that calling your app The League kind of invites those assumptions.)When I asked her about the screening process, she said that the first step is just looking at Facebook and LinkedIn to make sure its not a spam account. She compared the process to college admissions  not in the sense that its limited to people who attended a prestigious university, but in the sense that she wants to create a diverse community.This isnt the rich kid snobby app, she added. This is about bringing together people that are progressively minded. I think changing the branding, changing our design, our look and feel a little bit, changing app to emphasize the community aspect, underlies our message there.Its currently free to join The League, andBradford said there will always be a free version, but her eventual goal is to also charge a monthly membership fee.