The Dislike button has long been the most requested feature from Facebook users. So when Mark Zuckerberg today said in a public Q&A that the company was working on a way to show empathy for victims of tragedies and other things that are inappropriate to Like, news outlets around the world sprung into action saying the masses would soon get their wish.But dont hold your breath for a button called Dislike. Zuck explicitly said thats not what Facebook is building.Heres the video of his response to requests for a Dislike button. At the bottom of this post youll find the full transcript of this answer.What exactly did Zuck say?I think people have asked about the Dislike button for many yearstoday is the day where I actually get to say that were working on it, and are very close to shipping a test of it.We didnt want to just build a Dislike button because we dont want to turn Facebook into a forum where people are voting up or down on peoples posts. That doesnt seem like the kind of community we want to create.People arent looking for an ability to downvote other peoples posts. What they really want is to be able to express empathy.Not every moment is a good moment, right? And if you are sharing something that is sad, whether its something in current events like the refugee crisis that touches you or if a family member passedaway, then it might not feel comfortable to Like that post.But your friends and people want to be able to express that they understand and that they relate to you.Really, this makes total sense. If Facebook built a Dislike button, it would just cause confusion. If I share a post about victims of a natural disaster, and you Dislike it, does that mean you Dislike that the tragedy happened? That you Dislike the victims? That you Dislike that I posted it? Its extraordinarily ambiguous in a way that directly conflicts with how Facebook builds products.What makes much more sense is a button that conveys that you empathize or sympathize with a posts author and/or those affected by the tough situation.In fact, Facebook already has a version of this called Recommend. Websites can use it instead of the Like button to help people share stories that are tragic. But now Facebook is building something new to express condolences.Whatever wording Facebook picks, it has to be widely understandable, translateable across languages, succinct and unambiguous.One possibility for the name of the button could be Sorry or something of that nature. A word that when you read it, you know the sender understands the sadness of a story and feels for you and the victims.To implement this, Facebook might give people posting stories the option to replace the Like button with this empathy button, or add one beside it. Facebook could potentially recommend the presence of the empathy button depending on the content of your post. For example, if it detected that what youre saying is sad because you included the terms died, passed away, hurt, fired or broke up, or that youre linking to a news story flagged as tragic.This way, if you share something sad, people dont have to be apprehensive about Liking it because they might give the wrong impression. This apprehension can fool Facebooks News Feed sorting algorithm into thinking a post isnt interesting. An empathy button will clue the algorithm in to when a post isnt Likeable, but its still important for people to see.Heres Mark Zuckerbergs full response to the request for a dislike button:You know, I think people have asked about the Dislike button for many years and probably hundreds of people have asked about this. Today is a special day because today is the day where I actually get to say that were working on it, and are very close to shipping a test of it.You know, it took us awhile to get here. Because you know, we didnt want to just build a Dislike button because we dont want to turn Facebook into a forum where people are voting up or down on peoples posts. That doesnt seem like the kind of community we want to create. You dont want to go through the process of sharing some moment thats important to you in your day and then have someone down vote it. That isnt what were here to build in the world.But over the years of people asking for this, what weve kind of come to understand is that people arent looking an ability to downvote other peoples posts. What they really want is to be able to express empathy.Not every moment is a good moment, right? And if you are sharing something that is sad, whether its something in current events like the refugee crisis that touches you or if a family member past away, then it might not feel comfortable to Like that post. But your friends and people want to be able to express that they understand and that they relate to you.So I do think that its important to give people more options than just Like as a quick way to emote and share what theyre feeling on a post, so weve been working on this for awhile. Its surprisingly complicated to make an interaction that you want to be that simple. But we have an idea that we think were going to be ready to test soon, and depending on how that does, well roll it out more broadly.But thank you for all the feedback on this over the years. I think weve finally heard you and were working on this and hopefully we will deliver something that meets the needs of our community