Another day, another Tweetstorm by Chris Sacca about Twitters CEO situation. His tune is the same, with the volume turned up ever so slightly. Most importantly, the signal hes sending out is very similar to an S.O.S.Since July 1st, Twitters interim CEO has been Jack Dorsey, and the chatter around who would be the next permanent CEO, succeeding Dick Costolo, has been nonstop. The chatter is fair because the situation is odd: Co-Founder and former CEO returns as interim CEO while being the CEO of another company.Im sure that if one of the board members came out of the board membery room they sit in once in a while, theyd say Theres a process and were going through that process. But were talking about a company and product that is built on real-time and freely flowing information. Basically, the opposite of whatever process is happening right now behind closed doors. Im sure that both outside and inside candidates have been interviewed until the cows come home, but no decision has been made. And if you think its dragging on, how the hell do you think the most important people, the employees, feel about it?I admire the Twitter employees who have been working so hard despite that looming uncertainty. Chris Sacca (@sacca) September 11, 2015No matter how much support Dorsey gets because of his co-founder status, theres still an interim at the beginning of his title. Interim is the opposite of permanent. Permanent breeds confidence and cuts down on distractions. You get the picture.What happens when employeesare distracted and the future is uncertain? They start spending more and more time wondering when itll be less distracting and more certain. The new ideas they have and the excitement about what the company is doing slows down. Theres a bit more stress. While theyre thinking about all of that, the phone is ringing off the hook and the emails are piling up in the inbox. Who are they from? Recruiters. Probably the same recruiters that some of the employees have fought off before with Hey, no thanks, Im in a great spot right now.The pitch of Hey, you dont have a CEO right now and the stock isnt doing so hot starts sounding more and more like how employees feel. Yeah, theyre right. What if we never bounce back? A few streets over at Uber, recruiters for all types of positions are lighting up those phones and inboxes. One person familiar with the situation calls it a scraping of talent from Twitter. Thats not good.So sure, theres a process. And that process is clearly none of the medias business or Twitters users business, or even their cowboy investors business. But its sure as hell those valued employees business. And even the best companies in the world at internal communications lose pockets of great people because of internal chatter, rumors and frustration. Thats exactly whats happening right now, multiple people familiar with the company have told me.Now sure, hiring a permanent CEO isnt going to fix all of Twitters problems. Even if they do keep Dorsey on full time, there will be questions about also running Square, or a subtle reminder of something he didnt do correctly during his first tour of dutybut its a start. It can help Twitter triage any damage this whole thing has caused.Yes Twitter is different than most companies and Twitter employees are different than most employees, but were all human. Eventually people just get tired of not knowing what they feel like they should know. And they leave. Or worse, never come in the first place.We dont know half the story of who has left the nest  Im sure theres tons of engineering and marketing talent that dont make headlines. But that damage causes corrosion and that corrosion kills execution.Its the exact opposite of whats going on at Facebook, which is executing at a super high level, attracting talent, hiring executives that have in the past or could in the future run their own company. Google even took a step back with its Alphabet approach to make sure that it keeps its growing talent pool full of great minds.Facebook is a well-oiled machine and Twitter is rumored to be chasing itspublishing strategy. Wouldnt an Uber recruiter email look good to you right now if you were the latter?