
Jake Rozmaryn is the CEO of Eco Branding and Conference Director for the Midwest Solar Expo and Energy Storage Symposium.Who could imagine being wowed by a garbage can?In our age of technological whiz-bang, not much floors us anymore. But I confess, I couldnt stop thinking about the lowly garbage can.Embedded with smart sensors, it alerts city workers when its ready to be emptied, which slashes fuel costs and avoids unnecessary garbage pickups. That may not sound so impressive  at least compared to driverless cars or sending regular folk into space  but when the dumbest of items gains intelligence, we need to pay attention.We are entering a phase in the cleantech revolution where we are reaping efficiency value from even the most mundaneitems.The garbage app reduces energy costs by 50% to 60%. Thats not pie-in-the-sky  those are real savings for real cities that can make them even more livable and enjoyable for residents, says Tim Wolf, Global Director of Marketing for Smart Grid Solutions at Itron.Call it Cleantech 3.0 or Energy Democracy, this new iteration takes us beyond solar energy and the early technologies that kicked off the clean energy revolution.Now bits and bytes are infiltrating everyday objects, allowing them to talk to each other and make smart energy decisions. Dorothy, were not in Kansas anymore  or at least its wind farms.Why is renewable energy now old school? Creditthe Internet of Things, or IoT. Green is still good, but digitally connected green is even better.IoT is a network of physical objects  devices, machinery, vehicles, buildings and other items  embedded with electronics, software and sensors that enable these objects to collect and exchange data.Connecting our disparate things  and giving them intelligence creates autonomous systems that are convenient and user-friendly in ways that can drastically improve home and work environments as in the garbage can that can signal to city trash collectors.In the energy arena, IoT brings together all kinds of things to create smart networks, such as hot water heaters, home thermostats, solar panels and microgrids. These networkscan automate anything that generates, consumes, measures, switches or stores energy.IoT also helps consumers collect granular data sothey can track their energy consumption in real time. What you can see, you can save. So now consumers are better able to lower their energy bills.All of these changes upend the old way of doing business in the energy industry. Thepower of controlling energy distribution no longer resides with just utilities; its become decentralized. You and I gain more control over energy generation and usage.Putting energy management into the hands of individual consumers and businesses is forcing utilities to rethink their business models. Rather than fighting decentralized energy, forward-thinking utilities are embracing it.As the grid moves toward a more distributed model, the command-and-control infrastructure is moving to a more distributed model as well, Wolf says.IoT has made its way into the public consciousness through devices like the Nest thermostat, and it will soon be universal. Businesses of all sizes are starting to realize its power to transform how they handle their energy needs  to save money, improve resiliency and reduce carbon footprint.According to Tom Willie, CEO ofBlue Pillar, IoT is at the foundation ofCleantech 3.0.Without IoT, you cant effectively deploy onsite energy solutions, Willie says. People are realizing that if youre going to build a behind-the-meter grid, you need on-site command-and-control.The growth of on-site generation has started expanding exponentially in the past 10 years, but most on-site energy systems are still disconnected and working in silos, he adds. You need the ability to centrally connect, control and optimize everything from renewables and back-up generators to microgrids, energy storage and traditional building automation systems. Thats why the new energy IoT solutions are so critical  we need a ubiquitous, connected energy ecosystem.Whats truly amazing, Willie says, is that new energy IoT solutions will even allow connection and control of older equipment that was installed before the Internet was around, positively impacting energy usage and costs.Its an exciting time to be at the intersection of IoT and energy management, he says. The future is limited only by our imaginations.Heres whatCleantech 3.0means for those it will affect most:Cleantech 3.0will democratize the way people consume energy, and thats a good thing, says Robert Cooper, CEO ofEmbue. The awareness of what your energy costs are and how you consume it will empower people to use energy more efficiently and cost-effectively. The revolution is coming, and those who are on the cutting edge will be the biggest winners.Cleantech 3.0is causing a reshuffling of responsibility across the energy landscape  and has the potential to affect entire city infrastructures, leading to the development of so-called smart citiesthat rely on IoT.The killer IoT apps that will revolutionize cities will be for smart energy and water systems, Itrons Wolf says. Right now, we lose 25% of water we pump through the streets  unacceptable in a world that will soon run short on water resources. And you can reduce street light energy costs by up to 80% if you combine LED replacement bulbs with network-controlled monitoring applications.The roles and relationships between energy production, distribution and consumption are changing, and the end-user will ultimately win. How quickly this shakes out will depend on the speed with which utilities and their customers embrace the transition.Meanwhile, keep an eye on your household devices even boring ones like garbage cans they soon may surprise you.