A panel discussion on findingabalance between security and privacy here at Disrupt New York 2016 touched on various aspectsof a complex topic, including strategies for securingcustomer data and the bigrisksposed asmore types of devices come online.How can startups best lock down customer data?By not havingaccess to it in the first place, suggestedNate Cardozo, senior staff attorney for digital rights organization theElectronic Frontier Foundation.Asked whether the EFF is seeing more willingness among companies to view the government specifically as an oppositional force,Cardozo said this is especially true formessaging companies, given how muchuser data these companies can hold.Just last week messaging giant WhatsApp was temporarily shut down in Brazil via court order after failing to hand over data to local law enforcement  data it says it does not have access to.Its a field of dreams problem because if you collect the data they will come, said Cardozo, adding that they can include a long list of interested parties, including attackers, organized crime, law enforcement and intelligence agencies.If the data is there youre going to have to protect it. One way of protecting it, of course, is to not collect it in the first place. Which some companies put to great use  like WhatsApp doesnt have access to content. Thats a great way of keeping all of that content secure.The panelists suggested this sort ofzero knowledge model will becomemore prevalent among tech companies, as a more mature understanding of the security risks trickles down through the ecosystem.Thats what Apples development line looks like, saidCardozo. I wouldnt be surprised if we saw iCloud go to a zero knowledge solution, at least as an option, within the year.The acceleration of the battle over privacy and security in the tech space is a consequence of a huge shift in the volume and type of data being put online, arguedMarten Mickos, CEO of security firm HackerOne, a security firm whose clients pay it to find vulnerabilities in their systems.When we built the Internet around 20 years ago we had just fun stuff there. Today we have everything of value governed by software and connected to the world, so suddenly all the organized criminality of the world is hittingat software systems and web systems and we must protect them. Thats a huge shift, he noted.We put our entire lives online, added Cardozo. Andwere still really bad at computer security. We barely understand how to secure devices Were barely getting started with this. And the fact that companies like Apple are starting to figure it out is causing a challenge for law enforcement that theyve never had before.One looming security concern the panel flagged up as a huge risk areembedded systems  such as medical devices, voting systems and automotive.These companies have never really had to worry about security because theyve never really had anything with networking, saidCardozo, discussing the risks posed by the rise ofthe Internet of Things (or the Internet of some other four letter word, as he put it).Why are putting radios, why are we putting networking in everything? Those companies that have engineering staff but no security staff dont know what to do with a vulnerability report. And in my practice when Im counseling a hacker or a researcher whose doing vulnerability reporting, the big guys, the software companies, those are nearly always seamless. Apple knows what to do with a vulnerability report But medical device companies? They dont have a fucking clue.Mickos said the best hope for securing digital data going forward is the shift towards using open source and companies understanding they need topooltheir security burden by inviting inoutsiders to help.In the old security paradigm people felt that human beings were the problem and tech is the solution. I think were now learning that actually tech is the problem and humans are the solution, he argued. By inviting everybody out there to help you and have a neighborhood watch where they can find your vulnerabilities is actually the fastest way to secure a system.The panel also touched on political threats to security and encryption systems  such as the recent attempt by two U.S. Senatorsto table legislation that would force software companies to build backdoors into their products.Taken literally the backdoor bill that Senators BurrandFeinsteinintroduced would ban general purpose computers, which could not possibly have been their intent  it just shows how naive they are. But that was an opening gambit. They never intended that draft to pass. Its the next draft that we have to worry about, addedCardozo.