
Sonny Singh is the chief commercial officer of BitPay. Peer-to-peer (P2P)lendingbecame one of the hottest industries in fintech or any other any industry in2015. Companies raised large venture rounds, investors found unicorns and there were even a couple of IPOs.Will 2016 continue this trend, or will the P2P lending bubble finally pop?Here are some of the highlights of2015:Prosper just announced itsnumbers for2015. In the last year, Prosper originated $3.7 billion in loans (with $1.15 billion coming in a record-breaking Q4). This growth was double that of the previous year, with revenues of more than $200 million in2015 up from $81 million in 2014.LendingClub hasnt released their2015numbers yet, but its estimated they will have originated more than $8 billion in loans, as they had already done $5.8 billion in the first three quarters of2015.WhileLendingClub and Prosper were disrupting the personallendingspace, companies like OnDeck, Kabbage and Funding Circle became brand names in the small-businesslendingspace. SoFi went after the student loan space and has quickly become the largest provider of student loan refinancing.After the financial crisis in 2008, banks started tightening their consumerlendingpolicies. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act passed in 2010 added even more restrictions. The days of acquiring cheap, quick loans were over, and consumers found it very difficulttoget loans, even if they had good credit.This inefficiency ledtothe emergence of onlinelendingsites like Prosper andLendingClub, the first large playerstoreally emerge in the consumer space. They offered consumers a chancetoget loans easily and quickly. To minimize risk, theyonly focused on consumers with high credit scores, andthe typical loan amount ranged from $20,000-$30,000.WhileLendingClub and Prosper were attacking consumerlending, OnDeck, Kabbage and Funding Circle went after the small-businesslendingspace. They focused on business loans ranging from $100,000-$200,000 for businesses who wantedto pay for inventory, franchises, equipment, etc.While these online small businesslendingsites expanded,lendingfrom large banks decreased dramatically. Accordingto bank regulatory filings, the 10 largest banks lent $44.7 billion in 2014, which is down 38 percent from its peak of $72.5 billion in 2006.There are several factors that will determine if the rapid growth inpeer-to-peerlendingwill continue:Rise in interest rates.Most experts believe that as interest rates increase, so too will the number of loan defaults. They believe this will cause the bubble in thelendingspacetopop. The Fed has already started raising interest rates. However, as long as the economy is doing well and unemployment is low, the number of defaults should not rise that much.Regulation.Regulators are continuously looking at this space, especially since the San Bernardino terrorist/shooter obtained a $28,500 loan from Prosper weeks before he killed 14 people on December 2,2015. Prosper issued the loan after all the proper paperwork and background checks were made. While Prosper is not under investigation, the government is now looking at additional regulationstoprevent terrorists from getting loans.Competition from banks.While Goldman Sachs has decidedtobuild their ownlendingsite, most of the other large banks have decidedtopartner with the existinglendingfirms. JP Morgan recently announced a partnership with OnDeck Capitalthat will allow ittooutsourcetothe OnDeck platform business loans under $250,000.Other banks, like BBVA, Credit Suisse and JP Morgan, have directly invested in Prospers latest funding round, while Silicon Valley Bank and Norwest Venture Partners (Wells Fargo is the sole LP for Norwest) have invested inLendingClub.Market size.How big is thelendingmarket?LendingClubs IPO filing cites the size of the consumer credit market at $3.2 trillion  $380 billion of that would qualify forLendingClubs loan policy.Lendingfirms also maybe abletotarget verticals like auto and medical loans indeed, Prosper recently acquired American HealthcareLending.International markets also couldbe a large opportunity, but, with the exception of Funding Circle, most sites are focused on the domestic market in the U.S.Lendingsites in 2016 will continuetoput up impressive numbers. The rise in interest rates should not slow things down, as long as the economy doesnt crash and cause unemploymenttoincrease dramatically. The lack of defaults duetorising interest rates also shouldcause the stock price of LendingClubtogo up.Wealso may see IPOs from Kabbage, Prosper, Avant and SoFi in 2016, with potential acquisitions from large banks, as well as card associations like MasterCard, Visa and Discover.However, dont be surprisedtosee Internet consumer companies like Google, Facebook or Amazon enter this space and either partner with or acquire existinglendingsites.These Internet giants would have great synergies withlending sites  and be abletooffer these loanstoa lot more consumers.