Twitterhas had a trickyTuesday. The social media site wentoffline forseveral hours, covering a number of but not all  regions, and perhaps partly in response to that, its stock hit a new low after it opened up for trading after the long weekend. The companys stock went as low as $16.43, before finally closing at $16.69 for the day, down nearly 7% from its opening price.Square, the other company led by CEO Jack Dorsey, also closed down nearly 8% at $9.47.From what weve been able to see, today there were periods where Twitterwasnot working for a large number of its users, either partially or not at all, inLondon and other parts of the UK, Switzerland, and Bangkok (according to reports from our own team) this morning UK time. However, we also had initial reports from Palo Alto and other parts of the U.S. that seem to indicate it never dropped, although now as the East Coast is waking up, the service is wobbling once again.Workers in affected regions sitting down to a little procrastination at their desks with cups of coffee had tostick to reading Facebook and Instagram instead.More seriously, technical issues are never good, but fora service that trades on providing a real-time stream of information,they hitat the very core of the product. Twitter may beused as a diversion for many, but as part of its wider business expansion, thecompany has also been attemptingto placeitself deeper intothe center of how people interact and communicate for more critical situations in business andemergency situations. Latency issues like the ones Twitter experiencedtoday cast a shadow on those ambitions, and makes it feel less reliable.Twitter was once notorious for its downtime, but much of that has disappeared in more recent years. Thecompany, in working to wipe away that image, in 2013 symbolically changed its technical difficulty pagefrom the infamous fail whaleto a littlerobot mechanic.Its hard to guess how much thisoutage affected Twitter in the public markets. That is to say, the company has already been seeing a lot of pressure on its stock price and so its unclearwhether todays activity is connected to the sites performance. The companys share price opened up $0.23 this morning before dropping again anddipping to$17.24,setting a new52-week low. The company is due to report quarterly earnings on February 10.The map-based Down Detectorprovides a visual guide for where service may be interrupted.It may be showing a delayed status, however: earlier it was indicating a fault in the UK when service was back up.Twitter itself is notingin its developer dashboard that fourparts of its service /1.1/friends/ids,/1.1/search/tweets,/1.1/statuses/home_timelineandstream.twitter.com are seeing varying levels of service disruption and performance issues.User Streamsappears to be operating normally.Twitters status page on Tumblr, meanwhile, gives little clue as to what actually happenedin the short message posted an hour ago:Some users are currently experiencing problems accessing Twitter. We are aware of the issue and are working towards a resolution.A spokesperson contacted by TechCrunch said there was nothing to add to the statement for now.We are updatingthis post as we learn more.