As a watch obsessive you cant help but look at the new Huawei Watch and chortle knowingly. Announced a few months ago at MWC, the product lay dormant until now and our poor brothers at Engadget, forced to go to IFA, have some shots. They are very weird.Whats most striking about the watch isnt the styling or even price  its a classic piece in line with other Android Wear devices, and at $349 Im sure theyll sell a few. As an aside, the pricing is highly telling. The cheapest leather model is on par with other Android watches but the $799 rose-gold plated steel case with metal bracelet screams unnecessary price inflation. Apple took cues from jewelry makers and now others are taking cues from Apple in terms of ridiculous pricing.What I find funny are the watch faces.These watch faces are direct homages to established brands. That gold three hander with poppy hands? Breguet. That figure-eight model with the constellation in one of the dials? Jaquet Droz. The complicated thinger with all the weird dials? Pretty much any complicated watch since 1990 including Patek Phillipe and even Seiko.In short, those faces mirror traditional watchmaking to a fault. In fact, they camouflage the smartwatch aspect of the watch so completely that were almost back to where we began.I cant quite put my finger on what bothers me about those faces. Perhaps its the sense of history cheapened by electronics or perhaps the manufacturers dependence on old designs to create comfort.While Ive been wearing my Apple Watch less and less (its true!), I find the faces refreshingly disconnected from mainstream watch design. In fact, Im reminded of Ikepod when I look at the Apple Watch faces (as I should since theyre Marc Newsons). I also feel that earlier Android Wear makers like Samsung and Motorola eschewed history entirely, creating basic faces for their pieces with disconnection from anything that came before.My question then is whether these faces are harbingers of things to come  where manufacturers borrow from the old masters  or a blip on the design radar. A complicated watch is, in truth, comforting. Its like looking at the engine of an older car where the engineers made the best of what they were given and everything is in its right place. That sense of comfort can initially please when you look at a faux rendition of a complex watch on a little OLED screen, but it eventually grates, dropping us into the uncanny valley of digital rendering. In short I wish Huawei didnt have to depend on the past to sell the future.Ultimately it doesnt matter. These watches are made for a market where luxury watches are still very popular and where the impression of luxury is often more important than the item itself. Like the Frederique Constant Horological Smartwatch, these watches want to appeal to the true or the wannabe traditionalist. Its a fine mission, just one that makes things a little awkward.That said, when they can fit a robotic singing bird into an Android smartwatch then Ill really be impressed.