Twitter Moments launched this week, which caught none of Twitters most hardcore users by surprise. We knew it by the name of Project Lightning, I refer to it as Project Glacier because it slows things down for folks who arent use to drinking from the water hose.One of the most talked about aspects of Moments is the lack of personalization and customization. That is fair. Its also by design. This isnt some PR speak comin at you, its a known fact and the product was launched barebones on purpose.That doesnt seem to have stopped the bafflement of some super smart folks:Confused! Twitter Moments incorporates nothing from my Follows or Lists, and is not customizable? What am I missing? @adambain @kevinweil Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) October 7, 2015@rrhoover Good point. Really surprised moments aren't personalized either, seems like such a key differentiator. Andrew Dumont (@AndrewDumont) October 9, 2015The key of Moments is to nail the experience of most people who consume tweets. Im not talking about the 316M of us who use it, us itIm talking about the rest of the world that consumes tweets by other means, namely on TV. Those folks have either signed up and abandoned, or have never signed up in the first place. There are probably hundreds of mini-cohorts that Twitter are going after, I just painted a broad stroke.People are also conflating not knowing how to use Twitter vs. not seeing a use of Twitter for themselves. Most people know what Twitter is. They just dont see the point of using it themselves. Its not rocket science. You have an open box and you put text in it and people can see it. I spend a lot of time talking to people who dont spend all of their time on a computer like I do, and they get the concept, not the reason to use it.Moments is supposed to be a reason to use Twitteron Twitter.Now that we have that out of the way, back to personalization. People who dont use a product have no data to personalize, therefore Moments had to, and did, ship barebones. Its very similar to the experience youd have watching CNN. Youre presented with a story and then shown a bunch of content found on Twitter that has to do with that story. CNN maybe does it for one or two stories a day tops, whereas Moments pumps these things out all day.Smart.For those of us who actually tweet, we like finding our own Moments. The fun of Twitters fragmentation is that we can piece things together ourselves. Its like a scavenger hunt. Some of us are paid to do it. Some of us simply have the time to blow on doing it. That audience is tiny compared the rest of the universe. So sometimes Twitters first go at a feature isnt going to be for us. Also, people have complained that retweets and favs are hidden. Thats fine, because the people who dont use Twitter have no graph to share things with.Perhaps Moments will one day be more intelligent. Or maybe it wont. Maybe well be shown less sports, or in my case more. But what Moments cant do, and most personalized or customized products cant do, is see into the future and figure out exactly what kind of stuff you want to see before you see it. Itll always be wrong. Itll never be perfect. Thats how life works, our brains are a wacky thing. What product do you currently use that you would consider to be perfectly personalized to your wants and needs? I thought about it and couldnt name one. Expectations on things that are overhyped get out of whack, and sure, thats Twitters fault. Theyve been talking about Lightning for a long long time, and well, geeks tend to ride the hype wave. And then its not what they hoped. And then they crash. And then the thing sucks and its not for me and its going to fail.At the end of the day, all of this requires an open mind and the ability to step outside of yourself, step outside of how you use a thing. Because if you want tons of others to use the thing that you use, which you should, then the thing is going to change a bit.What will Moments be judged on? While we dont know the exact vanity metrics Twitter will shove at us, you bet that it has to do with eyeballs and a bit of clicking around. Not the clicking that power users do, but the kind of babysteps that shows people are understanding the nuances of Twitter. It doesnt matter where the buttons are, because rest assured theyll be moved if theyre not working. Its hard to fix the plane while the plane is flying, but thems the breaks.The genius of Moments is that an entire team within the company agreed on a path and stuck to it. They spent time thinking about the hard problems that face them and took steps to correct it, no matter what anyone else outside of the company thinks. And the rest of the company got behind them.Thats promise.Thats the glimmer of an reinvigorated company.