The venture landscape changes fast. Ten years ago, few would have predicted the ubiquity of micro funds or the rise of Andreessen Horowitz or the very existence of a platform like AngelList that enables people with enough connections to become pop-up VCs.Few  though not most  see whats coming next, too, and thats women VCs, taking their place alongside men, in equal, or nearly equal, numbers. In fact, wed argue that the shift will represent the biggest opportunity over the next decade.It may be hard to believe, given the wealth of attention paid to the low numbers of women in the industry and the obstacles theyre having to overcome. But the signs of change are everywhere if youre paying close enough attention.Women now make up 60 percent of college graduates, and many more of them are graduating with tech-friendly degrees. (Women are exceeding at elite institutions particularly, and now account for one-third of Stanfords undergraduate engineering students, as well as one-third of Stanfords graduate engineering students.)Though women are making slow inroads at venture firms  according to CrunchBase data published earlier this week, just 7 percent of the partners are women at the top 100 venture firms  women areincreasingly finding pathsaround todaysguard.They represent 12 percent of investing partners at corporate venture firms a percentage likelyto growbecause of heightenedinterest in how tech companies farewhen it comes to diversity. We believe its a missed opportunity if we arent an active participant in funding women- and minority-led companies and funds, says Janey Hoe, VP of Ciscos 40-person investments unit.More, overthe last three years, 16 percent of newly launched venture and micro-venture firms had at least one female founder, shows CrunchBase data.Ch-ch-ch-ch-changesSo whats happening? As VC Jon Callaghan of True Ventures noted during a panel discussion in San Francisco earlier this week, Moores law has played a starring role. As costs have fallen and made entrepreneurship accessible globally, more people are coming into venture capital.Monique Woodard, a longtime entrepreneur and more newlya venture partner at 500 Startups, credits her own path to the democratization of information brought about by social media platforms, as well asthe many public insights into the industry thatVCs like Fred Wilson and Brad Feld have contributed over time.You suddenly have this library around venture capital and thought leadership that didnt exist before, said Woodard, speaking on the same panel.Its also the case that womenan expandingnumberofwhom are founding startups, as well as rising through the ranks of other companies  have more role models in VC than they did a decade ago.Of course, none of these trends is brand-spanking new. So why, you may be wondering, is now suddenly the tipping point? Becausethe ethical, businessand financial reasons for change are finally poised to overtake the industrys inertia.For starters, as the venture industry evolves from a boutique business to one thats more mainstream, people are taking an interest in how it operates. Expect this attention to impact universities, in particular, which are among the worlds most powerful institutional investors. Big schools like Harvard, Yale and the University of Californiatypically invest a percentage of their endowments in venture capital. And theyre feeling more outside pressure than ever before in terms of what they are funding. Last fall, for example, after being pressed by environmentalists, the UC systempulled $200 million out of coal and oil sands investments. (Many institutions have divested from tobacco interests, too.)Neither endowments nor pension funds seem overlyfocused on gender and ethnic diversity just yet, but with a fast-changing U.S. population, they will.In fact, some of these so-called limited partners receive active counsel, including by Callaghan, who says hes advising them tobe aggressive and act now, while thereare still irrational biases against womenand ethnicities to exploit.Turn and face the strangeVenture firms are facing a more immediate business risk: the very real possibility that without women investors on staff, they willlosing out on promising investment opportunities.According to a new survey of 265 male and female founders who have taken money from True Ventures, a high percentage said they would not seekfunding from a firm without any females in investing roles. An even higher percentage responded that theyd be even more inclined to seekfunding from firms that employ more than one female investing partner, says Callaghan.That message is reaching venture teams. Last month, Founders Fund brought aboard renowned angel investor Cyan Banister as its firstwoman partner; First Round Capital in February brought aboard Birchbox co-founder Hayley Barna as venture partner. True Ventures has, meanwhile, authorized Amy Errett, the CEO of True-backed hair care companyMadison Reed,to write checks on its behalf. True is also bringing on another woman who will be writing checks on behalf of the firm, says Callaghan. (More on this appointment soon.)Whichbrings us to ourthird point: If LPs and VCs want to see robust financial returns over the next decade, more capital will need to be entrusted to women and other currently underrepresented groups who have different networks and a bring a different point of view into the mix. Woodard noted on the panelthat black and Latino consumer alone account for $2.5 trillion in annual spending. And study after study (after study) has shown that diverse groups financially outperform more homogeneous ones.This is why you saw Intel Capitallast June create a$125 million fund to back women and other underrepresented entrepreneurs. Its why Kapor Capital has a mandate to invest in women and minorities. Its why Andreessen Horowitz, which has exclusively male investment partners, is trying to get the word out toentrepreneurs that its interested in underrepresented groups, including by organizing networking events for techs black community. (The Information wrote about thoseefforts earlier this week.)Said Callaghan on Tuesday night, This little press leak of [Andreessen Horowitz] whispering [to the media about its efforts to court diverse talent], were all thinking like that. The leaders in our industry see this as a huge opportunity, and were all moving quickly to address it.This  bias will turn, he told the crowdof largelyfoundersandVCs, explaining tothose gathered the ways he has seen and capitalized onsimilar biases in the past.Thebiggest beneficiaries will be those whoexploit itand soon.Said Callaghan, seeminglyto thosewho might bethinking of raising a fund: Dont wait.Doit now. Move fast.