Disrupt London Day One was a smashing success, and included speaking appearances from Sir Alex Ferguson of Manchester United, former Arsenal footballer; and sports broadcaster Thierry Henry (yep, there was plenty of football on our stage); Postmates Bastian Lehmann; and a host of investors from Sonali De Rycker and Andy McLoughlin to David Hornik.But the magic truly begins when the Disrupt Battlefield kicks off.Fifteen companies crossed our stage to launch their product in London today, but only four can pass through to the finals.Tomorrow, these companies will have exactly six minutes to pitch their product, followed by a 12-minute question and answer session with esteemed judges. Those judges include Accel Partners Fred Destin, Hassles Alex Depledge, Passion Capitals Eileen Burbidge, Balderton Capitals Suranga Chandratillake, Talkdesks Cristina Fonseca, and TechCrunch Editor-in-Chief Matthew Panzarino.So without any further ado, it is with pleasure that we announce the finalists of the TechCrunch Disrupt London 2015 Battlefield:Jukedeck is a platform that lets users create custom, cheap, royalty-free soundtracks for their videos and/or podcasts, all without any musical talent. Users simply choose a tempo, mood, style and the length of the track and Jukedeck does all the heavy lifting. Users can get their first five songs free each month, and then pay $7 per track, while larger businesses pay $15 per soundtrack. There is even a $150 fee for the exclusive copyright over a users song.Lystable helps companies manage the relationship between freelancers, vendors, and contractors, keeping track of which of these vendors or contractors has previously worked with the company, rankings of those freelancers, as well as offering messaging templates to reach out to workers quickly and painlessly. Lystable launched out of TechStars and has raised $3.5 million in seed funding.Max is a last-mile delivery service for urban Africa, giving merchants a way to have their goods delivered to customers within three hours of the order being placed. The platform uses an API that hooks into text messaging and other ordering platforms, with pricing based on distance instead of weight. Moreover, around 70 percent of MAX couriers are full-time employees on branded motorcycles, with extra, crowd-sourced couriers who are paid per delivery.Yoobic provides consumer-facing brands with the opportunity to monitor exactly how their items get displayed in retail spaces, ranging from the local corner store to a big-box store like Best Buy. Brands can engage with store managers and corporate marketing teams to monitor the pricing, placement and promotions around their products. The company even delivers brands with a store database, offering info around store layouts, size, aisles, and endcaps.