Yeah! Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said excitedly in response to a big question for his company: is Facebook working on augmented reality?Its a bit further out, he followed up during a talk about virtual reality at the Vanity Fair New Establishment Summit in San Francisco.Facebooks intentions in virtual reality were already clear after buying Oculus, which is already shipping units in partnership with Samsung and is prepping the launch of its flagship headset. Facebooks MichaelAbrash said virtual reality is already past the knee of the curve, and has basically arrived. But augmented reality, by its nature, presents a new type of problems, Abrash said  hence it taking a little longer for it to become as feasible as virtual reality.Itsvery interesting; its something wed all use if it worked well, Abrash said. Its kind of seamless. Maybe itll be contacts [or glasses]. Youll have something on and itll be VRand ARas you choose. But right now the VRtech is past the knee of the curve. For AR, its harder. There are a whole host of challenges  how you do the optics and displays and get photos onto the eyes, how you have something thats socially acceptable and comfortable all day. I think VR is here now, I think AR will be here, but its a long road to get there.Augmented reality represents a different opportunity for Facebook than virtual reality. With VR as is, the Oculus Rift is designed to be an immersive experience that essentially helps the user shut out the rest of the world and focus only on the experience. It will let people experience intimate moments. An example Zuckerberg gave was giving family members the opportunity to watch a child take its first steps.AR, however, is about keeping a connection with the world around the user. The implications for a Facebook-driven AR system are pretty obvious. Imagine, maybe, walking down the street and getting a heads-up display for the number of likes a business has. By definition, AR is supposed to augment a users vision and give them the capability to do more with the world around them, and Facebook can use that to power a whole suite of new experiences.Facebook wont be the only company working on augmented reality, but it certainly has the ability to become a juggernaut in the space. Theres also the looming presence of the notoriously quiet augmented reality startup Magic Leap, which received a massive investment from Google.And of course, the classic problem case here was Google Glass, which ended up with social backlash rather than acceptance of the new technology.Zuckerberg earlier explained If you think about phones, its still a little awkward to take it out of your pocket. In the future, if you want to look around you should be able to look around. If you want to select something, you should be able to look at it.