Earlier today, The Information reported a story suggesting that the smart money is betting less on early-stage tech startups.Its evidence?Data provided by SignalFire, a venture firm and real-time information platformthat says blue-chip VCs accounted for5.3percentof Series A funding in the first nine months of this year, down from 6.1percentlast year and 7.5percentin 2013.The downward trend isnt entirely new, as investor Keith Rabois tweetedthis morning.@amir @bgurley @pmarca why surprising? This has been going on for 3-6 months very acutely. Or just read my tweets. Keith Rabois (@rabois) November 24, 2015For what its worth,we reported on the early-stage slowdownin late September.Still, the reasons for ithavent beencrystal clear.Weve speculated it could be anything from a seasonal slowdown to uncertainty in China to nervousness about the capital markets.Now some investors suggestthe impetus was, indeed,tied to abrief but somewhat terrifying plunge that Nasdaq took last summer, an event that made many rethink how much they were spending on startupsand the rate at which they were spitting outterm sheets.I think deals are getting done;theyre just getting done a little more slowly, says founder-turned-investor Jason Lemkin, who quietly left his role asmanaging director at Storm Ventures recently and is now investing on his own behalf.Earlier in the year, a startup would receive not just multiple term sheets in a week, but everyone was using preemptive offers, meaning theywanted to do the deal today and pay todays price, says Lemkin.Then Nasdaq peaked over the summer, and investors began to realize they were funding a lot of stuff thats pretty good. The problem, he adds: VCs cant fund pretty good. Pretty good leads to lots of carcasses. So things slowed down.VCs are still writing checks, Lemkin notes. But they want to seetwo to three times the revenue they did before providing the same termsas earlier this year.Before, a VC would give the company with $1 million [in ARR] $18 million in funding at a pre-money valuation of $60 million. Now, they want to see $2.5 million for the same terms. Its multiple compression. VCs were learning forward 24 months; now, theyre maybe learning forward 12 months instead because theyre feeling more risk averse at the moment.Rabois, who invests on behalf of Khosla Ventures, appears to agree. Asked if if hes been taking fewer meetings with startups, he saysKhoslas team is looking to invest as aggressively as ever.But he also says thatinvestors are reverting to historical standards of diligence instead of jumping at the latest trendy company. The end result, Raboissays: Founders can longer rely on FOMO as a way of forcing a highly accelerated process.Sounds like there isnt too much reason for good founders to be concerned. Venture is notoriously cyclical, and one could see sentiment changing as abruptly as it turned a few months ago.In fact,Lemkin and Rabois agree that now is no time to more meaningfully slow things down, no matter what the public market is doing.In my opinion, itshighly irrational to alter seed investments and most Series Adecisions based upon the current environment, says Rabois. Thesecompanies will be valuable fiveto 10yearsfromnow.These are the best of times for certain companies, particularly [software-as-a-service] startups, says Lemkin.People who have been around for a while [founding and investing in enterprise startups], our jaws drop when we see how well some of these companies are doing. Themarkets are bigger,so the bar is higher. But if yousit this out becausethe market was overheated earlier this year, youre a fool.