
Ben Narasin was an entrepreneur for 25 years, a seed investor for 8 and is now a VC as a General Partner at Canvas Ventures.One of my seed founders reached out to me recently, requesting an immediate weekend sit-down. He needed advice because his company was imploding.The company had in the bank most of the money it had raised from its seed round. It had recruited a staff of exceptionally talented engineers who were deeply passionate about their mission  and working for reasonable wages. But it was collapsing upon itselfbecause of irreconcilable differences between the founders.As we talked through the trauma, it became clear there was unlikely to be a path out of the morass. I suggested the parties find a way to agree to disagree and find a way for one group to go forward with the business. Or, if that was impossible, work out as clean a way to unwind as possible to protect future opportunities for all involved.His response was somewhat chilling; the other founders had no interest in protecting the future or finding a way forward.They had moved here for the entrepreneurial journey, and if it failed them, theyd merely move home.What they were going through at that very moment was the entrepreneurial journey.Looking at startups from the outside, its easy to assume the startup game is just that, a game. A game with big winners and glorious and rapid rises to the top. Of billion-dollar valuations and worldwide conquests. Of apps serving hundreds of millions of people and liquidity to ensure glory for ones heirs for generations to come.But entrepreneurship is not a game, and the vast majority of the time spent on the journey (one I have and do live, embrace and love to my core) is a slog, spent dealing with painand strife and conflict. Essentially, its:To name just a few that come to mind. The entrepreneurial journey is hard. Its just plain hard.I have had many occasions to counsel founders in difficult times; manyhave gone on to success, somehave gone on to failure. My message is consistent. Its going to get worse before it gets worse. And then, maybe, if you keep pushing through that, as well, it may get better. Just keep pushing through. And remember, good or bad, amazing or horrific, its all part of the same entrepreneurial journey.