
Tomasz Tunguz is a Partner at Redpoint Ventures.One of the most critical metrics for software companies  but also one of the most difficult to measure  is the lifetime value of their customers (LTV). The lifetime value dictates how a company should spend its marketing and sales dollars.Unfortunately, many early stage startups struggle to measure LTV, because they havent been around very long and, consequently, havent seen a large number of customers through their lifespans with the product.Most software companies calculate their LTV and a critical related metric, customer acquisition cost (CAC), using the following formulas:But rather than measure it in this way, an early startup must estimate its customer lifetime value. So, whats the best way to do this?One of the most innovative techniques Ive seen was created by a Redpoint portfolio company founder, Vik Singh, CEO of Infer. Viks innovation is using a rolling sales and marketing period to estimate both LTV and CAC. Ive asked Vik to explain his approach below.If youre running a startup like me, there are three key problems with the standard formulas for determining LTV and CAC:While its often helpful for investors to use the traditional calculations (for example, one year of growth spend divided by the following years number of new customers) when generating comps for industry benchmarking across portfolio and publicly traded companies, these kind of generalizable formulas arent accurate or forward-looking enough to inform internal decision making and run a business.As a company executive, you have access to more detailed numbers, a la your CRM and accounting systems  so its possible to build more advanced forecasting models to derive these metrics.However, I would contend that you need rules of thumb that can be computed effortlessly. You cant improve something if you cant measure it, right? If you consistently monitor these key SaaS metrics, you can be more nimble about increasing LTV or decreasing CAC.So, heres what I came up with thats easy to compute, doesnt depend on much closed sales data, is forwarding looking and better addresses the attribution gap. Lets goThe first thing you need is your cost per opportunity. Say you spent $10 million on sales and marketing (fully loaded including salaries) in the month of June, and created 2,000 opportunities that month. Your cost per opportunity for June would be $5,000. This assumes a short opportunity lag time, which is common in the SaaS world, but you also could use the prior and following months to do the calculation if your sales cycle is longer.Next, you want to determine your expected (as in probabilistic terms) CAC, using your opportunity win rate and average deal size, which shouldnt fluctuate much. If, historically, your win rate has been 20 percent, and your average annual contract value (ACV) is $30,000, then your ECAC would work out as follows:If you divide ECAC by your average ACV, you will derive the payback period (in months)  the time it will take for you to recoup your growth spend on acquiring that customer. In this case:The customer pays for itself two months before its up for renewal (assuming an annual contract), which is not bad. Related to payback, you can compute the return on investment (ROI) over a subscription period. For example:And, if you know (or think) your ACV will appreciate 15 percent (so 115 percent of the first year ACV, or 1.15 in decimal form) if the customer renews for another year, then your expected ROI for two years of subscription works out as follows:To compute LTV, you need to estimate how many years your typical customer will stay with you. This can take several years to find out using actual sales data, so if you dont know, then be conservative based on other companies in your space (ask your investors!).Lets assume a three-year average lifetime  then, based on the assumptions above and on annual contracts (versus month-to-month service), you can forecast LTV as follows:It will take more than two years to know your actual renewal increases if your renewals happen annually  and you probably wont press hard on renewal increases after just one year with your earliest customers.You can try analyzing industry comps to determine a good target, or just be conservative and remove the appreciation assumption, which also reduces the complexity of the formula (it would become $30K * 3 [estimated customer lifetime] = $90,000).Finally, lets put it together  divide ELTV by ECAC. Using the first ELTV value of $104,175, and dividing that by the ECAC of $25K, we get 4.167. From a company health perspective and what Andreessen Horowitz expects to see for a good SaaS business (3X or more), this is very good.Ask most SaaS executives what their CAC is and theyre likely to cite a number from a previous quarter or year. But because ECAC is based on the number of opportunities generated very recently (whether closed or not yet closed), it provides guidance on your current sales pipeline.Another great thing about this technique is that you can adjust any rate and see how it changes the figures (i.e., decrease average deal size, increase the opportunity win rate and decrease lifetime value to see what the impact of, say, lowering your pricing scheme might look like).Of course, the attribution of opportunities to growth spend isnt perfect, but its much better than the outdated CAC used by most SaaS companies with which Ive worked. This approach calls it out, so youre forced to make an assumption, which is far better than the one-size-fits-all formulas were given by the investor community.With the methodology above, an SaaS entrepreneur can compute their key SaaS metrics at any time. More frequent, useful guidance about a business will create a competitive edge by letting you read, predict, monitor and take advantage of market dynamics faster than other startups that might be crowding your space.