Computer vision technologist Chris Carson has built aportabledevice that turns any regular vehicleinto a connected car. The Caruma, which Carson calls a Fitbit for driving, tracksmileage, driver performance, trip historyand GPS location information. The device also comes with built-in dual high definition video to record whats happeningsimultaneously frominside and outside the car in case of accident or theft.Were starting to see more modern vehicles move into the connected car space. Jaguar recently debuted its F-type convertible at the Los Angeles Auto Show, showcasing the vehicles built-in data trackingand secure software over-the-air (SOTA) updating.The Tesla Model S offers an infotainment system allowing you to monitor energy use and other drivingmetrics.Other manufacturers are working on embedding technology into vehicles, as well. Google recently patented a connected car video system to warn drivers of road hazards.But most of whats out there now is built into the black box of modern, oftenmore expensive vehicles. The Caruma is a portable device that can work withany car for $400  or just a bit less than a GoPro.To use the Caruma, you mount it on your dashboard or car window and then download an app on your smartphone in order to control the device. Information is gathered and uploaded to your phone usingBluetooth or a built-in 4G LTE Caruma Wi-Fi hotspot, which allows multiple users to connect devices without draining your phone battery.Thedevice also has a halo feature (pictured above) that will glow green, yellow or red to warn drivers when theyre being too aggressive on the road. Another feature was designed for parents,and it will allow them to geofence theirteen drivers within a 25-mile radius that will alert the parent if their kid drives outside the perimeter or if theyre speeding and being reckless.But at a higher level, this is a big visual data platform, Carson said. Thats what makes our company so valuable is were collecting all this visual data. For example, youre driving by a parking space and the camera records that and sends that information to the cloud and tells drivers theres a parking space.There seem to be a lot of cool possibilities with Carumas technology. However, there are sure to be some privacy concerns withall this data gathering and ability to record large amounts of video. Carson brushes that off, pointingout that most car companies have set up labs for improving technology and working on better ways to track driving data  many of them in Silicon Valley.Honda, Toyota  theyve all set up in this area, Carson said. Weve got to move hard and fast here.Part of that will be in bringing in proper funding. Caruma is bootstrapped from Carsons previous successes for now. The sole founderholds a PhD in robotic navigation, and much of his career has been in M&A and working with Fortune 500 companies. He even owned a factory in China at one point.But now its about scaling the business, and that means venture capital. Carson tells us hes meeting with several VC firms right now, including those specializing in the car tech industry.