Editors Note:Christopher O. Herns is Vice President of Strategy, Innovation and Analysis of SpareBank 1 Group, Norways second largestfinancialinstitution. He was previously a partner at Core Group, where he worked with strategy development and innovation for Technology, Media, Telecom andfinancialservices.Banking has gone from somewhere you go to something you do. If we are to believe thatthesharingeconomywill shape ourfuture, banking and allfinancialservices will become something that merely exists inthebackground,similar to other basic utilities.I have previously argued that financialservices are in danger ofbecoming a commoditydue to the disruption of traditional value networks and business models, as well as lack of trust fromthemillennial generation.Thesharingeconomyis already reshapingtheindustry through P2P lending, social payments, crowdfunding and P2P insurance. But if we look at what is going on in other industriesandtherest of society,theimplications are far more extensive.Jeremy Rifkin stirred up a great deal of debate withtherelease of his bookTheZero Marginal Cost Society where he states thatthecapitalist era is passing.Thecatalyst for this isthewidespread adoption of technology andtherise ofthe Internet of Things. According to Rifkin,automation andsharingservices will replace traditional means of production, renderingthemarginal cost of products and services close to zero.There is already a wide range of companies acting as proof to this hypothesis.Uber as a ridesharingservice needs no further introduction, buttheintegrated payment solution wherethecustomers scan their credit cards once gives an indication ofthefutureof payments wheretheact of paying for a service is integrated withtheservice itself. According to McKinsey, 80 percent of customer interaction with their banks is through paying for goods and services. When this is integrated into theservice, banks become invisible in everyday spending.Thesame can be said for insurance, where Airbnb offers homeowners insurance andhost-protection insurance as an integrated part oftheservice. Both Uber and Lyfthave expanded their liability insurancefor ridesharing, and companies like TaskRabbitinclude an insurance policycovering property damage to make trusting strangers easier. You may ask yourself, when wasthelast time you really wanted to purchase travel insurance? Chances are you wanted to travel, and insurance was a necessity. Just imaginetheimplications fortheauto insuranceindustry in a possiblefutureof ridesharing inself-driving cars with integrated liability coverage.These services are possible due to a global digital distribution, which creates another challenge for incumbents in traditional industries on an infrastructure level.Forthefinancialsector, theblockchain technology represents such a technological paradigm shift wheretheledger itself is publicand distributed. This eliminatestheneed for costly elements such as clearing and settlement, making blockchain and micropaymentsthe ideal platform. This enablesmore services to be leased on a granular basislike paying for Wi-Fi bytheminute as well as removing more ofthefriction inthepayment process.But isthesharingeconomya true form of social capitalism or a catalyst for wealth disparity where global ecosystems like Google, Facebook and service platforms like Uber and Airbnb create a form of digital feudalism?According to Quartz,thesecret totheUbereconomyis wealth inequality. This issupportedby research fromtheBrookings Institution,which states thatthe birthplace ofthesharing-economymovement, San Francisco, hadthelargest increase in inequality of any U.S. city from 2007 to 2012. Another unresolved issue ofthesharingeconomyis howthefixed cost associated with infrastructurewill be financed in a long-term perspective. Even though technological platforms are relatively inexpensive to set up and deploy, history shows that production means lowmarginal costs of producing often have high initial capital costs.Regardless of its criticism, thesharingeconomyis expected togenerate revenues up to $335 billion by 2025, and its impact is predicted to affectnearly all industries.Whatevertheoutcome, the youngergenerations show a tendency toward being empowered citizens valuing co-creation andsharingrather than becoming consumers.Thefinancialsector has proven toevolve alongside both social and economic developmentthroughout history, and it is therefore necessary to view banks andfinanceas an integral part offutureservices and society instead of a separate entity.Theworld is changed. Much that once was is lost andthefinancialindustry is facing an uncertain future.