
John Rampton is founder of online invoicing company Due.Gone are the days of the 40-hour work week that kept us at work eight hours a day (I find that most startup founders or business owners in Silicon Valley work50-60 hours a week).Freelancing is becoming the accepted norm of the startup world. As more startups are starting to use the millions of freelancers, itsdriving more and more people to join the freelancer generation.Regardless if youre a startup or enterprise, its in your best interest to pay attention to the freelance movement if you want to succeed in this new economy.Recentresearch statesthere are more than 53 million (almost 54 Million) freelancers in the U.S.; its quickly becoming one of the largest workforces.Indeed, more than one-third of all U.S. workers have partaken in freelance work in the past year. Compared to the previous year, thats more than 700,000 new freelancers.Its alsopredictedthat by 2020, contingent work (freelancing jobs) will become the dominant form of labor, making up to 50 percent of the labor force. Another interesting stat is that 43 percent of freelancers are Millennials. Thats important to know, because1 in 3 American workers today are Millenials.This is in part due to: advances in technology that allowincreased remote work; an increasing digital economy; a growing part-time workforce;and labor force gains and losses.Furthermore, people have realizedthey can thrive financially as freelancers, enjoy the flexible schedules that can create a favorable work-life balance andeasily promote their services to potential clients.Business owners soon may not have many other options when looking for top talent, asa majority of the workforce will be freelancers in the very near future. This is factoring in all the freelancers who have a full-time job and are working on the side (this is how I found my lasttechnical business partner,whichworked out well for us both).Freelancers are typically satisfied with their decision to leave behind the 40-hour work week. However, that doesnt meanthey dont still face challenges that many traditional workers may take for granted.For example, freelancers dont have access to traditional programs like 401ks. They also must pay out-of-pocket for insurance and deal with high taxes for being self-employed. Because of this, freelancers are urging politicians to make a change  primarily income and insurance stability. Why wouldnt they, if they are becoming such a large percentage of the American workforce?It would be one thing for freelancers to demand a change and do nothing about it. The fact is, however, thatfreelancers are voicing their concerns to politicians. Of the almost 54 million freelancers in the country, an astounding86 percent have claimed that theyre going to vote in the 2016 general election.To put that into perspective, that figure is higher than the amount of voters who helped Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton sweep their presidential elections. Additionally, 62 percentof freelancers would vote for a candidatewho supports the interests of freelancers.Whether its through changes in government regulations or staying competitive, businesses of all sizes need to be aware of the concerns facing freelancers and provide programs that address these challenges. Its an important issue for most freelancers, and theyre actively making sure that these changes are implemented.For business owners like myself, especially startups, freelancers offer a wide range of benefits that most full-time employees dont. For starters, freelancers understand the everyday tasks and challenges thatbusiness ownersface. Theyre at least somewhat familiar with everything from bookkeeping, billing, branding, marketing and engaging an audience on social media. Because freelancers are their own bosses, theyre completely aware of these tasks and how important they are for the success of a business.Unlike a recent graduate who probably has never had to be concerned with paying taxes, sending invoices or building and maintaining a brand, it is almost a guarantee that freelancers already have this type of experience.A freelancer may be able to assist you in these areas as youre launching your business. Even if youre established, at least they are cognizant and respectful of these duties. For example, they wont harm your brand by going on a social media tangent that offends your customers.Another perk of hiring freelancers is that they are experts in their respective fields. They have years of experience, a portfolio and referrals to back-up their work. Even if they are young (which many are), they still are the best at what they do. Instead of just looking at a resume, you can dissect real-world examples of their work prior to bringing them on-board.Whether its a copywriter, graphic designer, CPA, customer service rep or social media strategist, freelancers are seasoned pros within their niche and are ready to dive into the projects that you assign them. Best of all? You can search for the best talent from anywhere in the world, thanks to technology that allows freelancers to work remotely.Finally, freelancers can help reduce costs. No matter the size of your business, the bottom line is always a concern. Freelancers can be a more affordable option than hiring a full-time employee. Remember, most freelancers work from home; you dont have to train them; theyll generally accept projects cheaper than salaried employees; and you dont have to worry about taxes or retirement plans.Ive been able to successfully launch and grow my personal business with freelancers. I also like using freelancers because you pay for metrics that are measured. You want a blog post written for your company? You pay for the jobor amount of words. If you need a programming job done (as I have in the past), you can get a quote based on the project and know youre not going to spend more. It helps me get the best person in the world for that job and only pay for what I need, without committingfull-time resources to it.