File it under it seemed great on paper but Googlesproject Ara modular smartphone concept is  for all intents and purposes  dead.If you want tobe a little more generous, you cansay Google haspivoted away from attempting to engineer the impossible  i.e. total smartphone modularity  to strip it back to afew swappable units that will not includecore phone components.And thats assuming its latest prototypeever makes it to market, as none of its Ara predecessors have.Theprototype Google wasshowing off at I/O last week, now pledging a 2017 commercial release for amodularphone its been working to bring to market since at least 2013, will apparently havesix spaceson the back forswappable modules.A camera, a speaker and an e-ink display are some of the early ideas for modules that Google istalking about, although itsays it intends to open this up to let third parties build stuff.The head of creative and marketing for theATAP skunkworks lab, which the project falls under at Google/Alphabet, anticipates hardware hackersbuilding crazy stuff to squeeze into Aras sockets.And crazy is the word because modularity is necessarily a minority passion. The mainstream isnt half so keen on needing to physically configure their high tech kit before they can use it as they wish (vs the geek fraternity voluntarily spending all their spare hours doing exactly that).Evenlead Ara engineer,Rafa Camargo, confessedas much himself in an interview with CNET.When we did our user studies, what we found is that most users dont care about modularizing the core functions.They expect them all to be there, to always work, and to be consistent, he said.Key phrases there: Always work. Be consistent.In other words, the exact opposite of modularity.I love that they had to do user studies to reach that startlingly obvious conclusion #Google Natasha (@riptari) May 23, 2016And stillGoogle pushes Ara.The new party trick for Ara shown off on stage at I/O isa voice command that lets the usereject a swappable camera module by saying Ok Google eject the camera  garnering much applause from the developer crowd at the event.ButGoogleusing apublicity-prone yetimpractical non-commercialgizmoto showcase another, far more core piece of its tech (voice-based interfaces) is standard playbookfor such a savvy marketing entity. (StreetView cameras strapped to hikers anyone?)Andperhaps explains why Ara has gone the distance at Google yet never shipped.The dream of the modular smartphone yieldingcompletely customizable consumer handsets always seems far more enticing than the reality of demanding, prone to falling apart prototypes.Butif the engineering challenge is hideous, the consumer reality is even moreunappealing. Fiddly bits of phonethat get misplaced or lost down the back of the sofaEr, tell me again why its a good idea tomakeasmartphone more complicated to use?And why, as a consumer, would you want your smartphone to not have a decent camera/audio performance in the first place? Thats the great conjuring concealof Ara-style modularity  buy this not very good device, and then pay more to make it a bit better!When it comes to adding extra functionality via modules, i.e. not just improving an existing set of core phone features, then the promise is tosupportniche use-cases sayby adding an environmental sensor module  which is necessarilyof minority, not mass, appeal.And why do you need a sensor to be plugged into the back of thephone anyway? The huge spectrum of extant Bluetooth IoT add-ons that link to a mobile or tablet without needing to be physically plugged into that devicemakes Araspromise of plug-and-play sensor modules at bestincrementally interesting.The e-ink screen module is perhaps the most compelling idea here IMO. But Yota Devices has beenattempting to drive interest in dual-display e-ink smartphones for years.Cool? Absolutely. Mainstream appeal? Absolutely not.Ok then,what about affordability? At one point Google was talking about the base Ara hardware being $50, which sounded surprisingly cheap (at the time). Albeit youd still need to factor in module costsAt first glance, modularity might look like an interesting avenue to explore if making phones more affordable is your key driver as a way to expand the range of features ina low cost basicdevice by enabling the buyerto spread the cost with modular add-ons.But given the engineering complexity of building a robustbase for modules to plug into and play nicely with, and the factGoogle is not specifying how much add-on modules will cost at this point, hugeaffordability is not really looking like its in Aras box of add-on tricks.At the same time,low costsmartphones continue to becomemore capable as higher end specs and features are squeezed further down thepricecontinuumby a hyper competitive, face-paced smartphone market. So modularity looks like avery slow, sub-par solution  if solution it be  to affordability.The original inspirationbehind Ara was in fact another concept called Phoneblokswhich was motivated by arecycling/reuse agenda, with a stated aim of wanting to change the way electronics are made in order to create less waste. Which is certainly a whole lot more interesting as an idea. But it is not, apparently, the direction Google is pushing Ara in.Au contraire Aras slimmed downmodularity nowappears aimed atcreating more electronic stuff per person/smartphone, by selling a pick n mix of additional hardware bits and thereby encouraging anexpanding of the electronics-plus-plastics pie.And if Google is thinking that custom add-ons could be a way to spin outthe lifespan of a single smartphone, by encouraging people to hold onto a handset for longer and thereby decrease total upgrade wastage over the longer term, well its not making a big song and dance about that being its mission as yet. So well have to wait and see.Meanwhile,a very different company has(quietly)madethat sort ofmodularity a reality.Step forward Fairphone whoseFairphone 2Android smartphone, which you can buy today (for 525), isdesigned for repairability  with a series of modules that can be swapped out when you need a new processor, say, or display. The spare parts (aka swappable modules) are sold initsonline shopSurely this more practical, less flashy modularity for sustainability issomething Google could have pushed forwith Ara. Andcould have played a leadership role in encouraging Android OEMs to look towards the circular economy for their next-gen productinspiration.Instead itwent down (and remains within) a modularrabbit hole, producing a series of fantastical prototypedemos and concept videos along the way which have really only been feeding itsown publicityagenda at this point Oh look at the cute/crazy stuff Google is making now! etc etc.It is true Mountain View isnot the only companydabbling with consumer modularity in smartphones.Back in FebruaryLGunveiled a smartphone with a swappablenodule on its bottom end. To less than great reviews. And no obvious tsunami of consumer interest. Even so LGclearlythought it worth a puntbringing a modularity-liteconcept to market.But thentostand out in the fiercely competitive smartphone market Android OEMs are having to pull out all the stops  including, apparently, offering consumers the choice to pull off and swap out the rumpof their phone. File that one under fiddly gimmick.Of course Google has even more incentive than LG to keep Android feeling fresh and funky, given the platform isthe dominant smartphone OS by a hugemargin  and Google obviously wants to keep it that way. So you could say theres an element of sustainability in its modular thinking with project Ara. But just a more self-serving kind that aims to keep developers enthused and perceptions tickled.So if/whenAra ships some time in 2017, as its now billed to, even though the phone will in all likelihood sell only in tiny quantities to niche, enthusiast buyers, the projectwill have done its bit for its parent entityby feedingthe companyswider brand narrative for multiple years. And thats a mission Google/Alphabetis of course 100%committed to.