Action cameras are like tablets. Lots of people want ONE. But very fewneed to constantly update to the latest model.I suspect this is why GoPros sales are slowing, its reduced sales forecasts, and it had to layoff 7% of its employees this week. Its hitting market saturation.Many of the people likely to buy a GoPro already have one and dontneed another.Their first one is probably already gathering dust for 11 months a year.Face it. Were not all extreme sports champions. We go skiing orsurfing or biking occasionally. We want something to capture thoseexperiences. Any GoPro will do.Our friends will be impressed and well get to relive the memorieseven if the photos and videos arent shot at cutting edge resolution.Even if the battery ran low and we couldnt choose from the entiredays activity. Even if it was a little bulkier in our pocket.An action camera does what none of our other devices do. But upgradingto this years version doesnt do much more.Its not your phone, that you use all day every day and that every one sees. Its not a status object.Its not your laptop, where slightly better specs can make your lifeor work less annoying. Its not a fundamental tool. An older, used GoPro or a cheap knockoff is fine.An action camera is like a tablet. Its nice to sometimes reador watch movies or play games on at tablet. But my years old iPad is fine. WhenI bought it, I bought the newest one. But since then Ive never evenconsidered buying another. This, combined with growing phone screens has led to tablet sales to plateau, and I believe the same is happening with action cameras.Tablet sales plateauSure, there are adrenaline junkies and adventure photographers whowill want the best action cam they can get. And GoPros own drones and virtual reality rigs could unlock new functionality that spur sales.But GoPros stock is down 15% today and around 77% over the past year. To thrive, the company will need to do something truly innovative. Otherwise theres little reason for people to buy the newest GoPro. The one they already threw in a drawer is good enough.