Call it the Edward Snowden effect. Privacy was a theme bubbling under the surface at the Mobile World Congress tradeshow  even more so than last yearwhenSilent Circle and Geeksphonegrabbed attention with demos of a privacy-centric smartphone called Blackphone.This year theywereback with a sequel device, Blackphone 2,and a plan to release a tablet, under the moniker Blackphone+. Now wholly owned by Silent Circle, the Blackphone team was alsotouting a suite of enterprise-focused encrypted apps and services,flush with $50M in new financing.Geeksphone co-founder Javier Agera, who has now moved over tohead up innovation for Blackphone, said SGP Technologies priority now is scaling up  by targeting the enterprise market.I wouldnt define Blackphone as a social enterprise but theres definitely a component there as towards making the world more secure and protecting peoples privacy. So its a big opportunity and were now focusing on making Blackphone grow, he told TechCrunch.Now in the second year were stepping up.Were entering into the converged space with the tablet. We are re-exploring how enterprises use this kind of device.We dont expect every single enterprise to take a Blackphone+ into a meeting room, so into vertical use, thats why we make it available in different forms and flavors so we can adapt and cater to the different needs.While the original Blackphone was marketed atprosumers, and they remaina secondary target, Agera said the big growth opportunity for Blackphones pro-privacy hardware and software is in the enterprise space, driven by the consumerization of enterprise IT and the BYOD (bringyour own device) trend.The perimeter of security is no longer inside the building its outside. So thats why were focused on enterprise, he said.Blackberry, the erstwhile encrypted email enterprise darling, did not even have a boothat this years MWC  although it did briefly teasea new device it has in the pipes for release later this year, showingthat while its fortunesare undoubtedly downits not entirely out of the mobile game. And with security rising up the enterprise agenda Blackberry may feel it has reasons to be cheerful.Still, its clearthe years of Blackberry owningenterprise mobility are over. Which means more room for newcomers, like Blackphone, to elbowin with freshsolutions.This is privacy. Securitys part of that. Privacy is security and policy, saidAgera, talking generally about the scope of the Blackphone project. Its not only how secure is your device, but also what do you do with your device? And we help users and companies figure out how to protect their personal data in a real-world scenario. So we know people will install Angry Birds in the phone, we just help companies create the policies so that Angry Birds is totally isolated from their [work content].Another relative newcomer to the smartphone space, Finnish mobile startup Jolla, also had some security news on the slate at MWC, announcing a partnership with SSH Communications  to create a security hardened version of its Sailfish mobile OS. Thats likely not arrivingtil next year but the trajectoryis tellingly similar, with Jolla also pointing to businesses and governments as potential customers of hardware running Sailfish Secure.All of the devices at a certain point will have a security client, Jolla co-founder Marc Dillon told TechCrunch in an interview, explaining howSailfishs security credentials are going to be burnished.So they can have secure communications peer to peer, device to device. Then in conjunction with SSH we can also offer solutions to enterprises so that if banks, hospitals, things that require high levels of security and want to be able to freely communicate peer to peer they can.Jolla hasalso now got a tablet in the works, and since launching its first device at the end of2013 has made a point of emphasizing howits business model does not involve selling user data to third parties making privacy protection a highlightedpoint of differentiation between Sailfishand GooglesAndroid. So its also now pushingprivacy plus security.Weve had a lot of interest from governments, Dillon added.Weve been talking to the European Union. Weve been talking to the Russian government Theyve come to us.Theyve been talking about this in the news.Jollas European originsexplains the regional interest from Russia. This is post-Snowden geopolitics being played out via non-U.S. mobile platform preferences, giving regional players some potential business uplift.Blackphone, meanwhile, has ties to the U.S., with offices and investors there, but has chosen to beheadquartered in Europe, in Switzerland, a country whichenshrines a right to private communications and email in its constitution. And its forked Googles Android  creating asecurity-hardened version of theplatform, called PrivatOS, thats loaded onto its own brand hardware (assembled and security signed in Madrid, Spain), with Google services replaced with its own suite of secure apps.Its business is also software as a service as well as hardware  extending Silent Circles original portfoliowith a suiteofencrypted communications apps and services thatrun on other devices, including iOS and Android. The company ispositioning its businesstoreach broadly across the mobile space to serve enterprise customers of all stripes.Agera says Blackphone already has government agencies using its services  including in the U.S.We sell worldwide, in all regions of the world. Latin America, Middle East, South East Asia, South Korea, everywhere, he added. We have companies from Fortune 50, Fortune 1000. Some corporations use us across the company, some for just the top executives. Even some corporations, they dont use us but they have us as a back-up solution  because for example when Sony was broken into, how do you manage that crisis?In Sony they had to take the old Blackberrys, like they had in the warehouse, five-year-old Blackberrys Wed rather our customers use us as a daily phone, but thats part of it. Each corporation has different needs, and we have to cater to those needs.Elsewhere on the MWC show floor a Brazilian startup called Sikur was showing off a Blackphone-a-like privacy-focused handsetcalled GranitePhone  touting encrypted text messaging, voice, group chat and email, along withAndroid and iOS versions of its software  so buyers of its devicesarent locked into talking to a limited circle of just GranitePhone users.The Brazilian government has been highly and publiclycritical of U.S. intelligence agency surveillance programs,soits nosurprise that a homegrownstartup hasfollowed Blackphones lead and is pitching counter-surveillance technologies of itsown.Open source company Mozilla, which makes the HTML5-based Firefox mobile OS, was also talking privacyin Barcelona this week  promotingan ongoing collaboration with German carrier Deutsche Telekom, which itannounced at MWC last year.Media reports initially got the wrong end of the stick, thinking the pair were about to unbox adedicated privacy phone. That was not in fact the case. Instead they discussed anongoing collaboration thats aiming tobake privacy thinkinginto Mozillas Firefox OS  in order to bring data privacy closer to customers, as they put it when they announced the initiative last year.While not as instantly tangible a concept as a privacy phone, itsfurther evidence of privacy concerns filtering downinto business practices  and being used as a point of differentiation to attract customers, asDenelle Dixon-Thayer, Mozillas SVP of business and legal affairs, couched itduring an on stage panel.The session also included Dr Claus Ulmer, group privacy officer for Deutsche Telekom.Thepairsaid the business imperative to come up withprivacy solutions boilsdown to building user trust  and that brand trust has been converting into improved revenues for Deutsche Telekom, said Ulmer.We always try to put the user first, addedDixon-Thayer. Users are fearful about whats happening to their data. Who has access to their data. Whats happening if the entity gets access to the data We need to have those users trust the ecosystem. If we get them to trust the ecosystem were going to generate more interest, more support from them, and were going to get more out of it If users understand the value exchange.. theyre more likely to feel comfortable sharing their data.One area she said Mozilla has been working on ismaking its privacy policies more accessible and intelligible for mobile users  by, for instance, writing them using aninth grade reading modeland usingbullet points to condenseand foreground key points, to offer a digested and accessible summary ahead ofthe full T&Cs. They also actively size policies to fit onsmall mobile screens.Dixon-Thayer said a lot more needs to be done generally in the digital space to get technology users reading and understanding the implications of what theyare agreeing to. She calledfor more creative approaches to engageusers by making privacy policiessimple and interesting enough  perhaps using contextual alerts, or pictures to helpconveythe implications ofdata sharing in a more immediately graspableway.The next step requires more user engagement, she argued. In Firefox OS weve really tried to do something differently. We have created space for privacy policies for all of these different parties in the transactions, and some folks have wanted to include theirs in our OS.Part of it is that I think the challenge is we need to do it more contextually  so its in context for the user, so the user doesnt just agree to something at the outset and then not really understand what that means later. Because thats part of the problem of not engaging them in that value exchange We need to be creative about how we do it. I think alerts by the phone is one way we can do it.Deutsche Telekoms Ulmer saidthe aimof the privacy collaboration with Mozilla is to help users understand whats going on with their device, and also give them more control, so they can influence how or what kind of data is flowing  perhaps via offering varying degrees of data obfuscation.He gave the example of a location blur feature which lets users choose how specifically (or otherwise) they want their location to be transmitted.For what reason does a weather app need to know exactly where you are at this moment? he asked. This solution will offer you the ability to blue your location to a radius of 10km or to a country or have a random solution for that.These are quite intelligent solutions that really help all of us to have a better future in the mobile world. And they also help the companies to sell their products because as long as wehave the trust of the customer well also succeed in the business.The twoboth made the point that more collaboration is needed among players in the digital industry generally to pro-actively work on baking privacy by design into their business processes to avoid therisk of having regulators step in and do it for them.All the participants in it need to be comfortable about being transparent, and today not everybody is  because theyre concerned that if theyre transparent what if their competitors not and then they look like theyre doing something bad when in fact its the industry really doing it, Dixon-Thayer noted.So we need to be better as a group and collectively say this is where we want to go, how can we get ourselves there?Its only going to get worse for all of us to operate in this space if we dont actually take on some self-regulation and do it ourselves, she added.Intels Brian Hernacki, chief architect of its New Devices Group, which includeswearables, was also speaking during the session  and he looked past mobile to considerprivacy in an age of myriad connected devices, which he argued amps up the risks in multiple ways andtherefore requires a new approach.Youve got people who make coffee pots and belt buckles and shoes. They dont live and breathe technology, they dont live and breathe privacy law. They dont necessarily even have a legal department to help them digest the privacy law thats out there. The space itself is also much more prone to sensing, collecting data, he argued, adding:It almost inherently creates more risk.We want the value that comes out of these great devices that collect our information and make recommendations to us And the devices themselves are more challenging; they need to share. They have very tiny little processor, very tiny little memory, very tiny littlebattery,they need to ask that smartphone or that cloud service to help them accomplish the task that you want them to do.At the most basic level, wearables tiny screens clearly arent suited to displaying or otherwise delivering lengthy privacy policies. Some connected devices dont or wont even have screens. So how will IoT devicemakers even be able to meaningfully gain user consent for data processing?There were no clear answers during the session on how to fix that specific issue, butHernacki argued there is a business opportunity at this nascent point in the development of IoT to advocate for privacy by design, and for othersto come along and sell pre-designed, pre-integrated pro-privacy technologies and platforms to the smaller entities who arebuilding connecteddevices.In other words IoT startups could be soldprivacy services and expertise  such astechnologies that automatically encrypt or safely transmit data, to relieveevery OEM in the space from having togo build a TLS stack themselves, whichHernacki asserted is never going to happen.We need to understand that IoT means thousands, or 10,000 OEMs, who are not necessarily deep technical players, who may not have deep legal partners, there has to be an aggregation capability.Someone has to provide pre-designed technologies, so that when somebody goes to build that bracelet or that smart shoe, or that wireless charging IKEA table, then every one of these companies doesnt have to think through and then resolve these problems.There are a lot of OEMs out there without deep resources to really invest individually in this. And the more best practices and core capabilities that we can bring in, pre-integrated platforms to those manufacturers, the better chance we have of covering the market with the kind of privacy-centric design that we want. Were not going to be able to rely on 10,000 OEMs to all do it right, he continued.A lot of the traditional techniques, education, transparency, accountability, choice, are absolutely great beginnings, but theyre not enough. Were going to need more than that.Dont get me wrong, this is still a very hard problem. There are still very challenging technical barriers. But were at the right moment in time to do it. Were well educated to do it. And I think, when I talk to people in the industry, were all motivated to do this well, he added.Theres a great opportunity. A lot of the companies here are looking at building these pre-packaged technologies to enable this explosive growth. To enable the kind of capabilities that we want to see out of wearables and IoT.