Editors note:Christopher Lochhead, Dave Peterson and AlRamadan are co-founding partners at Play Bigger Advisors.Today, the technology industry is caught in alandslide of hype about unicorns the term adopted by many to describe therare class of startup that soars in value to $1 billion ormore. And just liketheir namesake, many tech unicorns will turn out to be fantasies.A unicorn is a fantastical creature that livesin childrens books and cartoons. And as kids grow up, they learn that, justlike Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy,unicorns, are not real.Monarchs, on the other hand, are very real. And thousands of them have builtand ruled over large empires for most of history.A startup with a billion-dollar (or more) valuationthat is not Category King of a clearly defined market is a scary proposition. CategoryKings are the companies that shape our lives andbusinesses while reaping muchof the rewards for doing so. They invent amazing new products and services,while at the same time dominating a big new market.ThinkAmazon.com,Salesforce.com, Facebook and Google. Or newer companies like Uber, GoPro andWorkday. They are Category Kings because they are the companies that arelargely responsible for designing a new market and slaying most of thecompetition along the way.Some unicorns are also Category Kings, but manyare not. And thats where it gets scary. Case in point is the newly publicFitbit. The company just completed a massive initial publicoffering and nowhas a market capitalization of about $6 billion. Some have criticized the factthat the company has revenues of around $745 million and therefore it doesntdeserveits market cap. We dont think thats a problem. The problem is thatFitbit is not a real Category King. Facebook, Workday and GoPro waited untilthey were entrenched CategoryKings to go public.Fitbit operates in the emerging space forfitness trackers. And they are the leader, but (and its a big but) they facemassive competition from companies in adjacent spaces likeGarmin, Jawbone,Samsung, Xiaom and, of course, Apple. Even scarier, Fitbit has not answered theseminal question:Are we in a standalone category or a feature of a bigger category?It could turn out that Apple subsumes fitnesstracker capabilities into the smartwatch or smartphone in much the same wayMicrosoft crushed the word processing, spreadsheet andpresentation softwarecategories when they popularized Microsoft Office. Fionna Agomuoh makes the case in The InternationalBusiness Times that it is already happening.Now, Fitbit is off to a very impressive start.And the fact that they just raised more than $700 million gives them a treasuretrove of gas to fuel their Category King ambition. But their futuresuccess isfar from a lock. It could turn out that the whole category goes away. Tim Mullaney of MarketWatch throws Fitbit and its market under the bus. For Fitbit to win they must prove to customers that they solve aproblem thatencroaching smartwatch and smartphone players cant. And rightnow, thats looking like a tough argument to make.GoPro is different. They have proven thatpoint of view cameras are different from traditional camera and smartphonemakers. Customers seem to believe them. As a result, GoProhas created a muchmore defendable kingdom than Fitbit. They enjoy typical Category Kingeconomics. Researcher IDC pegs GoPros U.S. market share at 72.5 percent,and they have a market cap of $8 billion.Apple understands this category firststrategy possibly better than any other company. When CEO Steve Jobs took thestage to unveil the iPad, he showed a picture of an iPhoneand iMac while asking,Is there room for a third category of device in the middle? He went on tosay there had to be a place in our lives for a device that is so muchmore intimatethan a laptop and so much more capable than a smartphone. Hewas making the case that the iPad met a different need than the other devices.With that, he showed the first iPad, declaring, iPadcreates and defines anentirely newcategoryof devices that will connect users with their apps and content ina much moreintimate, intuitive and fun way than ever before. Turns out, he gotthe world to believe what he believed. Last quarter Apple gained $5.43 billionfrom iPad shipments alone.To become a long-term success, startupcompanies not only have to pioneer and dominate new markets, they have toensure that adjacent products from nearby categories dontovertake them.So, while the technology industry continues itsobsession with unicorns, we believe the wise entrepreneurs, executives andinvestors will focus on building and investing in CategoryKings that buildnew, strong, standalone markets.Unicorns are the result of a financing outcome.Category Kings are the result of a market outcome. One has the dominating positionin a new category that matters. The other made acompelling case to investors.And those two things are not the same.