Theres an expression in venture capital. Its called the Oh, shit board meeting. Thats when you learn all sorts of things that you wish youd known after writing a company that first check, says general partner David Hornik of August Capital.Its easy to imagine that theyve been happening regularly across the startup industry. The pace of funding in recent years has been feverish, giving investors less time than ever toassess the startups theyre funding. That once-celebrated companies like the blood testing outfit Theranos, and the wireless charging company uBeam, are seemingly fighting for their lives raises plenty of questions, too.A recent Vanity Fair piece blamed Silicon Valley media (and TechCrunch in particular) for the rise of certain companies. Meanwhile, a story published earlier this week in Fast Company suggested a culture of spin is at the root of the problem. As one founder told the outlet, Being honest in Silicon Valley is like being the one member of an Olympic team that isnt on steroids.Of course, none of us would likely have heard of Theranos or uBeam if not for investors, whove given the companies $686 million and $25 million, respectively. Were these backers overly optimistic? Did they get duped? Were they even paying attention? Its easy to wag our fingers aswe wait to see how these narratives unfold, but heres the truth: due diligence only goes so far.While some may think it ascientific process that insulates venture firms from bad investments, due diligence isa surprisinglyimperfect process with plenty of limitations.If youre looking for a black or white answer in doing diligence, itll be a fail, says Matt Murphy, a former Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers partner who joined Menlo Ventures a year ago as a managing director. Youre usually dealing with shades of gray.The truth will set you freeAs you might imagine, due diligence means different things, depending on the sector in which a startup is operating and the stage of its development. At the outset, say VCs, it usually involves some combination of gut instinct, research into the market opportunity (when theres a market to research), and, done properly, lots of calls about the founder whos pitching them.The challenge you have when its early days is an entrepreneur with nothing to sell but vision, says Bob Ackerman, the founder and managing director of Allegis Capital.Typically, VCs are handed references, and those are easy enough. Youre usually introduced to a set of people whove worked with the entrepreneur, and you have that set of calls and they go well, because the entrepreneur has steered you to those people, says Hornik.If a VC is really doing his or her homework, that person will then find former colleagues of the founder who arent on their list of referrals.Even then, some reading between the lines is required. The natural inclination of people is say perfectly nice things, even when someone hasnt done a good job, says Hornik. When someone tells me that someone did a great job, and that they were a good leader, thats a bad reference. A good reference is, This person is amazing. I would work with her again in a heartbeat. Thats what you want.The same is true of customer callslater in a startups trajectory. Naturally, VCs are given the names of customers who are predisposed to like the company. But you have to find off references, says Murphy of Menlo Ventures. If the potential buyer is a chief security officer, then you talk with some CSOs who the company hasnt spoken with and you explain the product and the pain point and you ask if they would take a meeting or, sometimes, whether theres another competitor that they are working with.Due diligence looks different depending on the opportunity, too. Jonathan Abrams, the founder of social news aggregator Nuzzel, is a limited partner in the funds of Data Collective, a San Francisco-based venture firm that prides itself on making wide-ranging bets, from satellites to antiviral therapeutics. Abramsnotes that, as with many firms, Data Collective has advisors who are PhDs in numerous specialties to help them with due diligence around products the partners might not understand as well.If youre investing in the next Snapchat or Slack, many VCs might feel confident investing on their own, says Abrams. When youre investing in something thats harder to understand, thats less likely to happen.Just the facts, maamThats not to say that VCs couldnt be doing a better job. For example, its easy for investors to lose touch with whats happening, especially when theyre funding more mature startups,sit on a large number of boards, and/ordont feel the need to keep close tabs on things.(One founder who asked not to be named calls oneof his follow-on investors a good-time Charlie, implying the firm doesnt do a whole lot for the company.)Even board members who are engaged can be deceived in tough times. Its no problem for entrepreneurs to mislead you when youre on the board, says Hornik. Where [you] find out that a CFO has been lying or someone has stealing, you sort of say, What could I have done? But the reality is that as a board member, you arent auditing the company. The best thing you can do is have a close relationship with people throughout the company, so you can hear whats going on from a range of sources. If you dont, it increases the likelihood that you can be vaguely misled.VCs can also perform too much due diligence, apparently. You can overdo it, says Murphy. You can talk yourself out of a lot of things by talking with the right or wrong people. Its easy to wobble between calls. A lot of this stuff is a leap of faith, which is what makes this business so damn hard.You can understand VCs wanting to avoid investing in the next Theranos,agreesAbrams, who has raised millions of dollars from VCs across four companiesand has personally invested in roughly 50 startups. But getting too risk averse isnt good either. Sometimes, companies where there are red flags in the beginning end up producing the largestwins. Uber is a prime example, he notes.Yet the biggest sin committed by investorsis simply relying too heavily on their peers reputations as a form of due diligence. (It is not.)Clinklea payments company whose $25 million seed round in 2013 was billed as the largest in Silicon Valley history  is perhaps the highest-profile example of this type of misguided thinking. Its syndicate included Accel Partners, Andreessen Horowitz, Intel and Intuit, along with more than a dozen tech celebrities, including Peter ThielandMarcBenioff. The companys product never reached the market. Instead, by the spring of last year, Clinklehad largely imploded.TheWSJ has similarlysuggested it was the endorsement of DFJ,which has backed Space X, Tesla Motors, and Planet Labs, and that wrote Theranos its first check,that attracted further investment to the company. Star power seemingly attractedstar power to uBeam, too. Its backers include billionaire Mark Cuban, Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer, Peter Thiels Founders Fund and Andreessen Horowitz.I dont think [founders] are necessarily trying to mislead anyone, says Ackerman. But theyborrow credibility from others  their advisors, their directors knowingif they borrow that stature, it will make it easier for them to fundraise. You especially see that behavior become pronounced when the money is flowing.Ive been surprised how some investors will oftentimes just go in behind a big brand, like, Hey, if this is KP and Sequoia, and [the deal includes] this partner and this sector, we need to move quickly, says Murphy, who insists that smart VCs know better.If there was a blind spot you could have checked out [and didnt], then shame on you, he adds.Three sides to every storyOf course, venture investing is based on taking risks. It means making bets on technologies in a world thats changing faster than ever. Aside from the obvious challengesaround fraud and founders who inflate their abilities, theres always a danger that a companys technology will check out on paper but not survive in the marketplace for one reason or another.Environments change. People change, says Ryan Sarver, a former product director at Twitter who joined Redpoint Ventures two-and-a-half years ago as a partner. After you invest, things sometimes change that you couldnt have predicted.It happened to Ackerman, he says. A bunch of years ago, we invested in a technology out of Stanford, and based on our review and the developers of the tech and what was going on in the marketplace, we viewed it as really disruptive.What Ackerman says he didnt understand was how much of the fundamental science was left to be proven. We were doing groundbreaking stuff, and we werent as close to the end of the process as we collectively thought we were. We started making assumptions about where the problems were going to be, and we realized there were a lot more problems to be resolved than wed anticipated.In the end, says Ackerman, the product missed its window.He regrets that, but he doesnt beat himself up about it, either. Its the nature of the beast.There was no real road map. We thought we were at Y but we were at X. Im not sure there was another way to discover that.