
Josh Seides is a high school senior, founder of Technocademy, and business contributor to Yahoo, Entrepreneur, and Fast Company. Facebook, Google, Yahoo  the pillars of the social revolution were all started by college students in their dorms. This was 10, 20 years ago. In the past decade, the proliferation of youth-centric startups prevails and even flourishes. A constantly increasing 54 percent of millennials desire to start a business, according to the Kauffman Foundation, and the number of new business owners under 34 increases by more than 300,000 each month.The last six months has witnessed the blossoming of dozens of multi-million dollar startups from college students  some remaining in school and some delaying  including Snapchats rise to 400 million snaps per day with a $19 billion valuation and Dropboxs now $257 million in funding and 400million users.These trends have translated into backlash against the restraints posed by demanding schoolwork and college life, leading to programs like the Thiel Fellowship and Breakout Labs scorning the broken education system and developing well-funded college dropouts. Jonathan Cain, President of Thiel Foundation, claims only 7 percent of fellows (of 80) have returned to college, while the rest have generated more than $100 million in economic activity. But is it really worth it? Are schools actually toxic death spells for hopeful entrepreneurs?It seems fitting to first look into where all these college CEOs come from  elementary through high school. From 2012 to 2013, a survey indicated schools offering entrepreneurial classes dropped from 58.4 percent to 46.9 percent. Even more foundational, classes on money dropped from 65.5percent to 55.3 percent in just a single year.Fewer andfewer youth are exposed to the core of business and lose track from the start. In a survey of 40 entrepreneurial education leaders in different states, 90percent claimed colleges offer entrepreneurship education, while only 24.3 percent responded that teachers in high school are expected to include entrepreneurship in the curriculum.This can be traced to the lack of computer science  the core of modern entrepreneurship  in schools. Only 5 percent of U.S. high schools offer AP computer science, and only 27 states actually allow computer science to count toward high school graduation. Not only does this inherently strain entrepreneurship, but this bars most students from forming an interest in keeping up with trends and problems in the tech world  crucial for any modern startup, especially youth-centric.How can schools bring in entrepreneurship if they cant even teach computer science? These two are complements, and without either one the entrepreneurial development of students is gravely hindered. But schools arent picking up on this. It isnt until college when a majority of students have the opportunity to learn computer science, stay up to date with trends and start experimenting with business.iCracked startedwhen AJ Forsythe found his cracked iPhone screen frustrating. At the time, he was still a student at Cal Poly. With revenues north of $25.2 million, 2,400 iTech repairers worldwide and +25percent revenue growth each month, the startup has become a giant in iOS repair (to Apples dismay), fixing iPhones, iPads and iPods at consumers desired locations for flat prices.The school social environment actually seemed to help Forsythe. He used his fraternity to acquire initial customers, found his first $10,000 investment from a peer and brought on a crucial lead designer from among his classmates to spark the business. With classes on computer science and business that sparked his interest, Forsythe was able to capitalize on Cal Polys social atmosphere and its entrepreneurial exposure. Now his work nets the company more than $1 million a month.HourlyNerd began as a class project in Harvard Business Schools Field III course. Devising a way to pair MBA students with small businesses for hourly consulting, the project quickly grew into a company with more than 10,000 independent consultants and more than $12.5 million in funding, notably $450K from Shark Tanks Mark Cuban and a $7.8 million Series B funding fromfive investors last February. With customers including Microsoft, GE and Coca-Cola already, HourlyNerd is growing fast. Without the exposure for business case studying and similarly minded peers in HBS, co-founder Rob Biederman and others would not have the connections or expertise to scale. With more than 4,000 MBAs from 15 top business schools, HourlyNerd actually benefitted from college education and continuing onto graduation.FlightCar started as a written-off idea by incoming college freshman Rujul Zaparde. He was set to attend Harvard in the fall of 2012. Creating a platform for travelers to renttheir cars and earn money in the process, FlightCar hasmore than160 employees servingmore than90,000 members. The company raised $22 million in venture capital and continues to experience +20 percent monthly growth rate in membership.While two of the co-founders dropped out of Ivy League schools and another from MIT, they all saw college as the back-up plan  a fallback in case the business didnt work out. While seemingly the classic case of a successful college dropout startup, FlightCar exhibits the very power of college education: some use it, stay in college and build a social following for their business, while others simply take what theyve learned or the sheer comfort of knowing college is a fallback option and scale rapidly.Either way, none of these three very successful and lucrative businesses would be where they are now without the education, social network and startup exposure colleges naturally offer.Indeed, K-12 schools have much learning to do.An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the current number of Dropbox users.