
Mike Hoefflinger is an Executive-in-Residence at XSeed Capital and was previously at Facebook and Intel. In-home video entertainment is a very big deal. $381 billion globally in 2019 big. About $100 billion in North America big. Triple the revenue of apps and games big.No wonder, then, that it wont get re-worked as easily or quickly as music did. The TV conglomerates are sticking to their packaged guns, forcing any potential providers of so-called skinny bundles (just the channels most of us care about delivered over-the-top) to take all their channels, not just select ones.McKinsey Global Media Report, October 2015But the sheer scale of videos business opportunity is also why Applesgiving up  for now  on the skinny bundle is not the end of the story. After all, Marshall McLuhan foretold this change in 1962s The Gutenberg Galaxy: The next medium, whatever it is will include television as its content, not as its environment.The skinny bundle will happen, but it wont be very skinny and it wont feel like a bundle.Say hello to the $99 jukebot.Why so much talk about skinny bundles?For tens of millions in the U.S. alone, our video entertainment is spread across as many as five different apps on at least two different hardware ecosystems and costs us about $120-140 per month:There is no single interface to discover across all this content. Its like the web before search.Barbaric.We can significantly improve the usability of all this and wring some efficiencies out of the distributed pricing.We dont know  and dont care  which studio made Superbad, which record label Drake is on or who published Harry Potters eighth book. TV networks and SVOD providers are much the same: We care about the show we want to eye-guzzle and the shows wed enjoy watching but arent yet  not whether theyre on NBC, AMC, HBO or Netflix. Anything that shrinks the distance between us and those shows will be rapidly embraced.But, with 409 scripted TV series in 2015 alone (double the count of only five years earlier), we have a problem: Theres too much television on television and interfaces like the gridded guides, search or even stores ( la Apple iTunes and Google Play) are not getting it done for discovery any longer.If we bring the content from all these sources into one celestial jukebox and replace the current methods of discovery with a personal shopper with a messaging/GUI mechanic, we have a jukebot.With the vast majority of what youre interested in finally under one interface roof, the old ways will be superseded by something that will feel more like a back-and-forth conversation with a friend  supported by all available data from the likes of IMDb, Rotten Tomatoes, Facebook and Twitter  with seamless cloud-based, time-shifting, ad-skipping technology underneath it all.This bot for your television jukebox wont just be easier to use, itll be less expensive, too. Heres how the likes of Apple, Google, Sony (whose Vue service has made some of the most headway on this front) and possibly Amazon could go shopping to aggregate the content  and related live and on-demand rights  for $99:That $30 monthly savings is enough to pay for things like your iPhone subscription, creating a better-and-cheaper service that will sell easily to the first 20-30 million consumers, with some segmentation and tiering to 50 million  which would mark a cross-over in subscriptions from MVPDs to SVOD. When that happens  as weve seen so many times in technology  the new normal will only gain further velocity.If things go the way of the $99 jukebot, heres some tea-leaf readings for the various players:The $99 jukebot is the alternative consumers deserve. Whoever gets there first moves themselves into the center of the most interesting and lucrative content business. Welcome, king.