
Elisa Schreiber is the marketing partner at Greylock Partners and the producer of the Greymatter video series.Mitchell Baker is Mozilla Chairwoman. John Lilly is a partner at Greylock Partners and former Mozilla CEOIts easy to forget how powerful Microsoft was only fifteen years ago. In 2000, Microsofthad 97% market share of its operating system in computersand, at its peak in 2004, Internet Explorer reached 95% market share of web browsers. It became clear that the possibilities of the web were being funneled through that company remembers Mozilla Chairwoman Mitchell Baker.While Internet Explorer market share continued to rise, Baker, along with a small group of early Mozillians, felt web innovation was slowing down, and the possibilitiesof the Internet needed to be opened. Knowing they could never competehead-to-head with the tech giant,the Mozillateam conceptualized a more robust and user-friendly browsing experience that leveraged ancommunity ofopen-sourcecontributors that was largerand more diversethan any one companycould possibly hire internally. We thought a lot about how to compete, recalls John Lilly,former CEOof Mozilla and current partner at Greylock.In pre-GitHub times, the idea of open source was not widespread.It wasfor just developers and geeks, not the average consumer. However, the release of the open source Mozilla 1.0 browser suite in 2002 (and later Firefox in 2004) galvanized a lot of energy in people. Mozilla spawned a global community of people who were passionate about the idea of free software thatalsoenabled more choice and flexibility in how people use the Internet. Lillysaw open source as an intoxicating idea because anyone in the world can saywhatever they want, debate it out and, if it works, thesoftware changes and its distributed totons and tons of people.Theambitiousmission and worldwide collaboration became key to enabling Mozilla to compete with Microsoft. In just a year after release, Firefox was downloaded more than 100 million times, largely because the browser introduced features users wanted like anti-phishing, an integrated pop-up blocker, and tabbed browsing. Microsoft didnt debut a competitive version of Internet Explorer until IE7 in 2006, their first major update in over five years. They didnt know what to make of us until we were big, contends Lilly. By the time we were at 7-8% [of web browser market share], it was already finished.Firefox is now used by half a billion people around the world and approximately 40% of its code is written by their global volunteer community.