
Emily Calandrelli is a producer and the host of FOX's Xploration Outer Space.This article is Part 1 of a 3-part series.Twenty years ago less than one percent of the world was connected to the internet. In 2015, roughly fortypercent of the global population can log on to the World Wide Web. For these people, the internet hasbecome an essential medium for business development, communication, education, and innovation.The UN has even declared internet access a basic human right.Unfortunately, this right is not afforded to everyone.Today, more than four billion people are left indigital darkness. High infrastructure costs, and cultural and language barriers make providing internetaccess to remote and rural areas complicated.In just the past few years, however, corporate giants and individual entrepreneurs have invested bigmoney to change this. Most of these efforts have focused on providing access to remote locationswhere traditional internet strategies are cost prohibitive.The company formerly known as Google, for example, is tackling this challenge with balloons and drones.Through Project Loon, Alphabet is perfecting high altitude balloons whichare designed to be launched as a fleet and float around 60,000 feet, well above commercial air traffic,for more than one hundred days. Successful trials have been done in Australia, Chile, New Zealand andBrazil. Commercial services are projected to start as early as next year.Through Titan Aerospace, which Google acquired in 2014, Alphabet hopes to provide internet usingsolar powered drones flying in the stratosphere (around the same altitude at Google Loon balloons). Arecent crash this May poses a setback for this strategy, but a spokesperson for the venture has saidthat they remain optimistic about the potential of solar-powered planes to help deliver connectivity.Facebook, who attempted to buy Titan Aerospace before Google placed a higher bid, ultimatelyacquired the competing high-altitude drone company, Ascenta.This purchase is part of FacebooksConnectivity Lab which is a team that works to identify new technologies to connect the world. This isrelated, but different than Facebooks Internet.org which offers free internet content in communitiesthat do have internet access, but users cant afford it. This latest Connectivity effort led to thedevelopment of a new drone theyve named Aquila (Latin for eagle), which was completed in July andready for flight testing.While the race to provide internet to remote locations is well underway, other, more ambitious playershave their sights set on making broadband internet available to the entire planet.[Broadband: Refers to high speed internet. Internet speed is measured in Mbps (megabits per second).The Federal Communications Commission has defined broadband within the US as 25 Mbps minimumdownload speed and 3 Mbps minimum upload speed.]OneWeb, backed by Richard Branson, and Elon Musks SpaceX both plan to provide broadband internetto the world through low orbiting satellites. If they succeed, they could bring the remaining two thirds ofthe Earth online, changing economies on local, national, and global levels.The Challenge of Connecting the WorldCurrently, companies provide internet service using technology that can be thought of in three separate categories:ground-based, air-based, and space-based.Ground-based networks are created with physical cables such as those used by cable servicenetworks(Cable network), telephone networks (Digital Subscriber Line or DSL), fiber optic cables (Fiber network),or wireless communication transmitted by towers (Long Term Evolution or LTE). Most people todayreceive internet through one or more of these ground-based networks.Extending these strategies to other parts of the world can be difficult. Many communities dont haveanyone to put up enough capital to build the necessary infrastructure. The problem becomes worse inlow density communities where the cost per user drastically increases.These remote locations may bebetter serviced by air-based strategies like stratosphere flying balloons or drones. But even these air-based strategies cant be used to cover the whole world due to relatively short flying times (on the orderof months) and air space regulation issues.Connecting the entire planet with one network is a job for a space-based strategy, specifically in LowEarth Orbit (also known as LEO, which is the space between 100 miles and 1,200 miles above the surfaceof the Earth).There are currently companies providing internet access with space-based strategies, likeViaSat, but they place a small number of satellites in a higher orbit known as Geosynchronous Orbit (alsoknown as GEO, which is the space that exists about 22,000 miles above the surface of the Earth), andthey dont provide it to globally. ViaSat, for example, has three satellites and only covers the US andCanada.The benefit of placing an internet-providing satellite in GEO is that you can cover more of the Earth withfewer satellites. But it also costs more to send a satellite 22,000 miles up than it does to send it 1,200miles up in LEO. And because GEO is farther away, you have more latency issues.[Latency: The time delay for a data packet to transfer from a source to a destination. For example, thetime it takes for data to be sent from a satellite to the end user.]So to overcome these issues, a company will need to place hundreds of satellites into LEO. Butdeveloping satellites in bulk is not the way the space industry works. Companies typically design andbuild one highly customized (and highly expensive) satellite and find a highly coveted (and highlyexpensive) spot on a rocket launch to get it to the right orbit. Manufacturing hundreds of satellites andlaunching all of them is no trivial task.Talk about high infrastructure costs.However, with this in place, a company could provide low-latency broadband speed internet to anyonein the world with the right ground network. Thats a nice goal to work toward.Failures of the PastConnecting the planet in this way is no easy business and OneWeb and SpaceX arent the first to try.The most notable venture was Teledesic which also planned to provide worldwide broadband internetvia satellites in low Earth orbit (LEO). Teledesic, founded in the 1990s and backed by Bill Gates, startedwith ambitious plans for a $9 billion 840-satellite constellation  more than the total number ofsatellites in space at that time. Unfortunately, during that same decade the telecommunicationsindustry was essentially imploding.Two companies founded in the 90s, Iridium and Globalstar, launched 66-satellite and 48-satellite LEOconstellations respectively in order to provide satellite phone and low-speed data connections. Bothcompanies went bankrupt in the process.Failed market expectations and bankruptcy filings from satellite-driven telecommunication companiesforced Teledesic to scale back and eventually halt satellite construction all together.So why are companies trying again now?For one, satellite technology has gotten both smaller and cheaper. OneWebs satellites are said to be150kg whereas Teledesics satellites were 800 kg. Lighter satellites lend to cheaper launch costs, whichcertainly help.And two, theres a big prize for the ultimate winner(s). As OneWebs CEO Greg Wyler has said, We aresolving a big problem for emerging markets, which is literally half the world, and the other half isconnected only intermittently. Thats what these people are fighting for  the ability to provide a newor better internet service to the entire world.But more than anything, this is a business challenge, not a technological one. Both OneWeb and SpaceXwill need to raise billions of dollars and create strategic partnerships with governments andcommunities around the world in order to succeed where others have failed.