Messaging apps like WhatsApp and WeChat havebecomethe platform giants ofrecent years, scaling huge user bases powered by the momentum of network effects. But might there be another location on thesmartphone thats potentenough foran app totransformintoaplatform in its own right?Barcelona-based startup Thingthing reckons there is. And their bet is thatits the Qwerty keys that live under smartphone users fingertips that could bethe next big thing on mobile.Thingthing has built aniOSkeyboard app focused on amping up user productivity by decreasing the amount of app switching usershave todo by loading productivity-focused additionalfunctionality into thekeyboard  just tap on one of thecommand keys above the Qwerty keysto summon your camera roll, or a stack of trending GIFs, or a list of your recentDropbox files, or a multi-day view ofyour calendar, and so on. Theselect slice ofdatais displayed inthe place where the keyboard was just before you hit the icon.Third party accounts that can be linked to Thingthings keyboardat this point include Dropbox, Box, Google Drive, Facebook, Instagram, Flickr, Pocket and Todoist. The app can also be connected to your phonescamera rolland calendar. And of course, as must be the case for any self-respecting keyboard app, theres an icon to shortcut to youremoji  andemoji suggestionsbuilt into the keyboardsnext word prediction tech.With linked third party apps/services Thingthing isplugging into the relevantAPIs to support the particular functionality being offered  such as, for example,the ability to view and share files from your Google Drive. Its also thinking a lot about designing theoptions itoffers users. Its not pulling everything into such a tiny space; just what it thinks someone with something to type quickly reallyneeds to see/grab. Plantedubs these contextual actions.Examples include the ability to select and paste a photo into the message youre typing. Or to select and send a fewpossible calendar dates.The core idea here isto allow the user togain swifter access to information siloed away in a third party service at the moment they are tapping out a message  and without needing to tap away to that other app to speed up relatedcommunications, whether someone istrying to arrange a meeting via email. Or chattingwith friends on WhatsApp.A few taps on the Thingthing keyboard and you can grab the right calendar dates orfire aphoto right into your chat without needing to tap away from whatever messaging app you were using.Whats really interesting here is thatthe keyboard cuts across differentservices, and cantherefore act as the connective tissuelinkingmultiple services doing away with the need forusers to visit another app directly for simple use-cases (like grabbing a file).And while a keyboardmight not appear, at first pass, to have the massive networkpullof a social or messaging giant, theres a clear sub-set of pro-users who will appreciate the immediate productivity gains in the short term. And potentially a wider audiencebeyond that  if even more compelling short-cuts can be loaded right into the keyboard in future, as Thingthing is hinting will beitsdirection of travel.Its not the only one zeroing in on keyboard apps as a potential platform either  witness Microsoft with its productivity services focused push, as just one other example.Thingthing is today announcing its closed a350,000 ($400k) seed round, led bySimile Venture Partners. Other investors in the round include Saatchinvest, Pioneers Ventures, Seedcamp, plussome business angels.Its also talking about having securedpartnerships with leading brands although its not specifying exactly who or what those partnerships entail at this point. More details will be shared on this in the comingyear, co-founder and CEO Olivier Plante tells TechCrunch. An Android version of the keyboard is also in the works.Theyve seen the opportunity in a keyboard being a platform, says Plante of Thingthings investors.Being somethingtransversal everywhere, that can provide much more than just productivity tools.Commenting on the funding in a statement, Tatiana Kim, managing partner at Simile Venture Partners added: Mobile has become the primary channel of communication and messaging is an essential part of our user experience. Thingthing is tackling a problem of efficiency in users interaction in a novel and intelligent way. We appreciate that the team is focused on user-centered design, has clear vision of development strategy and ambition for global coverage.Of the six brand partnerships Plantesays that some are leaders in productivity and others are leaders in services.Were working on something where the vision is just type  so where people only type and while theyre typing they can access other services, he continues. This is something that we call contextual information. So depending on the context you can access services that go beyond just productivity.Facebook is trying to do something around messaging around these lines butwe believe that the keyboard is extending everything, he adds.TechCrunchlast covered Thingthingback in September, soon after it had launched the first version of its app  which did not initially include anactualQwerty keyboard, requiring users to toggle to use the native iOS keyboard (or another keyboard app of their choice). At the time we lauded the clean design and the strength of the core idea.Since then therather large missing piece thathas been locked down by Thingthing isan actual keyboard of its own, with the teambuilding next word prediction tech (currently just for English), and usingpublic data sources such as Twitter and Reddit to train its learning algorithms, according toPlante.We builtour own keyboard, with our own algorithms, he says. We built that from scratch. And at the speed were going were at the level where  SwiftKey did something in eight years, we can do what SwiftKey did in about three years and a half.The algorithm was built by our CTO who has been doing work around machine learning and AI. He was able to in opposite to what SwiftKey has built  because SwiftKey needs your data to be really intelligent, so the more your connect things the more it is intelligent, we were able to create a machine learning AI from public data.At this early stage Plante says Thingthing has around 20,000 monthly active users. People have typed a lot of words! he adds, estimating it at between three to four million words at this point. This is an aggregated data. Pure analytics. We dont see any words, we just infer.A compact,three-day on-screen calendar viewis a newfeature inthe latest update to the app, plugging in a useful, at-a-glance overview of your availability for the currentand two following days.Flick a finger back or forth to go back in time to check where you were, or scroll further into the future week. Want to suggest three possible appointment slots for a meeting? Tap on the times on the relevant day/s and then hit the transfer button that pops up at the bottom corneras slots are selected and the graphical data wings into the message you were typing  but now in text form, specifying the day, date, time and timezone. Truly delightful design.Thingthing will be working next on ways to simplifying sharing group meeting info via the calendar, according toPlante.Were going to create experiences that are solving complex problems. Not life threatening problems but things that help. And where Thingthing becomes the hub of everything  you can do so much more stuff with this, he adds.With third party keyboard appsthere can of course be very sizableprivacy concerns, given how much data a user ispotentially handing over to anoutside entitywhen they agree to grant them full access. And Thingthing is also asking for access to a raft of additional services  so there are potentially hugely magnified privacy concerns here. AndPlante knows it. Which is why hestresses privacy by design asa core principle for the team, noting, for example, that ThingThing stores all data relating to users locally, on their device (in the shell app), not on its servers.That said, whatever additional data partnerships Thingthing is cooking up to power its future services push may, inevitably, clash with aprivacy firstethos. Or at very least open up some fresh privacy concerns, depending on the entities that are being plugged into the keyboard and how Thingthinggoes about informing users about theprivacy trade-offs they might be making as they type.We dont rely on your private data for now, and if we rely on it in the future its because theres really a reason for it  it will be better for you as a user, is howPlante squares this future circle.