Once upon a time, a photo of something was enough to believe it was real. Sure, youd have to deal with the occasional Big Foot hoax, but for the most part, those who had the time or talent to create believable fakes were in the minority.Then came the age of Photoshop. Edits and fakes are prolific enough that FAKE! has become the default; a dubious photo is presumed fake unless proven otherwise.Were not quite to that point with video. Fake videos exist in droves, obviously, but editing a video to be something its not introduces a bevy of challenges not found in the editing of a single still frame, and generally requires considerably more time and talent to do right. People will still yell FAKE! but itll be a quieter yell. As your Facebook feed probably proves, moderately well-faked videos have a much easier time finding believers.That might not be the case for long.The video up top shows a work-in-progress system called Face2Face (research paper here) being built by researchers at Stanford, the Max Planck Institute and the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg.The short version: take a YouTube video of someone speaking like, say, George W. Bush. Use a standard RGB webcam to capture a video of someone else emoting and saying something entirely different. Throw both videos into the Face2Face system and, bam, youve now got a relatively believable video of George W. Bushs face  now almost entirely synthesized  doing whatever the actor in the second video wanted the targets face to do. It even tries to work out what the interior of their mouth should look like as theyre speaking.Its not pixel-perfect yet  even in the relatively low-res clips were shown, theres an uncanny valley effect of something being not quite right. But hot damn is it impressive (and, well, more than a little spooky) even in this early stage.Why spooky? Technology like this will serve to make video less inherently believable. The videos use of politicians as the editing target is pretty self-aware. In that regard, political hoaxes will hit a lot harder when its a video instead of a shopped picture being forwarded around.Dont freak out too hard, though. Hoaxes have existed in every medium throughout history. This tech isnt widely available beyond its researchers just yet; the uncanny valley challenges in stepping from somethings-kinda-off to pixel-perfect infallibility arent small ones. Just remember that, just like photos before it, being on video doesnt mean its real  and that gets a lil bit truer each day.