For better or worse, Twitter is the home to a lot of harebrained ideas. Onegreat example of thatis the @TweetXstitch account, which creates framed representationsof some of the dumbest, funniest and most memorable moments at Twitter, taking ephemeral tweets and immortalizingthem through the medium of needle and thread.The account started, asso many other silly things, with Kanye West. The hip hop artist hadthe world in stitches with his oh-so-very-pointed butt stuff tweet storm at the beginning of the year. What started as a one-off joke by twin sistersKathryn Rodger and Charlotte Braddick turned into an ongoing campaign to find sharp tweets worth remembering and turning them into cross-stitches.There is a thread running through the immortalized tweets; they are mostly nuggets of throw-away wisdom that would normally be forgotten rather than sown into the fabric of our collective minds.Classics include this bit of nutritional advicefrom rapper T-Pain:Night of heavy drinking? Eat a slice of cheese after every drink. The constipation will prevent the beer shits in the morning. Youre welcome T-Pain (@TPAIN) February 18, 2016One particularly insightful interpretation of the messages from the godsfrom party king Andrew WK:PARTY TIP: A hangover is just the Party God's way of telling you how awesome you were last night. ANDREW W.K. (@AndrewWK) February 26, 2013Where the account goes from the haha funny to the downright hilarious, however, is when the people whove been cross-stitched insert themselves into the loopwith retweets or replies.Some of you may remember, for example, when the English MP Ed Balls joined Twitter, he did so with great aplomb, tweeting only his own name. The clumsy move was first met with derision and jokes, but ultimately, it weaseled its way into the hearts of the population.The tweet became an epic meme, with national newspapers in the U.K. calling it Ed Balls day  even celebrating its third and fourth anniversaries with news stories.Ed Balls Ed Balls (@edballs) April 28, 2011The London and Cardiff-based team behind TweetXstitchmade a cross-stitch of the famous tweet.Which, in turn, was picked up by the Member of Parliament, who shared it with his followers.Got to say @tweetXstitch this is one of the more surreal 'anniversary' tweets of 'that tweet' I've seen.. https://t.co/O4gmMrDDsU Ed Balls (@edballs) April 3, 2016Absolutely brilliant, and well worth giving the account a follow to keep abreast of their antics.Accounts like TweetXstitch area reminder of the weird and wonderful things that are happening on Twitter, every day; it keeps the social network fresh and interesting. Long may theircreativity continue.