Twitter isdoing whatever it can to help its live video streaming acquisition Periscopebeat independent competitor Meerkat. Multiple sources tell TechCrunch that Twitter has been contacting celebrities who use Meerkat, trying to convince them Meerkat isdying and that they should use Periscope instead.Sources also say Twitter has been in touch withmedia companies thatuse Meerkat, going so far as to imply that if they dont exclusively use Periscope, it couldcut off their access to Amplify. Amplify, in short, is Twitters answer to commercial TV: its a product that pairs media companies withbrands to create promoted tweets based aroundvideo clips, giving aboost of reachboth to the media company and the brand sponsoring it.But Twitter is not the only one trying to catchstars, it seems. One source tells usthat Meerkat has been tapping celebrities from Vine, a Twitter-owned app,to get them to broadcast on Meerkat. Meerkat disputes this (see update, below). Many Vine stars already broadcast on YouNow, another competing live broadcasting app. And Meerkat also managed to bag a big exclusive with Madonna, albeit with some hiccups.The moves by Twitter highlight not just theacute competition between the two apps  which are much more alike than they are different  butalso Twitters push to position itself as a broadcasting platform, with the coveted content and audience that come with that.We have contacted Twitter and Meerkat for a comment for this story and will update as we learn more.Twitter CEO Dick Costolo and Twitter investor Chris Sacca aresaid to have contactedhigh-profile public figures after they broadcast on Meerkat, claiming Periscope has broader reach and a better app. Twitters celebrity outreach team is also said to have gotten involved on behalf of Periscope in what our sources describe as very aggressive tactics.Periscope is taking off with celebrities and performersTwitter hounds every celebrity after they try Meerkat.Almost to the point of stalking, a source said, adding that its leading to some tension internally as well.Twitter is absolutely obsessed with Meerkat.They talk about it all the time to the point that the Periscope employees and founders are angry.Meerkat unwittingly built its initial live streaming app on top of Twitters social graph, communication, and distribution systems, not knowing Twitter had acquired fellow live streaming app Periscope months earlier.Meerkat gained early traction and mindshare amongst the startupcommunity. But to break into the mainstream and pick up real critical mass with consumers, social media products often need very popular people to spread their apps to their fans.AfterTwitter confirmed its acquisition of Periscope, sources say it began contacting celebrities asking them to wait until Periscope launched to choose which live streaming app they would use. Then, with just a few hours notice, Twitter cut off Meerkats access to Twitters social graph. This makesit farless seamless to follow Twitter contacts on Meerkat, although users can still share links to Meerkat streams on Twitter.Much like Twitters recent move to cut off firehose partners DataSift and NTT becauseTwitterwants to make a bigger move to work directly with data companies, Twitters move to axeMeerkat access in light ofPeriscope is not too much of a surprise.But apart from looking a bit likea big bully in its anti-Meerkat tactics, it remains to be seen whetherTwitter can stave off competition by directly lobbying against rivals  especially since there are other competitors already out there, and more likely to come. Weve heard, for one, that Yahoo is looking at how it could potentially develop a product in the area of live video streaming.In the end, the app thats capturing and building its audience best will win, and the jury is out on whether either of these will be the winner at the end of the day (plenty of growing pains at both, btw). Currently, Periscope is ranked number 165 of among all apps in the U.S. and 22 among social apps according to App Annie, while Meerkat is 120 amongst social apps and was last pegged at 1142 in the overall chart.Live streaming could be big, but clearly Twitter doesnt think theres enough room for both Periscope and Meerkat. Reports of Meerkats death have been exagerated, but it will have to scramble to live throughTwitters marketing onslaught.Update: Meerkat CEO Ben Rubin tells us that while his team did reach out to Vine stars pre-launch, thatwas for a previous streaming app called Yevvo.Since Meerkat launched onFebruary 27, the team has actively approached zero people asking to use our product. All we do is work with inbound, he said.