Picturea professional sports photographer. What do you see? Someone in a beige vest hidden behindagiant, telescopic camerastationed in the back of an end zone?How about someone standing in a throng of spectators with only an iPhone 6s Plus in their hands and a battery pack in theirpocket?No? Well meet Brad Mangin. Brad has beena professional sports photographerfor over two decades and has shot countless Super Bowls, World Series, and even the Olympics.But those were all with a traditional DSLR (or film!) camera. Recently, hes started exclusively using his iPhone to photograph professional sports events. Why, you may ask? As Brad explained, the phones small form factor has allowed him to get shots that would have never been possible with a bulky DSLR.At first, I was skeptical. But after havingBrad walk me throughsome photos that heshot and edited entirely on iPhone atTHE PLAYERS Championship, it made sense.The first thing that stands out is that these obviously arent the typical action shots you imagine when you think of sports photography.One of the first things Brad touched on is the importance of knowing your limitations  as good as iPhones camera is, it just isnt powerful enough to capture split-second action shots. So instead, Brad shot things where the iPhones small form factor would help him tell the story of the THE PLAYERS Championship in a way that action shots wouldnt be able to.For example, he was able to gain access to areas where a big camera rig would have been frowned upon. Plus, Brad explained that shooting with an iPhone is disarming  the lack of bulky gear allowed his subjects tolet their guard down and be more natural.2016 Brad Mangin/PGA TOURBesides capturing more honest shots, shooting and editing solely on iPhone gives a tremendous speed advantage in terms of sharing the photographs with the world.Typically, golf tournaments employ runners to canvas the course for photographers, and grabbing their memory card to run back to the media tent. Instead, Brad shot a picture, found some shade to edit it, and sent it directly to the TOUR, who were able to instantly share it across their social media. Caryn Levy, a photo official at the TOUR, said that Brads photos were the fastest turnaround time they have ever had ata tournament.So does Brad just run these through an Instagram filter and send them off? Sometimes, yes.Actually the editing process is a bit more complicated than that, but Brad reallydoes occasionally use Instagrams filters. He explained how he puts his phone in airplane mode and edits a photo in Instagram so it will save to his camera roll but not share to his feed. He also uses Snapseed, Googles free mobile editing suite that is apparently popular among amateur and professional photographers alike. After the editing is done, he uses PhotoShelters Libris Uploader, which is a new iPhone app that lets multiple photographers all upload to one organizations central photo archive.Over the four days of THE PLAYERS Championship, Brad shot 3,232 photos on his iPhone, which resulted in 380 final shots. Interestingly, Brad often transmitted the same image invarious colors and aspects (like square for Instagram), so theTOUR could instantly upload the ideal shot across social platforms.As mobile cameras continue to improve, look to see more and more professional photographers eschew their bulky gear for devices like iPhone. While they wont always be able to capture that perfect touchdown catch, they will be able to tellviewers a different storythat only a small, discretecamera could tell.