
Shantanu Gaur, MD, is the co-founder and Chief Scientific Officer of medical device company Allurion Technologies.It seems like theres no shortage of online apps and services to make life and business easier. You can stream movies in your own home, pay parking tickets with the tap of a finger and plan a world adventure from the comfort of your couch. But when it comes to healthcare, youre living in the past.While medicine is better than ithasever been before, and companies are making remarkable strides in life-saving  or life-improving  medical devices, theres a long way to go.In the same, tried-and-true path, devices keep chugging along in R&D, clinical trials and applying for approvals in the U.S. and abroad. There are manythingshealthcare companies do well when it comes to medical technology, such as testing for safety in humans, documentation and design. And there are a lot ofthingsthey fail at  and could learn from some of the leading consumer techjuggernauts today.Working in gastric science, tackling obesity and weight loss, Im sure my company has done studies and experiments to solve problems and investigate questions that others have already solved perhaps many times, because obesity and weight loss are fairly well-studied.This is because almost all data generated by pharmaceutical and medical companies are kept under lock and key. Itsonly the beginningin data sharing for healthcare, and theres no widespread open-source movement or Elon Musk figurereleasing patents into the wildyet. This means incredible startup costs for a new company or device, but its also pretty terrible from aconsumerperspective; we put our users through the ringer over and over again to study the samethings.Of course, some data and information should be kept private. But imagine a world where medtech innovators could avoid reinventing the wheel and focus on bigger ambitions  what leaps could we make in technology? Google, Facebook and others have open sourced code to help build the greater online ecosystem, and they are still able to create proprietary products or make money off their platforms. We need to create a similar ecosystem where healthcare brands can compete, but where we eliminate busy work.Stewart Butterfield from Slack wrotea terrificarticle on Mediumwith some on-point observations aboutconsumerexperience versus product. When youre creating something new, you cant just focus on the product  you need to think about how your audience is experiencing it. Meeting users where they are and building a beautiful experience  not just beautifulthings is something at whichthe best technology companies (like Slack) excel.Because medtech companies rely on reimbursement models to sell products, they dont have the same pressures to create an excellentconsumerexperience. In fact, beyond the safety and efficacy of a device or therapy, how an individual experiences that product just isnt a huge consideration. Granted, healthcare is a complicated industry, and theres much more at stake than a company-wide messaging system. But safety and efficacy dont preclude an amazing customer experience.In general,techcompanies rely on user feedback and preferences not just to fix problems, but also to adapt their product and create new features. Wherever their users are, the most successful companies want to be there too, understanding both new and old customers and bringing them closer to the brand. They ask, Why dont we see you? and then work to fix things.Meanwhile, medtech companies still operate at an arms length and on outdated assumptions. They rely on the myth that we all visit our primary care physicians, who then recommend which therapy to get. While a strong relationship and level of trust with a doctor might have been the case a decade or more ago, most people arent doing that today. Medical users are, like everyone else, online these days. Yet these companies are still focused on physician marketing to reach new potential.Instead of asking why they dont understand where their users are, medtech companies are wondering Why dont you see us?But social media, Yelp and online communities are not intuitive parts of many healthcare companies customer relationships. Said another way, medtech companies treat customers as purchasers, whiletechcompanies treat them as participants.Yet medtech should still look to the rocket ship success of thetechindustry for inspiration and lessons. People today are not patients first  theyre individuals with more access to information than ever before. This also means that medtech companies now have unprecedented access to these audiences of users (and potential users!) in more places for valuable insights. We have new tools and a newconsumerparadigm to create world-changing healthcare  we just need to build it.