We are still light on details, but now we know a bit more about Tidal, the high-defintion music streaming service that relaunched today, including a long list of musician-shareholders in the service and the participation of Softbank.Jay Z may be the name weve heardin connection with Tidalsnew ownership, but today, the company unveiled a lineup of 17 other famous musicians that are alsoa part of the venture as co-owners: Alicia Keys, Calvin Harris,Win Butler and Rgine Chassagne from Arcade fire, Chris Martin from Coldplay, Beyonce,Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo and Thomas Bangalterfrom Daft Punk, Jack White, J. Cole, Jason Aldean, Kanye West, Deadmaus, Madonna, Nicki Minaj, Rihanna and Usher.And they may not be the only ones. In her opening remarks during a launch event in New York, Vania Schlogel  an executive at Aspiro, the parent company of Tidal  confirmedthat the music servicewill be partnering with Sprint and Sprintsowner, Softbank. But, in keeping with the light-detail theme,she didnot provide any details explaining how. Separately, the NY Post reports that Softbank may be partly bankrolling the service.We are trying to get more details about Softbanks and Sprints involvement.As we pointed out earlier today, Tidal is moving into the market against other very strong gravitational forces. It will compete withSpotify, which has 15 million paying users, and 60 million overall; Beats, with all the might of Apple behind it; and many more. Tidal today has less than 40,000 paying subscribers. The companycurrently has no freemium tier  only two options for users, a $9.99/month premium standard definition service and a high-def service at $19.99/month.Will a roster of big-name artists and a lot of big ideas be enough? Right now its too early to tell.The feeling that the brief event tried to convey today most of all was artists trying to takeback the showfrom the technologies and others in the industry that have upstagedthem. Alicia Keys, who did all of the talking on behalf of the artists, sketchedout the vision like this:Our mission goes beyond commerce and technology, she said. Music is the worlds first true universal language. Theres not a soul living who can deny its impact.Confirming our earlier report, she also notedthere will be an emphasis on making the experience one-of-a-kind. She described Tidal as a place for connection between artists and fans where we will deliver exclusive experiences. Tidal is cultivating a sound business enterprise that promotes sustainability in our world.Later, a video of the musician co-owners brainstorming in a town-hall style eventpointed toa bit more ofthe tension and frustration that some musicians feel at the state of play today. (A shortened version is here.)They see us as a product, the shorter of the helmeted Daft Punk duo said in his French-accented clip, referring to the current music streaming services in the market.This is about bringingthe artist back into this. This is not about technology, Madonna said flatly.Were like the Avengers! someone else noted in the voiceover.They are writing the story for us we need to write the story for ourselves, said Jay Z. If these artistscan sit in a room together, the game changes forever.This is the declaration that the artists signed on stage today:Throughout history, every movement began with a few individuals banding together with a shared vision  a vision to change the status quo.That vision came to life with a first step. Our first step begins today through the platform TIDAL.TIDAL is an artist majority owned company with a mission to reestablish the value of music and protect the sustainability of the music industry rooted in creativity and expression.As part of our vision to introduce change to the current system, we will continue expanding this platform into an all-encompassing destinationin the coming months. We are working diligently everyday to enhance the overall service.Today, the site incorporates high quality sound, video and exclusive editorial, but there are more features on the way. In time, TIDAL will not just be a streaming service but an immersive platform with enhanced experiences.With TIDAL we are making a commitment to build a platform that reflects ideas contributed directly from artists, providing an enriched experience. Music presented and heard the way the artists intended.We want our mission with TIDAL to spark conversation and lay a foundation for tomorrowsburgeoning stars.Our movement is being led by a few who are inviting all to band together for a common cause, a movement to change the status quo.Today marks the next step.#TIDALforALL