After scoring exclusive streaming rightsto Kanye Wests new album, The Life of Pablo, Tidalhastaken over the number one spot on the U.S. App Store.Man thank you so so so much everyone for signing up to Tidal. Tidal is now the number one app in the world!!! pic.twitter.com/O3r9DkX03R KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 15, 2016The album, which went live yesterday, was originally supposed to be available for streaming on Tidals platform, as well as for purchase onKanyes website. However, yesterday Kanye tweeted that he was pulling the album from his own site, meaning Tidal would become the only place fans could listen to the album, at least until it hits iTunes in seven days.Please for all music lovers. Please subscribe to tidal!!! I decided not to sell my album for another week. Please subscribe to tidal. KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 14, 2016West, who reportedly owns a small stake of Tidal through friend and Tidal owner Jay-Z, emphasized that all music loversshould subscribe to Tidal to hear his album.The call to action seems to have worked, as it took less than 24 hours for the app to takeover the number one download spot on iTunes.Of course while not all downloads will convert to subscriptions  Tidal is ranked the 30th top grossing app right now  many fans are presumably eager to hear Kanyes new album, and are likely to at least provide a credit card and take advantage of the free trial that Tidal offers.So far, the streaming site has held up to the intense onslaught of traffic fromYes fans. However, last week was a different story, when millions of fans complained that Tidals live video stream of Kanyes Season 3 fashion show / album debut was malfunctioning.Seems that Kanye and Tidal need some Pied Piper compressionLive stream immediately down.#YeezySeason3 #Tidal Erol Tekkanat (@ErolTekkanat) February 11, 2016Notably,West isnt the only artist to release music exclusively on Tidal. Recent songs by both Rihanna and Beyonc hit Tidal before any other streaming services.While this is most likely due to the close relationship between these artists and Tidal owner, Jay-Z, Kanyealso noted that Tidal is funding a lot of his scripted content ideas, meaning the exclusivity pactmay be part of a larger deal between West and the streaming service.Ultimately, ifthe streaming service can continue scoring sought-afterexclusiveslike The Life of Pablo, it may just have a shot against an incumbent iTunes after all.