


Facebook

LinkedIn

Tilt Founders On International Expansion
Tilts already expanded to the United Kingdom, itssecond international country, this year and plans to expand to fivemore countries in the next five months or so.Thats a challenge for any startup for a number of reasons. It has to build out a playbook for how to expand incrementally to each country, and, at the very least, it has to ensure that it preserves the companys culture across satellite offices.To find out more about that, we spoke with Tilt co-founders James Beshara and Khaled Hussein about how the companys international expansion is going and how itsculture and history were structured in order to set itself up.Initially, Beshara said Tilt was spread all over the country  meaning that its already dealt with remote offices from day one. I think the distributed nature of the team, its been baked into the DNA from the beginning.Still, it has to find ways to hire the right people whonot only fit into that culture but have some expertise in new regions. For example, when we last spoke to Tilt about its international expansion plans, Beshara said users in Canada aremore conservative thanAmerican users. But overall, the company is looking internationally to continue to grow its business.If the economics make sense for an independent or first time entrepreneuron something like Tilt open or Kickstarter,the economics are gonna make sense for Nike, Sony, Lululemon, and other innovative brands that want to tap into the power of their community, Beshara said.Part of that challenge is that Tilt has to not only be a crowdfunding company, but also treat itselfplatform company, Husseinsaid. Heres what that means: the service has to not only be centered around crowdfunding, but also the social connectivity surrounding that, and also have the ability to be openly modified for other use cases either internally oras part of the companys Tilt Open platform.One of themost important decisions early on was think about it as a platform and think about building the API, Hussein said. Now I can build all these different clients anddifferent use cases with our APIs. It would have been a much difficult problem to solve if we didnt think of it as a platform, and now it becomes a matter of user experience.Initially, Tilt  formerly Crowdtilt  started off as a feature attached to Besharas previous project when he was working in South Africa, a startup for people to collaborate and donate with family and friends to international development organizations. An investor connected him with Hussein, who at the time worked at Rackspace and was looking for his next steps  something that had some kind of social impact.Around that time I was thinking aboutthe [startups that could have]social impact, the first Egyptian revolution was happening on Facebook, [and I was] seeing how tech could have a huge impact onpeoples lives, Hussein said. James was pitching Tilt to me, and I was like, thats it. Thats where Im gonna go.Now Tilts challenge will be to ensure that, as the company continues to grow abroad, those values and the core concept of funding projects in a more bite-size manner (while on the bus, Beshara says) proves to be valuable in new countries and new cultures.Once Tilt becomes this mainstream, seamless tool, you use it when you start thinking about pooling resources, the use cases become unlimited, Hussein said. Thats whats exciting about providing the platform, a tool similar to Tilt. It unlocks behavior and ideas.