Some of the biggest names in tech and corporate America, including Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg,Apple CEO Tim Cook, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandbergand Walmart CEO Doug McMillon, have teamed up with governors and educators to ask Congress to provide $250 million in federal funding to school districts in order to giveevery single K-12 student in the nation an opportunity to learn how to code. On the legislative side, these tech CEOs are joined by governors from both sides, includingCalifornia Gov. Jerry Brown (D) and Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson (R).Earlier this year, President Barack Obama called for more than $4 billion in funding for states, and $100 million for districts in order to bring computer science curricula to every single K-12 student in the country. What this group of CEOs, governors and educators is asking for today is different. Theyre saying that this issue can be addressed without growing the federal budget.The breadth of support shows that computer science isnt just a tech problem anymore, its an America problem, Code.org founder Hadi Partovi told me in an email. And its not just a Democrat issue, its the most bipartisan issue in the U.S.That seems to be true. Of the 28 governors who signed the petition, 14 are Republican and 14 are Democrats.Partovi also saidthat its quite unique to have all the royalty in tech joined by CEOs of Deere & Co, DuPont, American Airlines, Marriott Hotels, Disney, Morgan Stanley, BlackRock, Walmart, Target, etc. Thats never happened before.In the meantime, Microsoft, Google, Zuckerberg, Bezos and others have collectively committed $48 million to the cause, with $23 million of it going to Code.org.For Code.org the funding means doubling downon our momentum, Partovi said. Weve brought computer science to 10% of allclassrooms in America, but theres a long way to go. Well use the money to train over 25,000 public school teachers to introduce computer science to students who would otherwise never have this opportunity.Anyone interested in supporting the petition, which is organized by the Computer Science Education Coalition and Code.org, can add their name to it on Change.org. At the time of publication, the petition had 1,405 supporters.