Apple CEO Tim Cook has mounted the fiercest argument explaining why Apple is opposed to an FBI order to open the iPhone used by San Bernardino terrorist Syed Farook.
Cook has already explained Apples stance in detail on two occasions (in a letter to customers and an internal note to staffwhich was made public), and numerous tech figures have added their support. However,in the wake ofFBI Director James Comey denying that the ultimate goal is a backdoor,a Pew poll suggeststhat the majority of Americans believe Apple should follow the order. Despite results like this, Cook continues to make the companysstance on the matter crystal clear.Inan exclusive interview with ABCs David Muir, Cookdescribedhis fearthat enabling backdoor access to the iPhone  which he described as the software equivalent of cancer  wouldset a dangerous precedent for the future thatrisks boththe privacy and public safety of hundreds of millions of Apple customers worldwide.We have no sympathyfor terrorists, Cook said. In my view they left their rights when they decided to do awful things Were not protecting their privacy, were protecting the rights and public safety of everyone else.[Creating software to access data locked on the iPhone]exposes everyone else. Developing that software, its so powerful it has the capability to unlock other iPhones. That is the issue.Cook said he has received thousands of emails in supportof Apples stance, with the largest single category of voicescoming from American service men and women who fight for our freedom. That, Cook said, is telling of the potential to create a key that could be used to violate public safety bypotentially exposing the intimate and private information that people keep on their phone such as bank details, relationships and the location of children.Publicfigures including Microsoft founder Bill Gates and Presidential candidate Donald Trump have come forward toarguethat national security and terrorism are the right grounds for Apple to agree to open the iPhone in question,but Cook stressed that it is the futureimplications of such a move that terrifyhim and Apple.[A]master key to turn 100 million locks, even if in the possession of a person you trust, could be stolen, the Apple CEO explained. You can imagine the target on that piece. Im not saying [that] the government would abuse it, but there are lots of bad guys in the world. Millions of people have [already] had their personal information stolen by hackers.Apple has previously said that it has provided the FBI with all the information in its possession, and Cook reiterated that, adding that the company is working as best it can to add to that pile  without opening the phone. Regarding additional data that might be contained on the iPhone, the Apple CEO pointed out that the FBI could go to telecom operators and others for information about calls made and messages sent across the cellular network. The data ball isnt just in Apples court, so to speak.Cook also took time to voice hisconcern onthe manner in which the FBI has gone about the issue, which included authorities changing the devices passcode, thereby locking data on the device.Claiming that the first Apple heard of the order was via media reports, he pointed out this ordercould open the floor for other U.S. states to apply for similar backdoors which would not only increase the risk of bad operators accessing suchsoftware, but would makethe aforementioned data on individuals devices effectivelyavailable on order for courts and judges.Beyond that, he added, theres no reason that similar requests couldnt be made to other phone companies  a situation that he believes would be disastrous for the population.The debate is currently playing out in public and, while Cook acknowledged that there are positives to having voices heard, he lamented the current situation. He said he believes that anyruling on the matter should come fromCongress where thepeople of America [can]get a voice. Cook is optimistic that the potential violations he outlined would be supported from Washington, buthe intends to talk to President Obama about the situation and vowed topush the issue all the way to the Supreme Court if necessary.Ivefaced a lot of challenges [as Apple CEO] but never felt the government apparatus  this is right up there, Cook reflected. We are [the ones] advocating for civil liberties, itsincredibly ironic.Despite the challenges and public way in which this debate is being hashed out, Cook emphasized his companys deep appreciation for the U.S. and reiterated that I believe we are making the right choice in thiscomplicated situation.Some things are hard and some things are right and some things are both. This is one of those things, he added.Ultimately, Cooks responsesechoed with a call for a policy discussion about this very sensitive privacy subject rather than a knee jerk, pressured, in-the-public-spotlight conversation (like is happening now). And while Cook lamented that this is the state of the conversation, his irrepressible optimism declared that they will persevere on behalf of their customers.While there are myriad complexities enveloping this situation, there is no doubt that if Apple were forced to comply, it wouldsustain considerabledamage to the equity of itsbrand. People wouldthink twice about how they use their phone going forward and that could affect the value proposition of the iPhone as a tool and therefore Apples long-terms profits.However, Cooks repeated focus (at least publicly)on framing the issue from their customers standpoint rather than from Apples, is a testament to the firmssingular customer focus and might help explain to those who only see this issue in black and white terms why the smartphone maker is taking the approach that it isare taking. Apple isalways, even now, thinking about itscustomers.