DFJ, the storied Silicon Valley venture capital firm, has built out a global presence not just through direct investments but through a network of firms that are affiliated with the mothershipyetraising and investing from their own funds. Now that network is going through some changes, and with it comes a new role for one of the firms founders. The DFJ Network has rebranded to the Draper Network, and Tim Draper is stepping up his involvement and investments in the networks largest member, London-basedDraper Esprit (formerly called DFJ Esprit).There are three different developments here: the rebranding isthe latest stage of evolution in the Network, which was restructured in 2013 to give it more autonomy and remove DFJs carry in any deals. And Draper getting more interested in international is the latest stage in his own evolving investment career, after stepping away from an investing role in DFJ in 2013. Meanwhile, Draper Esprit, run by Simon Cook (below rightwith Draper, left), has seen a lot of personnel changes this year.Draper getting more involved in Europe is not entirely out of the blue, of course. Among the dozens of companies hes invested in is Skype, one of the most successful tech startups to come out of this region.But it isalsopart of a bigger and more recent shift that we are seeing among U.S.VCs to widen their net and focus more on Europe. Other activity includesthe likes of Google Ventures opening an office in London a year ago to spearhead investments in the region; and others likeSequoia, Peter Thiels Valar Ventures, and Union Square Ventures allbuilding out their portfolios with investments in promising new startups from the old world.Draper Esprit has arguably been one of the VCs leading that charge, but also on a different track. Founded nine years ago, it was an early mover in the franchising model, raising and administeringits own funds, while remaining connected to the original DFJ by way of the DFJ Network. Draper Espritsportfolio today  which includesLyst, Trustpilot, Movidius,Miura, Fluidic Analytics, and CurrencyFair has a collective valuation of about $4 billion, the company says. And at a time when venture investments in tech have continued to heat up, there has been an acceleration in the capital that these startups are raising  some $250 million in the last six months alone.Weve heard that Draper Espritis now raising for a newfund, one place where having Draper getting more involved could help grease the wheels.As the VC embarks on itsnext stage, we had a chat with Tim Draper about Europe, and what he sees as the opportunities here. What follows is an edited version of that exclusive conversation.TC: Why are you choosing now to focusmore on Europe?Tim Draper: Europe is really interesting right now, it feels like its moment is now. The regulations are right  for examplecrowdfunding laws are much more appropriate in the UK thanthey are in the U.S. Estonia is showing the way in areas like digital voting and digital identity measures. And Greece hasa big opportunity to take on Bitcoin and eschew any fiat currency.There are gaps and holes in the current market that will get bigger, and weve got a major opportunity to fill those holes with technology. This is an amazing opportunity for Europe toleapfrog and become an economic powerhouse. Itturns out that regulators around the world are not keeping up on the amazing changes in tech and its hard for them to let go. But the new world is going to be organizedby the governments who get with it. Europeis in a good position to do that.TC: What will it mean, practically, for you to be stepping up more in Europe?TD: I get deal flow from all over the world already. Now, I will be more actively pursuing that in Europe, spending more time here.For me travel happens when I see an interesting opportunity happening. I think there will be moreentrepreneurs coming from the ground in europe because its been held down by bureaucracy for so long. Now everyone is thinking of solutions to problems. Its great.TC: There have been arguments for and against Bitcoin saving Greece, so to speak. What do you see as the opportunity?TD: Bitcoin is an obvious one. You can jump into it through remittances but they should all be using Bitcoin. It may not seem obvious but then again Skype was also a non-obvious deal. Greece is a great opportunity if you are an entrepreneur. There is alsocloud based government services [to bring down costs], smart contracts  justso many great opportunities to jump into.None of these things happen overnight. From when things get going to when they become readily availbale usually will take five to six years. My guess is that some entrepreneur is thinking of how to reinvent the Greekeconomy.TC: Have you placed a target on how much youd like to invest in European startups in that time? What areas are you focusing on?TD: I suspect that it will haveto do with a lot of how much we raiseand where the opportunities are, but assuming that the catastrophe in Greece actually creates opportunity, I suspect we will be putting a lot more money into Europe. Over the next five years? I dont know. I hate putting numbers on that.As for what to invest in, Im always looking for interesting and transformative financial, medical, government and education technologies. Basically,anything that is limited by bureaucracy will be a big opporutnity for entrepreneurs, and those are the things that i am looking for.TC: Onetrajectory European startups often take is to move over to the U.S. to raise money and grow. Zendesk, Spotify and many others have taken this route, and Euro founders have lamented that its hard to find VCs here willing to make big growth investments, to attract that kind of attentionfrom the U.S. when you are not on the ground there. Do you think that can change over time, or will Silicon Valley always be that tech magnet/generator?TD: For starters, thereare going to be more and more European startups, which will affect this. Also, Ibelieve that geographic borders are going to fall when it comes to how those startupsoperate and get financed.Money is going to move morefreely throughout the world. There will be less friction and the world is opening up globally. Peoplewho fund late stage companies in Europe are going to come from allover the world. Just as thosewho fund in the U.S. are comingfrom all over the world today. [Uber is one key example of this.] Its a globalphenomenon and will become even more so.Regulation helps to keep money in bulge bracket firms.From the other end of the spectrum, platformslike AngelListare really democratizing how capital is raised.