Paris basedstartup Tinbox, which was founded in January last year by a couple of friends at Warwick University in the U.K., is aimingto make a business out of letting people donate freely to charities of their choice via a mobile app.The mobile-only startup, which has just launched in private beta this week with a plan to open up the app tothe public in the next couple of weeks (albeit with a waiting list system to manage on-boarding), lets users choose a charityto donate 1 per day to without having to spend any of their own money.The donation costs the app user nothing because its sponsored by one of the companies Tinbox is working with. Why should brands want to give free donation cash? Toimprove their image and brand perception of course.Tinbox says SAP has committed to fund 10,000 clicks thus far, and its also in discussions with several other major brands, as well as working with smaller companies keen tosupport local charities.For app users we solve the problem of not being able to donate to the charity they care about. Our vision is that everyone is able to support the causes to them. Through Tinbox they have 1 euro per day that allows them to do so, saysco-founder David Linderman.For the companies we provide visibility for all the good they are doing for charity. Today very few people know that a company is actually engaged in these charitable endeavors so through us people actually find this out.The pair came up with the idea for Tinbox after noticing how successfulcharity campaigns could beon social media  in terms of accruing likes and shares  and wondering whether they could come up with a mechanism that turned those same clicks into actual cash donations.We wanted to give charities a way where a very similar clicking action translates into real money for their cause. So a very similar click of a button  similar to a like and sharing  actually translates into one euro for the charity, he adds.Tinbox iscompetingwithfree charity donation websitesthat urge people to click to donate by viewing ads,funding donations via ad revenue. However Linderman notes that users of thesesites cant be sure exactly how much theyre donating. The experience is also pretty unpleasant for the user, who either has to watch lengthy ads or endure lots of pop ups without knowing whether they arereallyhelping charities.On these websites theres actually no way to quantify the amount that the company or the ad is donating to charity. Through us, everyone knows its a euro a day, he says, adding:Because we create real partnerships with the companies themselves, and not the companies that supply the ads, then we dont need to show our users any ads. All they know is which companies sponsored their donation.The Tinbox app lets users specify what they want their donation to be spent on, as well as who to donate it to. The app will also be achannel where donors can track the progress of projects to which they have donated to see how their money ismaking a difference.On the charities side, Tinbox says it has a range signed up thus far  fromlocal initiatives such as sponsored cyclers The Green Wheelstolarger nationwide charities such asEXCITED (which is promoting STEM education for Irish children) andElectricians Without Borders.The startupraised its first round of funding  $100,000 from five business angels  in August last year. And to be clear, it is intending to be a business, not a not-for-profit social enterprise. So while its free for app users and charities to use, it is charging companies that sponsor donations a small fee on top of their donations  for the extra visibility they get for their brand, as CEO and co-founder Adrien Guilmineau puts it.Wont Tinbox run out of donated cash to fund clicks?Just last year in France alone $2 billion was given to charity by companies (U.S. is $20B, UK $2.4B). That is a lot of clicks before we run out but in order to not have people sitting around waiting for clicks to be sponsored we built a waiting list, says Guilmineau. That already has 136 subscribers since Monday when we launched sign ups.