Tinder Plus, the long-awaited premium version of Tinders service, offering features like an Undo button for errant swipes and a Passport option for searching outside your current geographic region, is nearing launch here in the U.S. for iOS and Android users. Both of Tinders mobile apps recently received updates on therespective app stores where the feature was mentioned in the apps update text  hinting at an imminent arrival. However, Tinder says that Plus is not yet being enabled for end users in the U.S. at this time  and the apps update text descriptions will be edited to reflect this.Instead, the dating appsays itsU.S. launch is still on track for a mid-to-late March time frame.We first spotted the update on iOS thanks to an alerting service that pings us about mobile app updates  it had pulled in the newly updated text for iOS users in the U.S. App Store which described the changeslike so:Undo  Take back your last swipe!  Passport  Change your location to match with people around the world!  Bug fixesTinder says it has already corrected this update text.Meanwhile, over on Google Play, Tinders app continuesto mention both the Undo and Passport features. However,that could also be reflective of the fact that Tinder Plus is already live in a handful of countriesat present. (Tinder understands that showing this text to U.S. users could be confusing and may edit it out for the time being.)The paid version of Tinderwas previously announced in November, and then selectively rolled out to test markets including the U.K., Brazil and Germany, where initially, only 40 percent of users were given access to the feature. Thats still the case today, as the company confirms that its still testing the addition, which is made available to users through in-app purchases, with a variety of price points. In some cases, purchases are just $0.99, while in others, Tinder is charging as much as $19.99 to see how consumers react to pricing.The company had previously saidthat Tinder Plus would be live at year-end for all users, according to some reports, but clearly it has rolled past that more informal deadline. The feature is still being tested with a smaller percentage of its user base, and is not yet being switched on for those in the U.S. until next month.Last week, a leak also pointed to a March time frame for Tinder Pluss U.S. launch at a price point of $6.99 per month. Tinder today confirms its still on track for March, but wont disclose pricing.From what the company tells us, Tinder Plus may also include other features beyond Undo and Passport in future releases, based on user feedback and other demands. Tinder isnot prepared to detail what those additions may be at this time, however.In the meantime, in case you also happened to catch what appeared to be the launch of a U.S. version of Tinder Plus, know that youre still going to have to wait a little longer. Instead, what the most recent updates to the Tinder U.S. apps reflect is that the feature itself is bundled in the software and code, but Tinder still has to enable the optionbefore users stateside can actually use it.Update:A tipster has sent us what appear to be two screengrabs from Tinder Plus  with pricing apparently startingat$2.99 per month to access premiumfeatures such as unlimited likes and the aforementioned rewind swipe option:Meanwhile, on the U.K. App Storethere are three pricing tiers associated withv4.1.1 of theTinder app (which was released on February 2), although in-app purchases do not appear to have been switched on yet, and there is no mention of the premium features in the app description.The three U.K. pricing tiers for Tinder Plus are 2.29, 3.99 and 7.99.