AnotherU.K.-based team is gunningto build a business out of simplifying usingthe Raspberry Pi single board computer. (Lets call it slicing the Pi) Following on from the likes of Kano, design and technology studio Nord has launched a crowdfunding campaign on Kickstarter to fund aPi hardware add-on, plus simplifying software platform built atop the Pis Raspbian OS.The device-in-the-making iscalled Tingbot. Its designed to embody Pi apps in a neat form factor that can sit on your desk or bedside table, with a built-in touchscreen and programmable buttonsenabling the user toview and interact with TingbotPi apps(without having to first faff around combining Pi hardware with a display accessoryor other hardware themselves). The Tingbot hardware willcome in kit form but again, super simplified so you dont need any special skills to assemble it.And because the Tingbot isalways on, so is whatever app yourerunning on the screen.We like the idea of glanceable experiences, in finding calmer ways to bring meaningful information into our lives, explainsNordon its crowdfundingpage.Unlike Kano, Tingbot is not being targeted at kids. Rather the team is making a generalpitch for creative technologistswho like the idea of tinkering with or getting more out of thePi but have perhapsbeen frustrated by how tricky it can beto use.The Pi Foundation intentionally designed the Pi to be a bit difficult, rather than creating a really simple plug-and-play device. Intentional because they wanted kids to learn about coding and calculated thata degree of difficulty and challenge wasnecessary to getchildren engaged and learning about computing.But that design decision has had the side-effect of spinning up a cottage industry of Pi simplifying add-ons that aim to turn the platform into something a bit moreplug and play.Weve seen Pi-powered console kits before, for instance. And even an entire Pi-powered laptop. Tingbot isaimed more generally atapp developers and/orapp users, but again its all about making it easier to get something out of Pi.The team suggests Tingbotcould be used to display a video live feed of a particular place, or for weather notifications. Or to show the next buses arriving at your local stop. Apps for Tingbot will bewritten inPython. And the team is buildinga simplified dev environment (called Tide) plus libraries to make it easier for people to build software for the Tingbot.The plan, should the device make it to market, is also to have an app store where users can ultimately share their own apps and discover whatever others have built.Nord is looking to raise 40,000 in crowdfunds to finish development work and get the Tingbot to market,with a slated delivery schedule of May 2016. At the time of writing theyhave less than 5,000 of their funding goalleft to be pledged soits looking likely the Kickstarter will succeed.Whether that turns into a successfully shipping product is of course another matter. Hardware projects have an especially bad record for delays and failed delivery  so its always a case of buyer beware when youre thinking about pledging money to pre-orderany crowdfunded gizmo.If youre comfortable to take the risk, the Tingbot is currently priced at 50 ($75) to Kickstarter backers.