Meet Tinyclues, a French startup that is working with big e-commerce websites to make their marketing campaigns more effective. Chances are youve received emails that tell you what product you should buy based on your latest purchase. Tinyclues goes a step further and wants to improve buying rates from these kind of marketing campaigns.The company just raised $5.5 million (5 million) from Alven Capital, with existing investors ISAI and Elaia Partners also participating.Heres how Tinyclues works. After setting it up with your database of products and clients, the companys servers will gather as much data as possible  purchase history, client information, navigation tracking, etc. Thanks to machine-learning from similar customers and big data analysis, Tinyclues can make educated suggestions for future purchases.It works for email newsletters, mobile notifications and Facebook campaigns. And it seems to be working as the company claims 30 percent more revenue from these campaigns when you use Tinyclues compared to competitors.Some of the biggest French e-commerce websites are using it, such as Fnac, 3Suisses, Vestiaire Collective, Price Minister, Sarenza and more. Now, the company plans on convincing international e-commerce websites as well thanks to todays funding round.There are a few key reasons why I think Tinyclues might have the edge on this tiny market. First, all the recommendations are automatic. You dont need to manually find related products and dig through your product database  Tinyclues will make suggestions without any manual input.Second, it uses a software-as-a-service approach, letting any e-commerce retailer try the service for a small subset of the site without much effort. Its just a matter of plugging your existing website with the companys servers.Third, it seems like an interesting market for the startup. Tinyclues is basically increasing revenue for all these e-commerce retailers. Its an easy sell when your value proposition is that your clients will make more money once they switch to Tinyclues.Its also all about keeping up with the right e-commerce service providers, CRMs and marketing tools so that Tinyclues becomes just another brick to make its clients existing workflow more efficient. Now lets just hope you wont ever received a dumb product suggestion again from your favorite e-commerce website.