Eventbrite, the nine-year-old, San Francisco-based online ticketing platform, wants to do much  much  more for its customers once theyve actually arrived atan event venue.Its newest initiative: wristbands.Its more interesting than it sounds  and potentially very lucrative.Some backstory: Eventbrite recently (quietly) acquired a small Canadian RFID chipmaker called Scintilla Technologies for an undisclosed amount. Were guessing this was an acqui-hire; asked about whether the company will remain in Canada, Eventbrite VP of Product Laurent Sellier offers only that three of Scintillas engineers have moved to San Francisco.What the new tech allows Eventbrite to do, first and foremost, is help speed up attendees entry into events. Inthose cases where they may be a VIP, it also enables themeasy access into those parts of the show or festival where they might otherwise have to produce special credentials.Its great for consumers. Now attendees of major food or musical festivals who might have had to wait in a long line to have their tickets scanned can instead buy a ticket online, wait for the wristband to arrive at their home, and walk right into the venuethe day of the event.The wristbands work whether or not theres power or WiFi.Ifan attendee forgets his or her wristband, event organizers can simply give them another,using an earlier Eventbrite sales processing technology called Neontoprogram the wristband.The bandsare awin for event organizers, too. Theyget happier attendees, and theyllreceive evenbetter analytics from Eventbrite, which can help them track attendee movements at an event.Not last, thenew wristbands are a way for Eventbrite to make more money off each attendee. To wit, it has struck a partnership with BestRing, a point-of-sale technology company that works with merchants on cashless transactions. Through that deal, attendees whove registered their credit cards with Eventbrite can now buywhatever they like at anevent with the simple tap of their wristband.Sellier isnt disclosing what kind of cut Eventbrite will see. He does say that down the road, Eventbrite is hoping to bring the same technology to sports venues, where people really rack up ancillary charges on merchandise and food.Other future capabilities might center around sponsors (imagine tapping your wristband at a booth and providing information about yourself in exchange for a drink), as well as deeper social media integration. (Tap a terminal and take a picture of yourself and your friends that gets beamed to Instagram  or something along those lines.)In the meantime, Eventbritewhich has raised roughly $200 million from investors and was valued at north of $1 billion during its last round in March 2014 willcontinueto broaden its reach.To date,the companyhas processed more than $3.5 billion in gross ticket sales and more than 200 million tickets in more than 180 countries. That breaks down to around 2 million tickets each week.For more on the future of the on-site experience as imagined by Eventbrite, click here.