
Lars Dalgaard is a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz where he sits on the boards of Imgur, Teespring, and Zenefits. Prior to a16z, Lars founded and was CEO of SuccessFactors.Coin-operated idiots. Even if no one says it out loud about sales people anymore, they might still think it.Its the perception some startup CEOs have when it comes to their sales force (unless the founders have come from sales themselves). Just load em up and watch them do their mindless best  like at a laundromat.To make matters worse, the phrase is often accompanied by a smirk, as if its something funny.I am not amused.The coin operated idiots mindset toward sales is a mistake for a number of reasons. For one thing, its a kind of bigotry, because it basically writes off an entire workforce of human beings who create so much value everyday. An outstanding and involved sales force can often make or break a company. Its why companies with an inferior product but a superior sales force sometimes still win.But the real problem with the coin-operated idiots mindset is that it relegates salespeople only to the field or to the phone, when they really should be considered part of the company leadership. Not this decapitated thing you slot onto your organization when you need to.Sales should be front and center in leadership and strategy, because your sales force might be one of your most valuable assets  regardless of whether its enterprise or consumer facing. (Enterprise people: yes, Twitter, Google, and Facebook all have close to 1,000+ sales reps. The ads dont sell themselves!)In addition to bringing the actual bacon  in the form of paying customers that make everything work  salespeople are the one group constantly in front of the very people youre selling to. They can visualize the market like no one else, help build the go-to-market strategy, and give you intimate customer and competitive insights for the overall company strategy.When I worked in sales at a major Fortune 100 pharmaceutical company in New Jersey years ago, there was one voicemail box where sales reps were asked to leave messages about stuff they were seeing in the field. Once I came in-house from being in field sales, I was dying to tap into that goldmine of market and product information.What I found was exasperating: Nobody had ever listened to it, for years  it was a black hole  so when I sat down to listen to them all, there were almost 10,000 messages! And they were gold, solid gold; we actually took a number of them and turned them into products that have since made millions.The point here is that there was a clear wall between sales and the rest of the organization. And thats the kind of divisive mindset that can kill your company.The Steve Jobs balanceSome people will say, but wait, does this mean we need to act on everything our salespeople are saying? Or, at the other end of the spectrum, theyll cite the famous Steve Jobs quote about how you cant design products by group feedback because people dont know what they want until you show it to them.Well, the likelihood that youre Steve Jobs is small, and it took him 40 years to become Steve Jobs (Apple had 3% market share for decades). And why would anyone ever want to miss out on such crisp and incredibly tangible information about their buyers?Of course you dont have to listen to everything sales shares; some insights will be real nuggets, and others will simply be too short-term for the long-term vision of the company.Sometimes reps cannot see a breakout idea and they have to trust product managements view that it really is a breakthrough. Finally, some views may be tainted because the salesperson is trying to land an unhealthy, overly customized deal for the company thats too far from the long-term roadmap or what the masses will actually buy. Its a balance. Either way, if youre not in contact with customers, you wont know how to strike this balance.So what should CEOs do?Include the sales force. Include them in product management meetings, executive meetings, any meeting where the product roadmap is being discussed. Its the only way to strike the balance between abstract vision and concrete truth. In most cases, I have found sales reps to be more creative than people expect. Sales reps can also be quick-witted and feisty, which brings a fun energy into the organization.Still, it wont be easy. Product managers wont like including sales at first, because they end up with a different caliber of truth-sayer in their meetings. A truth-sayer that very likely wont make their  or your  jobs smooth sailing.The bullshit meterA lot of product management is like being in a big, dark closet: Everyones agreeing with each other, in the office, satisfying themselves internally  and then six months later they pop out with a product. (And by product I mean a full product, not a feature release, though both of these should equally benefit from reps input.) Valuable time will sometimes be spent on features that should never have been developed in the first place  and that sales reps could have shot down immediately.Having a salesperson in the room means bringing in a bullshit meter. The sales rep is the one who is going to say, I know youre excited that this product was built on/with such-and-such, but so what? Thats not going to excite my customers. How is this differentiated from everything else out there? Theyll ask the hard questions.Instead of intellectually obsessing over the ideas, sales reps are the ones who ask, Yeah, but what am I actually selling?Without sales in the room, youre also missing out on a great opportunity to get instant customer feedback. Sales can also help convene customer boards with prospects who arent sold yet to answer the question what would make you change your mind about buying this product today.In fact, think of salespeople as a proxy for your customers. Its not just one of many hats they put on; sales reps think, live, and breathe customers all day, every day.The value that sales reps bring is different than marketing research, because its a concrete analysis of how to outperform. In some cases, sales reps, account managers, and customer service reps bring a type of well-rounded insight that cant be ignored (as my friend Grady Burnett, a veteran global sales & operations officer who worked at Facebook and Google argues), because they often know product and market needs better than anyone else  They are on the front line using it, describing it, discovering bugs, and learning about other competitive technologies.Facing real prospects and real customers early  while you have your powder of cash and fresh ideas  is how to build a company that can weather the storm, that can sustain any type of attack, grow faster than everyone else, and still delight customers.Truth-saying is also why I think its important to go far away from Silicon Valley to hire the early sales reps, especially as tech companies grow beyond the tech industry. (By the way, I think hiring managers should consider this even if theyre doing inside sales.) Selling to ones buddies is one of the worst things a company can do. The further away you go, though, the less the bullshit factor and the greater the bullshit detector  you will get real answers that can help you win.Inclusive = more thrustOne of the biggest problems in companies of scale is getting anyone to talk about and sell the new products with confidence. Sales reps have so much confidence in the successful existing products, why should they risk the customer relationship for a new product thats unproven and that they just heard about 10 days ago? By involving sales early, however, founders can overcome the problem of a product that launches but never turns into revenue because the sales reps are now net-promoting it to their troops.Having a more inclusive mindset around sales also forces companies to commit to a roadmap. Often, product management is let off the hook when it comes to taking accountability for a sharp roadmap: Yes, its on the roadmap, I just dont know what date exactly or Well we cant think beyond six months, were busy delivering this stuff now.Even if the roadmap changes, at least the sales reps have some guidelines around what it is theyre allowed to sell (or not). This, by the way, is a strong motivator for a strong sales team.Great sales teams are incredibly professional and organized; they have to be, in order to constantly outperform and raise their quotas. So the more clarity you give them, the better they can execute  and in much shorter time. Not only that, these are the deals that tend to renew easier, and buy earlier, as well.Note, sales reps still need a bit of flexibility in selling the product. But the alignment  or rather inclusion  of sales and product management is key. If nobody is giving any clarity around where the product roadmap is, and the sales rep doesnt fully get it or oversells the product (which happens a lot in software), then they make it practically impossible for the company to ever implement it.* * *When I ran SuccessFactors, I made it mandatory to have a sales rep in product management meetings. It cleaned up our talk, our bullshit, our nonsense all the fights. It completely changed the discussion, and for the better.It doesnt necessarily have to be the VP of Sales (especially in companies with more than 30 people); a successful senior sales rep would suffice. And to be clear: The product manager still owns the product, and has to own both short-and long-term thinking about that product. But if youre growing a company, you have to sell something, and now. Having salespeople in the room helps brings that urgency. The union of product management and sales done right produces so much more than they ever did before.Try it. But be sure to try it 100%; thats the only way it works.You might notice that in talking about the coin-operated idiots mindset I didnt mention anything about the coin  that is, how reps get paid and how best to compensate a sales force. Ill cover that in the next post. Just know that if salespeople dont perform, they dont make money, and thatmakes them easier to set targets and align expectations with than anyone else in your organization.It actually makes them some of themost honestpeople working for you since its all so straightforward and direct.Thats the furthest thing possible from coin-operated idiots