iZettle, the Swedish payments startupthat has been called the Square of Europe for its mobile-based point of sale services, is taking its business development strategy up another notch today: the company  which currently processes about $2.3 billion in transactions each year  is launching a new card reader that it will offer to merchants free of charge. The Lite reader, as it is called, will sit alongside iZettlesexisting piece of hardware that retails for around $75, depending on the market.The Lite is designed with a very notable difference in mind. Unlike the paid product, the new reader cut a very notable corner to keep its cost down: the device is no longer wireless, plugging into an iPhone, iPad or Android device by way of the audio socket  essentially standing in for the free dongles that iZettle used to give out to merchants when it first opened for business. (Those dongles have now been discontinued.)Jacob de Geer, CEO and founder of the company,acknowledges the move is bold. It will, after all, hit the companys margins, which will now be based only on is transaction fees of between 1.5% and 2.75%, depending on volumesa feeit already needs to divvy up with others in the payment processing chain. But he also describes it as a necessary move to try to reach a more critical mass of merchants to use its services.Werereally taking away the final hurdle oftaking card payments, he says. Thisis a calculated risk, but weve spent the last couple of yearsfiguring out the businessmodel and how we can make it happen. The trick, he says, is that iZettle is working with third parties to designthe hardware, taking that R&D cost, and production, out of iZettles balance sheet.The first markets that will see the Lite areU.K., Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Spain, Germany and the Netherlands. No news yet on when iZettle will roll it out to other places where it is building its business  namely Latin America.iZettle has not revealed updated customer numbers, but last yearde Geer noteda couple of hundred thousand users. De Geer says that iZettle is also close to opening up a new market either in Europe or Latin America but would not say which one or when.The move to slash the cost of a cardreader comes an a critical time for iZettle, which has raised nearly $110 million since 2010, and for the wider mobile payment market. Services like Square and PayPals Here appear to be stalling somewhat in their growth (with layoffs hitting the latter company as it prepares to be spun off from eBay); European startupsPaylevenand SumUp continue to be a competitive threat to iZettle; andeveryone is eagerly waiting to see what the long-term impact of Apple Pay, and Googles own mobile activities, will be. And thats before you consider what very large credit companies like Visa, MasterCard and American Express may do on their own.The big hurdle for everyone, however, is a fundamental lack of adoption among the long tail of small merchants, which still make up the majority of businesses in many markets and collectively constitute a very big opportunity for iZettle and the rest. Today, there are still 20million small businesses in Europe that do not take card payments.Its this long tail of merchants, who may not even be making very many monthly transactions, that iZettle is targeting with its Lite reader.What weve seen with the curreent device is that itsone of the fastest in the market, but it connects over Bluetooth so it is more complex than our initial product in the market, he says, referring to theoriginal plug-and-play dongle that iZettle developed. The Lite reader is meant to replace this he says. So with that in mind weve spoken with merchants who have up to 10 transactions per day. We found that the speed with the current terminal is not important, he adds. It will also give iZettle a way to upsell those users when and if their volumes to increase to their paid, faster terminal.