The U.K. voted in a General Election on Thursday. The result endsfive years of coalition government, and ushers in five years of true blueTory rule.Prime Minister David Camerons Conservative party now commands a slender but working majority of 12 MPs in the House of Parliament. The Tories erstwhile coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats  who tempered plans to expand digital surveillance powers via what critics dubbed aSnoopers Charter have been pushed aside and reduced to a rump of just eight MPs.The opposition Labour party has 232 MPs. The Scottish National Party, which all but wipedout Labour in Scotland, has 56 MPs  stepping into the third largest party seat justvacated by the Lib Dems.A Conservative majority governmenthas plenty of implications for the U.K. startups and the digital community.Heres a quick round up of a few of the tech issues and areas that are going to be in play over the course of this Parliament.More invasive surveillance.Hawkish Home Secretary Theresa May, who remains in post post-election, has made it clear she wants more powers to capture digital communications  ostensibly for anti-terrorism purposes.Specifically shes been pushing for legislation that willforce companies toretaindata about online conversations, social media activity, calls and text messages for 12 months. As notedabove, the Communications Databill was derailed in Parliament by the Lib Dems but now has the prospect of unblocked passage.Privacy advocates  and anyone who cares about civil liberties orinformationsecurity  should be rightly concerned about such sweepingdata capture powers.May has already expandeddata retention powers, via the Counter Terrorism and Security Act, which received royal assent in February. That law requires ISPs and mobile phone providers to retain more data than they previously were(to allow for IP matching),handing it over to the authorities on request. Now that the Tories have a majority they are in a positionto push for even greaterdata retention powers.The one fly in theointment here is Europe.Last July the coalition rushed through emergency surveillancelegislation (DRIPA) following an earlierEuropean Court of Justice rulingthat had struckdown European data retention powers on the grounds they were overlybroad. Europes top rights body has also rejected mass surveillance, calling for targeted, proportionate intelligence gathering.The U.K. Data Retention and Investigative Powers Act containsa sunset clause  meaning it terminates at the end of 2016, requiring new legislation to be tabled. So DRIPA will decay in this Parliament but Mays re-railed Communications Data bill is likely to reinstate its powers  and evengo further.Challenges to U.K. dragnet surveillancelegislation might be possible under European law, such as the Human Rights Act.However the Tories have previouslysaid they intend torepeal the Human Rights Act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights. So relying on Europe to combat an expanded surveillance state driven by hawkishConservatives might well be a forlorn hope.The encryption question.Cameron has made some similarly concerning comments aboutstrong encryption.Namely that he does not think it should exist again justifying this stance on amorphous grounds of national security. Thatposition really is baffling, unless its just misdirection to push greater surveillance powers through parliament, given that encryption is necessary to securely run key digital infrastructure to prevent unauthorized access  whether its to personal data, banking systems, or ecommerce.Quite what Cameronsvague pronouncements on perforating encryption will shake out to in this Parliament remains to be seen. But political pressure is clearly being applied to Internet companies to build backdoors into servicesin order tograntgovernment intelligence agencies access. Thisis very dumb policy indeed  given that backdoors ensureInternet services and dataare exploitable byhackers. But the U.K. appears aligned with U.S. policymaking here. The Five Eyes intelligence alliance has long beenexploiting domestic data protection loopholes to expand surveillance state capabilities by sharing data on each others citizens behind the scenes. Earlier this year Cameron was reportedly lobbying President Obamaon encryption workarounds. Hes not the only one either.The European question. Cameron has also committed to an in/out referendum on European Union membership during this Parliament. How the U.K. general public will vote on this question remains unclear, although it has arguably become more Eurosceptic in recent times  fueled by the economic downturnand amped up anti-immigration rhetoric from various quarters. What is certain is there will be a period of operational and regulatory uncertainty for U.K. businesses in the run up to thepublic vote on EU membership.The EU also recently unveileda strategy for buildinga digital single market across all 28 Member States. It wantstobreak down barriers to Europe-wide ecommerce by harmonizing cross-border taxes and regulation, co-operating on digital infrastructure builds and various other measures. If the U.K. votes to leave the EU it would be stepping outsidethis digital single market  albeit, the pace of the European project puts any such single market years out at this stage so likely not touching down within this Parliament.Spooks and startups.Earlier this year theToriespledgedmoney forencouraging homegrown cyber intelligenceinnovation  with U.K. NSA equivalent, the GCHQ spy agency, set to invest 3 billion over nine years, including working with hundreds of small businessestodevelop what Chancellor George Osborne dubbed the next stage of national cyber intelligence. If youre building a startup in this space, thats someenticing investment potential. If, however, youre building a security or pro-privacy business  or even operating a cloud business that needs to be able to gain customers trust in your service and the security of their data  then the U.K. government doubling down on surveillance apparatus might well have a more chilling effect on your startup prospects.Backing for robotics and other high tech.Last year the coalition published a strategy document promoting robotics  having identified robotics and autonomous technologies as areas of future economic growth for the country. Test sites for driverless vehicles have been established, a review undertaken and 100 million pledged. The Tories look setto continueseeking to clear the road and green light technology developments in this space. Other high tech focus areas for the Party include nanotech and the Internet of Things.Support for collaborative consumption and fintech. The government has also looked kindlyon collaborative consumption to-date  commissioninga review last fall with the aim of identifying obstacles to its growth in order to remove them. While it didnt agree with all of the de-regulation calls from eagerindustry players,the governments response to the review was pretty bullish  including agreeing to speeding up the process of criminal record checks to grease the feetofthe sharing economy.Fintech and digital payments areanother area of interest  with Tory Minister Ed Vaizey telling TechCrunch Disrupt London last October:We want to make these e-payments faster, quicker, we want to make it as safe as possible. And we want to look at the kind of technologies that the digital currencies use to allow end systems to operate in a de-centralized way, with no intermediaries. We want to look at how the new technologies can benefit consumers and the wider economy.Startup tax breaks and loans. The Conservative Party manifesto included a pledge to treble a government startup loans program in the new Parliament  aiming to provide loans to75,000 entrepreneurs over the next five years.The Tory-led coalition extended existing startup investment tax breaks  such astheEnterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) and Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS)  and also created a number of new Enterprise Capital Funds via the government ownedBritish Business Bank. Just before the election, more than 90 tech entrepreneurs co-signed a letter published in The Guardian expressingpersonal support for the Conservatives on the grounds of their tech-friendly attitude.Computing education in focus. The coalition overhauled the computing curriculum in schools in England, requiringbona fide coding be taught to kids of primary age  starting last fall. They also instigated a review of computer science degreeswith a view to assessing graduate employability. Andfunded a set of free online courses promoting digital business skills. Continued Tory focus on boosting domestic technology skills to improve digitalemployability seems likely.Which brings me toImmigration caps.The Conservatives talked tough on immigration during the election campaign, and pledged to maintain their cap on skilled economic migration from outside the EU at 20,700 during the next Parliament. Theyve also promised student visa system reform to cut the number of students who stay after their visas expire. U.K. startups needing to bring in skilled staff from overseas will continue to face hurdles getting the talent they need to powertheir businesses into the country.Tech City gets a new mayor. Londons mayor Boris Johnson will be moving on within the Parliament as his term comes to an end in 2016. Hes been a vocal supporter of the Tech City initiative for London, setting up the $133 millionLondon Co-Investment Fund (LCIF)to encourage and support burgeoning startups in the capital. Johnson wont be leaving political lifeentirely of course, given hes just been re-elected to Parliament to serve asa Conservative MP. And with the Prime Minister also set to step down as Tory leaderwithin the current Parliament Johnson is widely seen to be maneuveringfor the top job himself.TechCrunchs Steve OHear contributed to this article