Imagine a company that installs an appliance to monitor your network for malicious activity, thenbroadcasts that security data to a cloud service and has experts watchingand responding to any real threats.Thats what Traversal Networks, a member of theSummer Y Combinator2015 class, is trying to do. In fact, the company was makingits pitch at YC Demo Day shortlyafter I spoke to co-founderRyan MacArthuryesterday.MacArthur has a strong background in cybersecurity including stints as an engineer at Symantec and work as a researcher and consultant. He says all of this knowledgehelped him understand the needs of the security market.What he saw, particularly at the mid-market levelwith firmsbetween100 and 1000 employees, were companies doing a poor job on securitybecause they simply couldnt afford to hire experts or who were investing in expensive solutions with no clear idea what to do with the information these systems were feeding them.Its all well and good to get an alert that your network has been breached, its another matter to understandhow to handle that. And even security information sharing services couldnt really help in this regard.Its really hard to see if this traffic is malicious or Chrome is updating itself. It has a similar look, MacArthur explained as an example of the complexity companies face trying to understand this kind of information.Thats where Traversal Networks comes in. It will act as your security department, sifting through the information that gets fed from the security appliance. When it finds an issue, the analyst contacts the customer to discuss the correct course of actionto take.The technologywe built helps people to tap into our technology and have it monitored by our experts, he said.The beauty of collecting data from multiple companies (eventually) is that analysts will know about issues across the network from all of the customers, and be able to share threat information within the tool itself. This will make every customersaferbyimplementing the safety ofthe herd idea in a new way via shared data.MacArthur claims that the way they have set up the system will allow one analyst to monitor 100 customers in a day and that should limit the amount of personnel they have to hire to keep track of client data as they grow the business.The company just recently launched and it has a handful or early customers, one of which is ready to go into pilot. The founders aretalking to investors now, and although MacArthur couldnt say much about it, he hinted they could have more to sharein the not-to-distant future.As for the YC experience, he couldnt say enough about how helpful it was in providing the initial cash and access to world-class experts who could help them refine and build their idea. While Traversal was one of the few enterprise companies in the class, he said they still got lotsof help.They have a bunch of amazing mentors who are experts at enterprise. While [most of] the companies in our batch are not going to talk about enterprise sales and products, the greater network has great experience at this, he said.As for the future, MacArthur says he has a network of former colleagues he hopes to tap as soon as the company begins to expand. Within the next 12-18 months he aimsto have a minimum of 150 customers on the network and have added anti-virus protection to his product family.Its an ambitious goal, but he thinks the market need warrants it.