Enterprises collectively spend $500 billion annually working with system integrators to link upthe apps and services they use to run their businesses so that they can work together. Now, tappinginto the growth of APIs for everything, a new companyout of London, tray.io, hasbuilta platform that it calls an integration marketplace, which wants tomake costly IT integrations a thing of the past.Ithas raised a seed roundof $2.2 millionled by True Ventures, with participation from Redpoint Ventures and Angelpad, where it spent a period incubating the company. It will use the funding to continue to build outits product and to putdown roots in Silicon Valleyto build out partnerships.In total tray.io has now raised just under $3 million, includinga previous$600,000 angel roundfrom Passion Capital, Ballpark Ventures, Firestartr, Andy McLoughlin, Tom Hulme, Ustwo founders Mills and Sinx, FIG and Richard Fearn.Tray.io has another connection to ustwo  the app studiothat may be best known as the makers of Monument Valley. It is based out of Ustwos London offices aspart of a new program Ustwohas started to find and growstartups in the area(others that have launched include Dice, the music ticketing startup).You can think of tray.io as an IFTTT for the enterprise world. Just as IFTTT lets more tech-minded consumerscreate recipes that trigger actions between different apps andconnected objects that havent been built into the apps themselves  for example, instantly uploading an Instagram photo to a Dropbox folder or Flickr, or triggering temperature changes on a Nest thermostat based on whether you are in the room or how far you are from home tray.io has created a the enterprise equivalent: a catalogue of connectors between popular business apps and other services that let them speakto each other.Why not just create these in IFTTT? Thetwist here is that business apps tend to be far more complex than the average consumer app in terms of functionality and data, and so what tray.io is essentially created is a very user-friendly way of visualising actions for people to set up scripts, using drag-and-drop icons.Connections between services can be created by people with no technical expertise. However, those who do have programmers on staff and want to add more functionality on top of that can also go into the code at this point to further customise things.Beingable to push data between services in the past has requiredhiring an engineer and building something from the ground up, Rich Waldron, co-founder and CEO of tray.io, says. Its an incredibly expensive and time consuming process. What were providingis a path to construct services that areentirely bespoke to a businesswithout needingan engineer to put them in place.As one simple example of how the app works, take sign-ups for further information on a website. A user whose name is added to that list can have his name/email address checked against a larger contact database that gives more detail about his or her actual job, and that data can then be used to figure out how best to follow on from that lead, sending the new contact to one sales rep or another.The sales rep, meanwhile, would be ablenotonly to see the name but potentially get more intelligence about the company that new prospectworks for. And at the same time the propsects will get added to a larger database for future marketing. All of this flow can be created through tray.ios platform.Tray.io is tapping into a very hot area. APIs are exploding today, says Waldron. There is an expectation for one everywhere, butalso an expectation from businesses that they should be able to build into them.And as such, it is not without competition, with much larger companies like Mulesoft also making some big strides in providing platforms to connect APIsand others like Tibco, Snaplogic andsmaller startups like YC alumZapier. Tray.ioclaims to beeasier to use and less expensive than the rest.This is also what has driven investor interest in the startup, too.There are other services out there, but I have been looking to find a companydoing what tray.io does for the last seven or eight years, says Puneet Agarwal, a partner at True who led his firms investment in tray.io.Agarwals own background is in integration and so he knows the pain first-hand. In the SaaSworld there is something like 5,000 apps with 11,000 APIs. Thereneeds to be a new platform forthis world that iseasy to use and not cumbersome. Thesimplicity of tray.ios connectors and its workflow and product shows they are thinking about it the right way, he says.