Wearables for women arealready having a big year. Companies like smart ring maker Ringly and jewelry maker Cuff have both raised significant rounds of new funding in early 2015, as they work to bring their attractive smart jewelry to the mainstream. Now, a new competitor Trellie ispoised to enter the space this spring, thanks to a newly inked design and distribution partnership with a jewelry manufacturer whoworks with brands and retailers includingHenri Bendel, Vince Camuto, Marc Jacobs, Kate Spade, HSN, Lord & Taylor, Nordstrom and Macys.The manufacturer, Glitterrings, isnt a household name, admits Trellie CEO Claude Aldridge, but they do white-label their jewelry for a number of well-known fashion brands. And while Aldridge isnt prepared to make any announcements about what this means for Trellie, he would say that the company has been in discussions with Trellies partners and others, includingTrellies retailer connections.The department stores  these people are all over getting wearables for females into their stores as soon as possible, says Aldridge. And its not just us, he adds.Just six months ago, the retailers were worrying about how they could even fit wearables ontotheir stores shelves, Aldridgeexplains, but thingshavesince changed dramatically. Now, theyre like how soon can you get me products?,' hesays.Trellie got off the ground in 2012 in Kansas City, and its first product was a charm that hung from womens handbags, alerting owners to incoming calls and texts. Kickstarter backers funded the project with a $33,000 investment, and the team shipped around 4,000 units.But what Aldridge says he and co-founder Jason Reidlearned from the experience is that two guys from Kansas City had no right to design beautiful products for women, he jokes. Instead, they realized the better path forward may be to partner with established brands, allowing Trellieto focus on the part they know the best: the technology.Trellie holds a patent that addresses how wearables can process incoming communications like calls and texts, and apply contextual information to those events  something that can help it establish itself in the space, and better compete with others smart jewelry makers.Today, Trelliemakesa small nugget around 15 mm x10 mm in size that can be moved in between different accessories, like rings and bracelets. In conjunction with a mobile application, Trellies smart jewelry can light up or vibrate when youre receiving calls or texts, or it can notify you of calendar events, and soon, more.This spring, Trellie will begin to sell its starter kit including a sliver- or gold-plated ring, the nugget, and a charger for $99 to $129 (retail) in stores and via pre-orders on its website. Alongside this kit, consumers will also be able to opt to buy accessories like bracelets for $35 to $50, in order to have more jewelry options.Aldridge explains this modularity is a differentiating factor, when compared with something like Ringly, because mainstream consumers dont necessarily want to wear the same jewelry every day  and they certainly dont want to spend $200 on each new piece just have some variety.The companyplans to launch with 10 different styles of accessories in addition to the starter kit, each of which comes in four or five colors. Glitterings, which has its own manufacturing,will handle producing the items and getting them to stores.The smart jewelry market, however, is not yet proven. While theres certainly some fascination with the idea of connected devices, thanks to successes like the Fitbit or the forthcoming Apple Watch, theres still the possibility that women will view connected jewelry as something of a gimmick. Will these pieces become a part of womens everyday lives, or eventually get shoved in the back of drawers as consumers tire of constantly having to charge their rings, bracelets, and pendants? And will any of the jewelry being shipped ever extend beyond thecostume space, which, thanks to the size of the technology required at present, still often involves over-sized cocktail rings or bulky bands and bracelets.With Trellies nugget (which the company claims its making smaller in the future), theres at least thepotential to allow fashion brands to create their own lines of smart jewelry  something they know how to do better than tech startups. It will be interesting to see, though, if Trellie can make those sorts of deals happen.To date, Trellie has raised a little over a million, in a seed round led byRon LeMay, the former CEO of Sprint PCS and Japan Telecom and current Chairman of GoGo Wireless. The company is now in the process of raising an additional seed round, but isnt disclosing details.