Point an 11-month-old, Palo Alto-based home equity marketplace that plans to take peoples homes and make themcompletely liquid, divisible and tradable by letting ownerssellfractional equity in themis raising funding, shows anew SEC filing.Its a fascinating concept thatwe thinkhas only been tried in the past with vacation rentals by high-end developers, including Four Seasons and Ritz-Carlton.Point was co-founded by Eddie Lim, who co-founded the e-commerce payment platformTrialPay, which Visa acquired in 2013 for undisclosed terms.Dont be surprised to see Andreessen Horowitz lead or participate in this round.In August, the Sand Hill Road firm brought aboard another TrialPay co-founder (and Lims fellow Harvard classmate), Alex Rampell, as a general partner to focus on financial tech startups.In an interview with the New York Times about his then-new post, Rampellsaid he viewedbanking and insurance as ripe for disruption.Rampellalso said he spied untapped opportunities in new asset classes, citing a future where people sell equity stakes in their homes. Why not sell a portion of your home? he asked Times reporter Steve Lohr.Interestingly, the interview attracted the attention of one savvy commenter, who wrote at the site:Fintech is going to be super active in the years to come. And Im sure Rampell and [Andreesen Horowitz] are smart enough not to really reveal their idea. But the idea that investors would buy an equity stake in a private residence without making it a mortgage loan. . .bears a lot of close examination, as anybody involved in the business of equity, loans and collateral will quickly see.Is this just inert capital?As an owner of the equity do you have a say, in, for example, renovations and upkeep?Can they fire the management/resident minority (10-15%) shareholder?Not saying there isnt something here  thereis. [I]magine the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund investing in a 10% equity stake of all the houses in a 10-city block area in a blighted neighborhood in, say, Detroit, and then leveraging that investment to improve the value of the entire neighborhood. . . Just sorry that Steve Lohr didnt know to take the opportunity to probe a little.Were veryinterested in learning more, too. In fact, weve reached out to both Lim and Rampell for more details on this Thanksgiving eveandhope to have the full story for you soon.