One of blogging site Tumblrs flagship features, the reblog  meaning the reposting of another persons content onto your own site  is getting a significant makeover starting today. The company is introducing a change as to how these reblogs appear on users dashboards, making them far more readable than they were previously.No longer a long list of blockquote indents, whereeach new user adds their own commentary to what was said before, the new reblogs will simply list each comment one after the other. This makes the comments easier to read, but also makes the Tumblr post much longer than when theolder-style reblogs were in effect.This may seem like a minor feature tweak, but its actually a huge overall of what it means to use Tumblr.Like many social media properties, a lot of Tumblr entries are actually repostings of something another userhad published earlier. In addition to the content itself  often an image, web link, video or block of text  the rebloggerwould then add their own commentary to the item in question.As posts become popular, those reblog chains become more difficult to parse. Its hard to tell who said what,or even read the comment in the first place as the captionshave less room before they have to wrap to the next line.In posts that go viral, the reblog chains can end up looking more like this:Thats a lot of scrolling, before you get to the part with the comments!Of course, this problem is exacerbated on mobile devices, whose limited screen sizes make long reblogs even harder to read. And like every company today, Tumblr is looking to improve its mobile products usability to the benefit of both its users and its advertisers.However, while this may have been a user interface design flaw from the start, the Tumblr reblog became one of the networks defining features  a way it differentiated itself from other sites, and gave it a unique style.Like Tumblrs teenspeak, the punctuation-less,rhetorical speechthat fills the network, the ability to understand and decipher the reblog was something that Tumblrs younger users were easily capable of, while older or more infrequent users may have been left scratching their heads.And like many things in the teen world, the ability to exclude adults from the conversation soonbecame one of the advantages to this messy, confusing formatting style.
Tumblr users reactions to the new style, so far, seem divided.While there are always thosewho fight against any change on a site simply because its new and different, others with concerns make some valid points. For example, though its easier to read on mobile, the new reblogswill involve more scrolling, which isnt necessarily an advantage. (This could be modified by removing user icons from the new design, which lengthen the posts.)In addition, the change makes it more difficult for those who use the service for role-playing, others have noted.But some say the new style is actually an improvement, and will be welcome on mobile.
However, the advantage to the new style, beyond being more readable, is that it will no longer make misattributions so easy.This has been a problem in the past, as some users would edit the text that came before their reblogin order to make it look like people had said something they did not. They also wont be able to selectively delete captions when reblogging. And original posters will now always get credited as the source, no matter how many reblogs occur, as their username will be stuck to the bottom of posts.Making sure original posters are being credited for their work is something that Tumblr has focused on with other changes in the recent past, as well. For instance, when it introduced its GIF search engine feature, it also tweaked the way GIFs appear on posts, making sure that the images creator was alway properly cited.The updated reblog feature is rolling out today across all posts going forward, as well as those that were publishedin the past, says Tumblr. But the new look is only for dashboards  users blogs will continue to display reblogs based on their themes settings.