Tune, a company that bills itself as the enterprise platform for mobile marketing, is announcing that it has raised $27 million in Series B funding.Founded by twin brothers Lucas and Lee Brown (pictured above with CEO Peter Hamilton), Tune was previously known as HasOffers  it rebranded last summer, giving it what Hamilton called a more flexible, bigger name.HasOffers was the companys first product, which helps ad networks manage their relationships with publishers. The second product was MobileAppTracking, which helps mobile publisher see which ad campaigns are driving the most installs, engagement, and purchases. Those are still the companys two main offerings, but it sounds there are new products in the works.Weve really focused on increasing our product development  we did some acquisitions and got a lot done, Hamilton told me. So were going to start launching things over the next couple of quarters.He added that ad attribution has become table stakes  every marketer needs and expects it, but its not enough on its own. The biggest request from customers has been to create a unified dashboard for paid and organic activity, which is what Tune is working towards  its helped on the organic (i.e., non-ad) side by the acquisition of MobileDevHQ.And the funding, of course, should accelerate all of this. The round was led by Icon Ventures (formerly Jafco Ventures), with participation from Performance Equity Management and Accel Partners. (Accel led the companys $9.4 million Series A back in 2013.) Icons Jeb Miller is joining Hamilton, Lucas and Lee Brown, and Accels Rich Wong on the board of directors.Tune says that as of this month, it has reached a $60 million revenue rate, and that its used by customers including Uber, Sephora, Trulia, Alaska Airlines, EA, and Supercell  in fact, it says its used by 60 percent of the top 20 grossing apps in the App Store.Among other things, that suggests the company continues to grow a year after what seemed like a potentially significant blow  its removal from Facebooks Mobile Measurement Partner program.Im just incredibly proud of the team for adjusting to that, said Hamilton, who was once a professional opera singer (which really has nothing to do with this story, but is just cool). Were focused on helping marketers do what they need to do. Our retention has been phenomenal, and our customers are committed to the growth of our technologies.You can read more in this company blog post.