New video streaming services are launching left and right these days, and nowTime Warner-owned Turner is looking to get a piece of the action for itself, too. The company announced this morning plans to debutan on-demand service focused on films, including both indie titles and mainstream Hollywood hits from major studios, including Warner Bros. Called FilmStruck, the service is being developed by Turner Classic Movies (TCM) in collaboration with the Criterion Collection, and will arrivein the fall.The content library will include films from studios like JanusFilms (which will bring over 1,000 titles), plus Flicker Alley, Icarus, Kino, Milestone and Zeitgeist, as well as larger studios. It will also be home to titles like Seven Samurai, A Hard Days Night, A Room With A View, Blood Simple, My Life As A Dog, Mad Max, Breaker Morant and The Player, the company notes.John Martin, chairman and CEO of Turner described the service in an announcement as something thats tailor-made for the diehard movie enthusiast, explaining that FilmStrucks aim will be to offer mix of content, including independent, foreign and art house films.The services film selection will be refreshed on a continual basis, says Turner, and will be accessible on range of consumer devices.Of course, Turners isnt the only one trying to carve out a niche by focusing more heavily onmovies while competitors like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu invest heavily in new, original TV series for consumers to binge. The streaming movie serviceTribeca Shortlist, which comes from Lionsgate and Tribeca Enterprises (the Tribeca Film Festival org), is also touting its own movie streaming services quality and curation as its advantage over Netflix, for example.The problem with these offerings, however well-designed or smartly curated they may be, is that theyre entering into whats now becoming an overly crowded market. Even at just a few dollars per month, its hard for consumers to justify spending the extra funds when they already subscribe to Netflix orAmazon Prime (which includes streaming TV and movies), and perhaps one or two others, like HBO or Hulu.That makes these film-only movie services with limited selections niche competitors at best. They may get a core group of true movie buffs to subscribe, but the larger audience will be satisfied by whats already available on the top services.And even if the studios were to pull their catalogs entirely from those services, those companies are ready to step in with their own original content to replace it. Both Amazon and Netflix are doing feature films themselves these days, for instance. And they arent bad either  Netflixs debut film even got Oscar nods.Turner has not yet revealed pricing for FilmStruck or an exact launch date. However, the company said the service will be ad-free, andcompetitively priced compared with othersubscription-based services.