One of the biggest problems with the Twitter-owned live streaming app Periscope from day one hasbeen its notification system.While push notificationsare a useful way to immediately discover which broadcasters you follow have just started a live stream so you can tune in and join in real time, its lack of granular controls meant users were facedwith what could often be a deluge of alerts. And frankly, it got annoying. So annoying that, sometimes, users would just turn off push notifications altogether.Today, Periscope is addressing this problem with the release of a new version of its iOSapp that, at last, includes more granular control over yournotifications. The app also now includes support for iOS 8 Handoff, which means you can watch Periscope live in your Macs Safari web browser.First, withMute Users, as the silencingfeature is called, Periscope allows you toconfigure on a per-user basis whether you want to receive an instant alert on your smartphone that anindividual you follow is going live.If you choose to mute a user, youll still be able to view their broadcasts in your main feed within the Periscope app, but yourphone wont buzz incessantly with alerts. This can be especially helpful for those busier broadcasters you follow, or those who you only want to tune into on occasion  like when yourebored and browsing through Periscope in search of someone or something to watch.Previously, Periscope had offered the option to mute notifications for three hours, but it was more of an all-or-nothing switch. The company had also earlier faced complaints about its apps noisiness, asit used to notify you every time someone followed you. After the initial ego boost confirming your popularity (ha!) the feature became so frustrating to users  who then vented so loudly  that the company ended up turning off those notifications by default.More broadly speaking, the idea that push notifications should be used somewhatselectively when it comes to video content isnt an ideathats unique to Periscope, however  YouTube also recently rolled out an updated app that allows viewers to receive notifications when their favorite channels are updated. Similar toPeriscopes per-user mute setting, YouTubes notificationfeature is something thats controlled at the channel level, not the app level.The new mute option will likely be something thatswelcomed by those who imported theirTwitter contact lists into the app, and then proceeded to follow a largenumber of favorite accounts only to later realizetheir mistake as the app grew in popularity.Of course, now, to quiet things down, youll have to make the adjustment on each noisy account youve had enough of  and that could still be a time-consuming process.While mute is onestandout feature in the new release, the updated iOS app also includes a few other new options, too, including the ability to view your viewerstats for past broadcasts, and the ability to set your language preferences so youll see more relevant videos in your global list.But even better, the app now allows you to move between devices thanks to added support for iOS 8 Handoff. That means you can now watch Periscope live via Safari on Mac, for example. (The company recently addedsupport for web replays, we should note.)Handoffrequires that both devices are available via Bluetooth, and are being used withthesame iCloud account. Italso requires youre on iOS 8 and a compatible version of OS X. (More info on how to setup Handoff on your devices is here.)Start watching a broadcast on one device and seamlessly transition to another with iOS 8+ Handoff support pic.twitter.com/h9o9POfA83 Periscope (@periscopeco) July 27, 2015The mute broadcasters feature has not yet made its way to the Android version of Periscope, which still says youll need to unfollow users to stop receiving their alerts.Correction: In tests, we had trouble getting the feature to work with Chrome. But Twitters own video shows this is supported.