As promised earlier this fallat Twitters developer conference Flight, the companys long-neglected Mac application has been updated today with a hostof new features that put the app more on parwith Twitters other applications for mobile and web. Specifically, the revamped Mac app now includes support for things like inline video playback, GIFs in the timeline, muting, group Direct Messages, quoting tweets, and more. It also introducesthe option for anew, darker theme and a Today Center Widget which puts Twitter highlights on your desktop.And finally, Twitters Mac app will now display hearts instead of stars  reflecting the recently controversialshift in the terminology and iconography for Twitters favoriting mechanism.Twitter 4.0, as the updated app is called, isnt just a collection of addedfeatures, though it also offers a new design with changes to its icons, buttons, and interactions, the company says. Even the desktop icon has changed to a round icon from the previousmore square-ish one.Twitter had not statedwhen, precisely, the new Mac client would arrive at the time of its reveal this October, only saying that it was due in a few months. That had many speculating that the updated app would ship before year-end. And just in the nick of time, it did.Many users today interact with Twitter on their desktop computers, which is why it was difficult to see the Twitter Mac application languishing for so long with no updates or improvements. However, that also allowed room for other competitors to gain traction on the desktop, including popular third-party Twitter client Tweetbot, for example.Its worthing pointing out that the Twitter Mac app isnt yet feature-complete with Twitters other platforms one notable new feature that appears to be missing in the Twitter Mac app is support for polls. But at least Twitter Mac users starting todaywill have an app that doesnt feel as outdated as before.While its good to see the Mac appfinally getting some attention, its unclear how important the desktopappis to the company. Case in point: TechCrunch heard that this version of the Twitter app was actually built by contractors, and not in-house. Weve reached out to Twitter for comment on this matter, and will update if we hear back.