During his keynote at Twitters developer conference, Flight, CEO Jack Dorseypromised developers that there would be more listening and more transparency from the company.Dorsey asked anyone and everyone (especially the 1,500 developers from over 39 countries in attendance) to submit feedback to the company about its product and how it can do better using the hashtag #HelloWorld:Tweet at us what youd like to see at Twitter. Tweet with the hashtag #helloworld, we will take all of this information and input to make decisions over time to make sure the platform is something youre proud of and will use more and more. It wont happen overnight, but Im convinced well make the right decisions.Today, Twitter updated its progress on how thats going.In a blog post, the team shared:In total, there were 5,746 Tweets in the first three days after Jacks Flight keynote. Of these, roughly 700 focused on the platform. The majority were about the Twitter consumer app or our business in general. We also reviewed the conversations that sprung up online, including at Hacker News.Im sure that the company has gotten way more than 5,746 at this point and more will be on the way, though maybe at a slower pace.Follow-through is key for regaining momentum with third-party developers  and current Twitter users in general. The company, which is working on new products and approaches to kickstarting growth, needs all of the help it can get. Whether you think that the approach is lip service or not, saying that youre going to do something and then doing it is important at every phase in the life of a company.Twitter didnt offer many specifics into some of the top requests, only saying that there was lots of feedback about Moments. Hopefully, when something gets updated, the company will point back to the folks who made the suggestion.Here are the top items the company hasheard about for the consumer product:Ability to edit Tweets
Remove the 140-character limit (and an equal number of requests not to remove it)
Improve the Lists feature
Accessibility improvements across the product
Lots of feedback about Moments
Suggestions on how to improve searchPlatform requests came in four areas, the company said:Make changes to Twitters API rate limits and token restrictions
Make more APIs public and make beta applications open
Provide more transparency and a clearer upgrade path to our Gnip offerings
Clarify the Developer Agreement and Developer PolicySo transparencymore than before, remains to be seen how things go moving forward.One thing thoughPlease lord, dont do the editing tweets part. Kim Kardashian is still on my make-believe-shitlist for suggesting that one.