Twitter this week rolled out new features toits mobile developer platform, Fabric, aimed atexpanding access to Twitter timelines from third-party applications. With an update toTwitter Kit, the platform componentthat lets developers authenticate users viaTwitter and showcase tweet embeds within apps, developers are now also able to integrate Twitter timelines within their iOS or Android applications with just a few lines of code.Previously, Twitter Kit only allowed for embedding tweets in mobile apps and styling them to match up with the apps theme. But with support for Twitter timelines, app developers are able to show entire timelines in their app with minimal effort. This includes the ability to show a user timeline  that is, a timeline from a single Twitter account  as well as search timelines. This latter option allows an app developer to display search results based on key terms that are relevant to the app experience, explains Twitter.As with tweet embeds, the timelines can be customized to blend in with the apps theme by adjusting the background colors and even the color of the text itself.Transportation app Citymapper is one of the first to use the Twitter user timelines integration, which allows it to keep its customers informed about public transportation status updates and delays. Meanwhile, Regal Cinemas is using the search timelines integration to include relevant movie reviews in its application.Related to this feature, Twitter Kit also now includes guest authentication, which is what makes these timelines accessible to anyone  not just those who have logged in with Twitter. This addition allows an app to access the necessary content from the Twitter API without needing a user context, saysTwitter.While these updates are aimed at developers, theyre a part of Twitters larger agenda to more deeply integrate its service on mobile devices by way of third-party apps.With Fabric, the idea is that Twitter gains the ability to reach more users than it could by way of its own native applications alone  like Twitter, Vine and Periscope. Instead, mobile consumers would end up accessing and using Twitter by way of other apps  even if they never established an account onTwitter.com itself.Some features in Fabric, like Twitter Kit or the Crashlytics bug detection and crash reporting solution, are designed to make developers lives a little easier. But they co-exist alongside other features that impact Twitters bottom line, like MoPub, which lets developers introduce ads into their apps with just a few clicks. (And Twitter gets a cut of that revenue).Of course, for Fabric to besuccessful, Twitter has to convince developers its worthwhile, and thats something that Twitter may struggle with. The company has a history of alienating its developer community, shutting off access to its API and feature set over the years, and killing a number of businesses along the way. Most recently, it pulled the rug out from under former Twitter firehose partner DataSift, whose social data platform has now fallen victim to Twitters decision to move into the space where it operates.The fallout from moves like these is that developers today can sometimesview Twitter as a capricious platform providerwhose offerings today could easily disappear tomorrow. That may have them seeking alternative ways to enhance their apps with social features, or put them off from usingany of the other options Twitter Fabric provides.