The all-important topic for Twitter, and the one that Wall Street is eyeing the closest, is whether the company can scrounge up some new users to join the service.Yep, growth.This quarter last year, the company reported 284 million monthly active users. Wasnt pretty. Last quarter the company reported 316 million active users to which then-interim-CEO Jack Dorsey said we are not satisfied.This quarter? It creptto just 320 million monthly active users, (307 million without the SMS fast followers).US growth didnt move for the third straight quarter.Looks like Twitter's ceiling for U.S. penetration is 20% of the population: pic.twitter.com/m3uwllNgar Amir Efrati (@amir) October 27, 2015Twitters stock was up nearly 2 percent before market close, but bouncy (stock is jumping around like a bean on a skillet in a fire on top of the rockies said Alex Wilhelm), and just dropped over 10 percent on earnings hit.Dorsey had this to say on Twitters roadmap and quest for true growth:Weve simplified our roadmap and organization around a few big bets across Twitter, Periscope, and Vine that we believe represent our largest opportunities for growth.Its definitely going to take time to make up the lacking signed-up audience, but the products that Dorsey has the team focused on are meant to bring them in. The company said that it reaches over a billion eyeballs, which is probably true, it just needs to convert a slice of that into signed up users. If Moments and Polls dont do it for them, the company is going to have to keep the tweaks coming. I suspect they will.Many, including me, think that the Direct Message product is ripe for ripping out as a separate app,  la Facebooks Messenger. A platform built upon that product could surely help, too.With a new CEO, COO and streamlined engineering teams and roadmaps in place, a lot is changing. But sadly growth hasnt yet, which is whats angering Wall Street.Want to watch the earnings call? Join us on the Periscopes. Be sure to catch our q3'15 Periscope, going live at 2p PT. Our COO @adambain is joining us going forward! https://t.co/HPM96WqENJ Jack (@jack) October 27, 2015