Were hearing from multiple sources that theres a new fund coming out of Betaworks, andTwitter is chipping money into it.Twitter is investing at least $10 million in the new fund, according to one source. We dont know the total size of the venture. In the past, Betaworks has focused on smallerseed investments and has stayed away from outsizedfunds. Another previous one, for example, was $8 million. We werent able to learn if there are any additional participants.Theres already a connection between Betaworks and Twitter. Betaworks previously invested in two companies that were acquired by Twitter: TweetDeck and Summize. Twitter acquired Summize in 2008, in which Betaworks founder John Borthwick was an investor  through Betaworks. Twitter bought TweetDeck, also backed by Betaworks, for $40 million in 2011. It also counted itself a Twitter investor.We dont know if this is a new Betaworks fund, or a new separate fund altogether.Getting into a fund with Betaworks makes sense for Twitter given the firms track record of supplying Twitter with some decent acquisitions and funding companies in that part of the Twitter ecosystem, expanding how the product is used. While TweetDeck hasnt necessarily been a huge grab for scale, its adored by Twitter power users and businesses for managing their Twitter presence  something that could keep its most active (and loudest) user base satisfied as it makes changes to the classic Twitter experience. TweetDeck, for example, still returns Tweets in reverse time order, while the new Twitter timeline includes an algorithmic touch to surface tweets that arent necessarily in time order.Theres another aspect here as well. Twitter and Betaworks can target companies that will be closely tied to Twitters services. That would help Twitter keep a close tie with startups that could potentially compete with it or cannibalize it down the line.For Betaworks, theres a benefit to getting into a new fund that includes Twitter. By default, it gives those startups in the portfolio more exit options: Twitter will already hold a stake and might consider additional investment  or an acquisition.Betaworks has had a decent string of success lately, tapping into viral services that have found sticky usage on social platforms. Giphy  recently funded at a $300 million valuation  has popular integrations with both Slack and Twitter. Its also an investor in Howdy, one of the first bots launching on the Slack platform, which also picked up a new investment from Slacks bot fund.Twitter already has its own investment fund  Twitter Ventures  which was previouslyled by Mike Gupta and has made a handful of strategic investments in startups developing services that work directly with Twitter. Its not clear how a Betaworks partnership would work with that existing entity.Twitter partnering with another group on a new fund may be a first for the company, but its not unprecedented. Many larger business have investment arms that tap into startup incubators as a way of growing their exposure to new tech and talent and to widen their platforms. TechStars worked, until recently, with Disney and still partners with a lot of other larger companies. Funds like this help larger companies get to the front of the line when they want to acquire companies, and gives them insight into tools that might naturally fit into their portfolio of services.Coincidentally, this week Google also confirmed its own startup fund and incubator  although its effort, Lab 120, is aimed at offering a developer space to its own employees.Weve reached out to Twitter and Betaworks for comment, and will update the post when we hear back.