Twitter Moments,the feature thats meant to highlight the best of Twitter in a more magazine-like format, has so far failed to incite further user growth, as was initially hoped. But the company is continuing to develop and improve the experience, which offers collections of tweets and associated media content in a separate tab in Twitters application both on the web and mobile. Today, Twitter says its making it easier for users to explore the links in Moments when oniOS and Android, by rolling out support for AMP-powered web pages when available.Followingthe update, Twitter users can now tap on a link to a news article, blog, recipe or other item from directly within the Moment itself, the company says. Then, when youve finished browsing, you can easily return to the Moment by clicking out.When Moments first launched, itsmini-stories would combine text tweets, photos, videos, and Vines, but they didnt support full articles or livePeriscope videos. In the weeks since, the company has been honingthe product, including giving it a more prominent positionon Twitter itself.Todaysupgrade, however, isa notable change in terms of Twitters plan to work with publishers on its platform, akin to something like Facebooks Instant Articles. Butunlike Facebooks effort, which focuses on making publisher contentload faster and be more easily read by hosting it directly on Facebook, Twitter is actually directing traffic back to publishers sites.publishers can continue telling their stories on their own websites, all while also accessing Twitters global audience,writes Andrew Fitzgerald of Twitters Moments Curation team, on the company blog.Though Twitter is sending traffic off its platform in these cases, its still focused on a mobile-optimized experience. The company has been participating in Googles open source AMP Project, an effort focused on accelerating the web on mobile devices by utilizing a new, open framework, AMP HTML, thats based on existing web technologies. The end result is more lightweight web pages that arent as bogged down with slow-loading, extraneous code. AMP pages can still offer features publishers require, like analytics and ads, but these are also optimized for a bettermobile experience.Twitter has been a participant in the AMP Project, along with other tech companies includingPinterest, LinkedIn, Nuzzel, WordPress.com, Chartbeat, Parse.ly, and Adobe Analytics, in addition to Google.The company says that, beginning with Moments, it will now direct users to the AMP versions of news articles when theyre available. That doesnt mean it will only include AMP pages in Moments, though  it will simply take the user to the AMP version if its available.A number of major publishers have gotten on board with AMP, including Vox Media, La Stampa, BuzzFeed, The Washington Post, Mashable, BBC, The Economist, The Guardian, Huffington Post, Daily Mail, The Guardian, The New York Times, TIME, The Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, Gannett, Hearst, The Telegraph, and others. (Including TechCrunch.)The updated version of Moments is live now on the Twitter for iOS and Android applications.