Twitter SVP of Engineering Alex Roetter had been relatively silent in the hours and days following Leslie Mileys post about leaving Twitter due to concerns around race, diversity and inclusion. Well, that just changed.In case you havent been following, heres a quick TL;DR about what happened. Miley was the only black engineer in a leadership position at Twitter. A couple of days ago, he wrote aMedium postabout why he ultimately decided to leave Twitter. In it, he described an interactionhe had with Roetter at a leadership meeting, in which Roetter said,diversity is important, but we wont lower the bar. Roetter alsomade a problematic comment about trying to classify ethnicities by name analysis, Miley said, which underscored the unconscious tendency to ignore the complex forces of history, colonization, slavery and identity.Now, Roetter has spoken via Medium:I want Twitter to be a place where all employees feel comfortable raising questions about diversity. That hasnt always been the case, which is unacceptable, Roetter wrote. The comments attributed to me arent an accurate or complete facsimile, but they conveyed a meaning that was very far from what I intended, which means I did a poor job communicating. That resulted in unnecessary pain and confusion, for which I am truly sorry. We all want the same resultsstronger representation of underrepresented minorities at all levels within Twitter.So, there you have it, I guess. Roetter didnt explicitly deny what Miley said and has apologized. Though, its a pretty weak apology.Heres what Miley wrote in response in the comments on Roetters post:Thank you for this well thought out post. I applaud Twitter for always striving to be a better place.But perhaps, more importantly, Twitter is going to start requiring inclusion training for its workforcebeginningin January. Assuming that Roetterhasnt already completed the training, its something I hope will be valuable and useful for him. Ive reached out to Twitter to see if Roetter has previously taken inclusion training  something he said that Twitter has offered to employees in the past.We also want to get and analyze data on how retention varies, Roetter wrote. Above all, we strive for improved transparency and fairness at all stages.Other things Twitter has committed to include developing specific actions related to diversity that Twitter will expect all managers to implement. What those changes actually areis unclear. So, untilTwitter produces some meaningful results, I remain highly skeptical.You can read Roetters full post here.