Tweeted a great joke lately? Was it A) a brilliantly original observation all of your own? Or B) afunnytweet you saw on Twitterandpilfered, sans credit?If the answer is B) your joke theft might result in your tweet being blocked on copyright grounds  if the original composer of the joke reports your theft as copyright infringement to Twitter.The Vergecovereda recent incidence of this happening, after Twitter user @Plagiarismisbad noticed instances of tweet takedownsrelating to a joke originally tweetedby freelance writer Olga Lexell (@runolgarun):BREAKING NEWS: Twitter is hiding tweets reported stolen. And it's referring to the author as a "copyright holder" pic.twitter.com/DkteWMZ7zg Plagiarism Is Bad (@PlagiarismBad) July 25, 2015Although, as other Twitter users have pointed out, tweets being blocked on copyright grounds is not in itself a new thing  e.g. this one from two years ago:This Tweet from @mikko has been withheld in response to a report from the copyright holder. Learn more: https://t.co/LAk1oFhH Mikko Hypponen (@mikko) November 3, 2012So its not clear whether Twitter has recently expanded its copyright policy to specifically cover 140-character jokes, such as the one written by Lexell. Or whether this is more a case of a writer who tweets herjokesthinking to report their plagiarism on Twitter, and the resulting takedowns coming to other users attention.U.S. copyright law does not always cover short phrases (thats more getting intotrademark territory), so 140-characters might be a stretch for traditionalcopyright law purposes. But of course Twitter makes the rules on its platform andgets to apply them how it sees fit.A spokesperson for Twitter declined to comment on the individual tweetin question but pointed us to itsgeneral copyright and DMCA policy. That policy doesnt mention jokes specifically  rather focusing on multimedia content such asphotos, videos or links to copyrighted material  but theres a process for anyone who believes their copyright has been infringed to report the content to Twitter for review.@runolgaruns tweets are now protected but, according to the Verge, she tweeted earlier to confirm she had reported theft of her joke to Twitter, asserting her intellectual copyright of the content in the tweet and saying she makes her living writing jokesand usestweets to test them out. She also told the publication she had filed other takedown requests to Twitter before now, noting that spambots were frequently the culprits for this sort of credit-less reposting.In recent times Twitter has taken greatersteps to control the types of content that can be broadcast on its platform, doing more to counteract the visibility and spreadof abusive sentiments, for example. Whereas, in earlier years and pre-IPO,Twitters Biz Stonepushed a more hardlinepro-free speech stance, arguing the tweets must flow and saying the companywouldstrive not to remove Tweets on the basis of their content.Blockinga tweeton IP grounds may beless controversial than removing someones (hateful) opinion, but both showhow Twitters platform has shifted its stanceon the flow of tweets as it seeks to scale up and attract a more mainstreamuser-base.