Tynker, a startup that creates apps and curricula that teach kids the basics of coding using games and real-world gadgets, is looking to grow  and has raised $7.1 million in a Series A funding round to do so.Not that its having any trouble reaching students: in the three years since it was founded, the company has not only reached millions of them at tens of thousands of schools, but it has expanded from the classroom and found a place on home computers and tablets. And over the last year, the company has benefited from partnerships with Mattel, Parrot, and other makers of toys and devices that can tie directly into the Tynker apps.Coding doesnt mean anything by itself  its just a language. Kids need to see it working with the real world, Tynker founder and CEO Krishna Vedati told TechCrunch. And it means different things to different topics  in astronomy, science, even language arts.Its a basic skill now. No matter which direction you look in education and jobs, computing is going to be a part of that, said Krishna Bharat, the Google researcher who created Google News. Hes a board member and one of the lead investors in the Series A round.Bharat approves highly of the Tynker technique.They have a good instinct for fun, he explained. Theyre trying to make coding a secondary output of things kids already want to do.The breadth of the Tynker approach, which both gamifies the code-learning process and adds physicality, seems to be working. It was one of the most popular options in Code.orgs Hour of Code, and new tools for sharing the games kids build are seeing serious use. Not only that, but the freemium model is paying off as parents and schools convert to subscribers  Vedati noted that the company was cash positive in 2015, though to get to that point it was working with just over $3M in angel funding it collected in 2013.We estimate that all of our tools and 50 percent of our content will need be localized for new markets, wrote Vedati in an email. We may also have to integrate with our respective partners student information systems to make sure the learning/maker experience is seamless.Bharat pointed out that the supplemental education space isnt the place to go for people looking to make a quick million.It exemplifies social entrepreneurship, he said. And not having to think on how to raise money, and just focusing on growth  I think it gives them runway to go be ambitious.That ambition could take any of several forms. Doubling down on existing vectors, Tynker could further take the lead in associating its programs with drones, games, and robots  or maybe sensors and Internet of Things devices will be where its at. Or maybe itll be VR, or in integration with higher education. Imagine if you got graded for your performance in Kerbal Space Program as part of your astrophysics class, for instance.You can use simulations to teach, Bharat said. Instead of learning to program, you program to learn.Whatever the case is, Tynker looks poised to grow, though Vedati declined to indicate where that would happen, exactly. Mexico? China? India? It likely depends as more on finding willing partners and a compatible school system as it does on the companys preference.In addition to Bharat, the round was led by Cervin Ventures, Felicis Ventures, New Ground Ventures, Reach Capital, and Relay Ventures.