Barcelona-based Typeform has landed a $15 million Series A round of financing. The round  a pretty sizable one for a South European startup  was led by Index Ventures, with participation from existing investors Point Nine Capital, Connect Ventures and RTA Ventures, as well as super angels including Anthony Casalena, CEO of Squarespace; Javier Olivan, CEO of King; and Facebooks Jay Parikh.Typeform has been on a mission to overhaul the online form-filling experience with design-centric thinking since mid-2012 (raising previously in fall 2013 and 2014), focusing its efforts on design and cross-platform flexibility, so making forms work better on smartphones  two prioritieswhich have helped it gain tractionin a pretty crowded space.But its aimshave grownfrom the initial inkling ofusing thoughtful designtomakeform-filling less tedious and more engaging (it claims a four-fold improvement in average completion rates vs legacy forms), to rethinking workflows more generally  becoming,as co-founder and co-CEO DavidOkuniev puts it,a defacto tool for people who want to create user interactions.We want people to think of Typeform as more than just a form-builder, he tells TechCrunch. Its a way that you can create any type of interaction, really, around questions  whether youre throwing logic into that or the ability to push it to different services, you kind of become like building blocks for user interaction. So thats where we want to head.We allow people to create a minimum viable product with Typeform.So they build out the workflow around questions, they thread logic into it, they can add a payment component to it, they can collect files through the Typeform. They can even add calculations, he adds. Its kind of like the perfect MVP tool because if you think about it most applications out there are forms with a UI layer on top. And thats what were providing out of the box.Typeformnow has two products:Typeform.com, its originalform-builder product, which has some 500,000 registered users at this stage (and ~80,000 actives); and TypeformI/O,its developer API, which lets third partiesmore easily create bespoke forms with dynamic content, based on individualuser data. The latteris still in beta.With Typeform.com you create one form and you distribute it to loads of people. With Typeform I/Othe premise is that youre creating the Typeform on the fly  the actual Typeform is dynamic, so youre going to create a Typeform for an individual user, based on the data you already have on that user, saysOkuniev. Its about making the conversation much more relevant, and getting much more granular.Typeforms business model for Typeform.com is freemium, with paid tiers for certain features. While TypeformI/Ois not currently being monetized but in the future thebusiness model will be based on usage, saysOkuniev.Stepping up development of TypeformI/Ois one of the main driversfor Typeforms Series A funding raise.Okuniev says it will be opening up an office in San Francisco  hiring there specifically forthe API product.Were hiring product managers, and evangelizers and more developers out in the U.S., he notes.The European startup wont be leaving Barcelona, though, with the team there also set to grow to 100 people. This is a great place to work, a great place to be, we can attract people from all over Europe to this city, says Okuniev. We also want to be in the U.S.  but it doesnt make sense for the core product to be in the U.S.The reason why we want to be in the U.S. with TypeformI/Ois that we want to be much closer to the whole developer ecosystem. You dont need to have that here with Typeform.com  its a more self-service product You dont have to reach out to them to get them on board. Its all automated.