The U.K. government is facing a legal challenge to surveillance legislation that wasrushed through parliament last year. At the time the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Bill (now DRIPA) was criticized for granting the governmentoverly broad and draconian powersto retaindigital comms data  and for the lack of parliamentary time afforded for proper scrutiny. The bill was given cross-party support, becoming law within just three days after minimal public debate.A case is being heardin the U.K. High Court today and tomorrow, brought by civil rights campaign group Liberty and two MPs: the Labour Partys Tom Watson and the Conservatives David Davis. They are challenging DRIPA on Human Rights grounds  referencing the rights to respect for private and family life, and of protection of personal data.It was the European Court of Justice that struck down Europeandata retention powers earlier last year, on the grounds that they were overly broad.The secondary twist here is that the Conservative party manifesto contained a pledge to scrapthe U.K.s Human Rights Act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights, potentiallysevering the formal link with the European Court of Human Rights. So thetype oflegal challenge being brought against dragnet state surveillance powers today may not be possible in future (although the Tories have not yet set out any formal parliamentary plans for implementing aBritish Bill of Rights).Commenting on thelegal challenge in a statement, Labours Watson said:The governments decision to useemergency powers to enable itto spy on citizens showsthe rights of the individual need to be strengthened to ensurethe state cant act with impunity. Even MPs are powerless to prevent such powers being enacted.TheHuman Rights Act allows us to challenge those powers in the courts but the Tory Government is intent on tearing up the Act and doing away with the limited legal protection it affords. It is vital that we fight for it to be retained.Meanwhile, over the pondin the U.S., politicianshave been taking steps to reform bulk data collection powers  whichhave just culminated in the signing of the USA Freedom Act, which puts limits onthe NSAs powers of bulk data collection of Americans telephone records (Europeans and other foreigners comms data remains fair game, however).Despite all the debate about surveillance and privacy in the U.S., the newly elected U.K. Conservative government ispushing in an evenmorehawkish direction on surveillance, with new legislation incoming that looks set togreatly expand data retention powers. And both the Prime Minister and Home Secretary publiclybanging an anti-encryption drumwith talk of a need to plug state surveillance capability gaps.DRIPA has a sunset clause that expires at the end of 2016, but given the governments hawkish rhetoric it seems unlikely that the incoming Investigatory Powers Bill will dilute data retention andsurveillance capabilities. Quite the opposite.On todayslegal challenge to DRIPA, Liberty argues that data retained under the law is subject to an extremely lax access regime which allows it to be acquired by hundreds of public authorities who can then sign off their own access for a broad range of reasons that have nothing to do with the investigation of serious crime. It says around 500,000 requests are granted per year, with no requirement that the requests relate to named individuals or premises  leaving open the possibility of bulk access.Earlier this week civil rights group Big Brother Watch released data it obtained via the Freedom of Information Actwhich revealed thatU.K. police forces made more than 733,000 requests for comms data over a three year period, between 2012 and 2014, with the vast majority of these requests being approved. That rate of requests for comms data equates to police makingoneevery two minutes.