Just before Veterans Day, Uber and Lyft are teaming up with the U.S. government to offer free transportation to former military men and womenwho lack a way to get to jobs and interviews.Lack of adequate transportation is one of themajor problems affecting the veteran population, particularly homeless veterans. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development estimatesthere weremore than 49,000 homeless veterans in America in 2014. Out of that number, approximately68 percent, or more than 33,000,live in areaswhere a lack of reliable transportation makes it difficult to reach services and job opportunities, according to The National Coalition for Homeless Veterans.Uber has pledged to donate 10,000 rides (the equivalent of $125,000 in Uber profits) across five veteran organizations affiliated with the U.S. Department of Labors Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program.The 10,000 rides number doesnt quitecover the tens of thousands of thosein needor the several rides these veterans will presumably take. The donated profit is alsopocket change, compared to the more than $8 billion Uber took in VC dollars invested so far.It was not clear how many rides Lyft is offering or if its portion will cover the rest, but a White House blog mentions both Uber and Lyftare donating tens of thousands of free rides and a Lyft spokesperson mentioned Lyft is donatingthousands of rides, when we reached outfor a more exact number.Uber riders and drivers could also help close that gap. Starting on Veterans Day, November 11, 2015, Uber usersin150 cities across the U.S.can donate $5 towards a ride for a veteran within the app by sliding over to the option marked VETS DAY. Those who choose to donate this way will receive an SMS text message after, but will need to reply Yes to Uber to complete the process.Lyft has no known military program, but this is not the first time Uber has made an effort to help our men and women in military service. Uber launched UberMILITARY a little over a year ago to train veterans to be Uber drivers. More than 40,000 veterans have joined the driver platform since the launch of the initiative, according to Uber.Other companies have joined together with the White House and First Lady Michelle Obama and Vice President Joe Bidens veterans initiativeJoining Forces to help military service men and women this Veterans Day. PenFed Foundation willprovide emergency assistance for veterans experiencing a financial hardship and Walmart is asking customers to change one light bulb in their home to glow green as a symbol of appreciation.