Indias taxi app hailing war is heating up. This morning, details ofOlas latest $310 million funding roundsurfaced, and just hours later, Uber has introduced its first service that allows cash payments in the country.UberAuto is a new category for hailing auto rickshaws that is debuting in New Delhi. Uber said itis a cash-only service for now, with fares calculated using existing transportregulations.The service works just like hailing any other kind of Uber vehicle (its much like the rickshaw service Ola runs too). Users open the app, select UberAuto from the options, and wait for a driver to confirm. Customers can hail autos even when there is no credit in their Paytm wallet  the payments service that Uber integratedin India  since the focus is on cash.When it comes to getting around Delhi, auto-rickshaws are a staple. We recognise the history and value of autos to the transportation landscape. For us, uberAUTO is another way of using technology to offer more choice, making life simpler and keep Delhi moving, Uber said in a blog post.Uber has been running its service in New Delhi under a no profit modelin the aftermath of the alleged rape of a passenger.UberAuto continues that approach, and passengers will not have to pay booking fees or a service charge on top of the fare.This service is an interesting addition for a couple of reasons.Auto rickshaws are, as Uber said above, an important layerof the transportation ecosystem inIndia cities. They are the cheapest and most ubiquitous way to get from A to B so, in that respect they compete with Ubers service for passengers. Getting auto rickshaws on the Uber platform is a big win from that point of view, because it increases the reach and appeal of Ubers service, encouragingmore consumers to download itsapp.Of course, once a new user has the app, theres the possibility that they might, in time, ride with other types of Uber vehicles  which return higher margins for the company than a rickshaw.Cash remains an important payment method across Asia, in spite of the convenience of cashless payments. Thats true for e-commerce, and likewise taxi rides. Cash-only fares will help extend Ubers appeal to new demographics.From there, again, theres the possibility that these new customers will, over time, use Ubers more premium services.Uber serves 11 cities in India, which makes the country its second largest behind the U.S.. As weve said before, the company is making a huge push into India.Ola remains the market leader with its coverage of more than 40 cities and towns nationwide. But Uber is focusedon Indias biggest cities, where it israpidly expanding its breadth of services, which numbersfour different rides in New Delhi: Uber Black, Uber X, Uber Go and (now) Uber Auto.