Uber is testing a new kind ofcarpooling service after it announced UberCommute, a service that will be piloted first in China. The newscomes weeks after UberChina closed a $1.2 billion funding round.The U.S. ride-sharing firm already allows carpooling with its ride on-demand service. Thats Uber Pool (known as Uber+ in China), an offering that allows two or more Uber passengers who are headed to the same destination to share a ride and thus save money on their trip. UberCommute is different, however, as it is designed for carpooling only.Heres how Uber describes its latest offering, which is initially operating in Chinese city Chengdu  aplace Uber said is its number one city in the world:Drivers sign into the app and tell Uber where they are going. We then show them requests from riders who are traveling in the same direction as well as the payment they will receive for the trip. The driver can then decide whether to accept the request or not. For riders, its Uber as usual. They simply select Peoples Uber+ (our Chinese UberPOOL service), input their destination and then our systems match them with a driver going the same way. On the passenger side things are the same as regular Uber, but the service is a subtle way to get more drivers on to Ubersplatform. Rather than signing up to become a regular working driver, UberCommute incentivizes drivers to just save/share the cost of their daily trip to work, or a long drive across state/country  nothing more. That, in turn, increases supply and provides more vehicles to cater to Ubers passenger base.Thats smart because it means people who have no intention of spending their working life as an Uber driver can still make their car, and time, available on the Uber platform.This concept of a purer form of carpooling isnt new. French company BlaBlaCar, a new addition to the billion dollar unicorn club thanks to a recent $160 million funding round, pioneered ride sharing over longer distances/commutes.BlaBlaCar operates in 17 countries, mainly acrossEurope. It isnt present in China right now but it did expand to India earlier thisyear. In the U.S., Zimride  the company that spawned Uber-rival Lyft  closed down its long-distance ride-sharing service in January, although Rocket Internet-backed Tripda, another long distance carpooling specialist from Europe, is available after expanding to the U.S. in late 2014.It isnt clear how these services are performing as standalone businesses, but Ubers carpooling offeringseems better placedsince it ties into its core ride-sharing services. That meanscarpoolers (drivers) have access to a good number of passengers to help share their costs. Services with fewer users would make it more challenging to find passengers going to the same destination.Uber isnt saying too much about its wider plans for UberCommute just yet, although it seems optimisticabout the prospect of global expansions.Over time we hope to adapt UberCommute for other cities around the world so that more people can carpool, helping reduce costs for everyone while also cutting congestion, itsaid in a statement.This isnt the first time that Uber has piloted a new service in Asia first. The company has been testing logistics service Uber Cargo in Hong Kong since January of this year. On a similar note, Uber upped its carpooling game in Asia this weekwhenit launched UberPool in India.