Uber is once again sharpening its focus on India after the U.S. company announced it has landeda strategic investment fromTata Opportunities Fund (TOF), a third-party private equity fund sponsored by Tata Capital, one of Indias largest wealth management organizations.The size of the investment hasnot been disclosed, but it isdescribed as significant. TOF is around $600 million in size, of which $400 million has been committedto date across engineering, hotels, real estate and other verticals. The fund is backed by Tata Capital, and this closer alliance will help Uber expand its services and solutions in India using the fund and Tata Capitals extensive network. The deal is also notably TOFs first investment in a non-Indian company.Ubers technology continues to transform the way millions of peoplecommute while creating economic opportunities for hundreds of thousands of first time entrepreneurs(drivers and owners), who value the flexibility it offers We look forward to working with the teamon innovative new opportunities to help both riders and drivers, TOF Managing PartnerPadmanabh Sinha said in a statement.Uber has taken strategic funding to boost its businesses in Asia before. It landed capital from Chinese search giant Baidu back in December, in a move that gave Uber access to Baidus maps and other services, while in India in March, media firm Times Internet made a strategic investment in Uber.Tata is, for sure, potentially a very influential ally in Ubers battle against Indian rival Ola, which is present in over 100 cities and has the support of SoftBank, Tiger Global and other heavy-hitting investors.Tata Capital is a wholly-owned subsidiary ofTata Sons,a conglomerate with stakesin over 100 Indian businesses, including Tata Motors and Indian Hotels. This new deal raises an interestingsituation sinceRatan Tata, who isone of Indias highest profile businessmen and Chairman Emeritus of Tata Sons, made a personal investment in Ola last month.Todays investment news comes just weeks after Uber pledged to invest $1 billion to develop its business in India. In a recent Q&A with TechCrunch, representatives from Uber revealed that they expectthe companys business in India to surpassthe U.S. over time, while itis committed to growing its service into tier-two, three and four cities in India. Thats important because Ola is closing in on 200 cities served and, while India is Ubers second largest market based on locations served (18 cities in total), it is still well short of covering the country.