A year after it revealedanother attempttomuscleinon the smartphone market, Canonicals first Ubuntu-based smartphone is due to go on sale in Europe in the coming days, it said today. The devicewill be sold for 169.90 (~$190) unlocked to any carrier network, althoughsome regional European carriers will beoffering SIM bundles at the point of purchase. The hardware is an existing mid-tier device, the Aquaris E4.5, madeby Spains BQ with the Ubuntu version of the deviceknown as the Aquaris E4.5 Ubuntu Edition. So theonly difference here isit will be pre-loaded withUbuntus mobile software, rather than Googles Android platform.Canonical has been trying to get into the mobile space for a while now. Back in 2013, the open source software maker failed to crowdfund a high end converged smartphone-cum-desktop-computer, called the Ubuntu Edge a smartphone-sized device thatwouldbeen powerful enough totransform from a pocket computer into a fully fledged desktop when plugged into a keyboard and monitor, running Ubuntus full-fat desktop OS.Canonical had soughtto raise ahefty$32 million in crowdfunds to makethat project fly. Hence its more modest, mid-tier smartphone debut now.On the hardware side,Ubuntus first smartphone offerspretty bog standard mid-range specs, witha 4.5 inch screen, 1GB RAM, a quad-core A7 chip running at up to 1.3Ghz,8GB of on-board storage, 8MP rear camera and 5MP front-facing lens, plus a dual-SIM slot. But its the mobile software thats the novelty here (demoed in action in Canonicalswalkthrough video, embedded below).Canonical has created a gesture-based smartphone interface called Scopes, which putsthe homescreen focus on on a series of themed cards that aggregate content and which the user swipes between to navigate around the functions of the phone, whileapp icons are tucked away to the side of the screen, or gathered together on a single Scope card. Examples include acontextual Today card which contains infolike weather and calendar, or a Nearby card for location-specific local services, or a card for accessing Music content on the device, or News for accessing variousarticles in one place.Its certainly a different approach to the default grid of apps found on iOS and Android but has some overlap with other, alternative platforms such as Palms WebOS, or the rebooted BlackBerry OS, or Jollas Sailfish. The problem is, as withall such smaller OSes, itwill be anuphill battlefor Canonical to attractdevelopers to build content for its platform to make it really live and breathe. (Its got a few third partiesoffering content at launch  including Songkick, The Weather Channel and TimeOut.) And, crucially, a huge challenge to convince consumers to try something different which requires theylearn new mobile tricks. Especially given that people cant try before they buy  as the device will be sold online only.Canonical said theAquaris E4.5 Ubuntu Edition will be made available in a series of flash sales over the coming weeks, via BQ.com. Sales will be announced through Ubuntu and BQssocial media channels  perhaps taking a leaf out of the retail strategy of Android smartphone maker Xiaomi, which uses online flash sales to hype device launches and shift inventoryquickly. Building similar hypein a mature smartphone market like Europe  for mid-tier hardware is going to a Sisyphean task. But Canonical claims to be in it for the long, uphill haul.We are going for the mass market, Cristian Parrino, its VP of Mobile, told Engadget. But thats a gradual process and a thoughtful process. Thats something were going to be doing intelligently over time  but well get there.