Earlier this month,Rocket Internet announced that it would be stepping up aggressivegrowth in Asia once more, with one new launch per quarterto expand inemerging markets. Today, the e-commerce giantis following through on that strategy: Daraz  an e-commerce portal modelled on Amazon and serving Bangladesh, Pakistanand Myanmaris today announcing a $56 million (50 million) round of financing.This is the first major funding for Daraz, which started in 2012 as a fashion portal before expanding to home and other categories. The funding is also notable becauseits not coming from a local organization or one of Rockets regular investing partners like Kinnevik, but from the United Kingdom.The lead in this round is the CDC Group, a development finance institution wholly owned by the UK governmentwith some 3.4 billion under management. Rocket Internets regionalinvestment group, the Asia Pacific Internet Group (APACIG), also participated.Part of the mandate of the CDC is to use UK money for international development as a humanitarian and diplomatic lever. Daraz is rapidly building an online trading infrastructure across a number of South Asias most challenging frontier markets, David Osborne, CDCs Investment Director. CDCs investment will enable the company to continue its impressive growth. We expect our investment to help Daraz create several thousand direct and indirect jobs over the next 5 years, and play an important role in the professionalization and development of local retail sectors, logistics networks and technology industries.The valuation is not being disclosed, and Rocket / Daraz are not releasing any figures on the size of the companys existing business.Rocket Internet, the e-commerce incubatorthatstarted in Berlin and is now publicly traded, continues to invest in European ventures. Indeed, HelloFresh announced an $85 million round just last week, and Rocket today is announcing a seven-figure investment in German online moving portal Movinga.But in the last several years Rocket Internethas also been making a big effort to capitalize on developingeconomies in Asia, Africa and South America where it faces less competition from incumbents (and Amazon itself), and there are growing pools of newly moneyed consumerscoming online for the first time.Daraz, in fact, claims to be the biggeste-commerce platform in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar  some of the most underdeveloped regions in the world, where its hard for foreign companies to invest partly because of government restrictions, and partly because of simple cases of infrastructure. (Myanmar, for example, is still working out mobile roaming for foreign visitors, and in moreplaces than not, there is no Internet at all.)Taking the e-commerce business model into these exciting markets is a fascinating journey. Although internet penetration is still relatively low, the market is developing fast and its potential is immense, saidBjarke Mikkelsen, CEO of Daraz, in a statement. By making Daraz a success, we are not only building a great business, but also creating jobs and infrastructure in the countries we operate in  thats what makes it so exciting.Rocket says the funding will be used to continue to grow the business in existing markets and for expansion into other frontier markets in Asia.TheAsia Pacific Internet Group (APACIG)  first established in 2014as part of the bigger groups reorganization process is Rockets regional operation covering14 e-commerce companies in 15 countries. And while some of the immediate business may not be anything like the size of operations in more mature markets, there is a lot of promise, the company believes. The markets where Daraz is active are inspiring for entrepreneurs; though internet penetration is extremely low and online shopping is still a new trend, the growth and potential are unique, said Hanno Stegmann, CEO of APACIG, in a statement.