UpLabs is a community-powered marketplacethat letsdesigners and developers share ready-to-ship UI resources  like login boxes and payment forms to build apps and sites.Originally from France, founders Matt Aussaguel and Guillemette Dejean moved to the U.S. after finding their way into Y Combinators Winter 2016 class.They hadlong felt that existing communitiessegregate designers and developersin a way that keeps either from working efficiently, and that when theycollaborate and understand each others constraints,beautiful products are made.Aussaguel points outthat if you stay within a community of designers like Dribbble, youll see a lot of mock ups that areimpossible  or at least incredibly difficult to bring to fruition from the developers side. On the other hand, developers can be more focused on what theyre building and not as much on the visual appeal of an app or site.UpLabs wants to be a resource for developers to learn more about design and to purchase interactive prototypes. Within the UpLabs community, designers and developers canget feedback from each other on live concepts, as well as buy and sell their prototypes.So, how does it work?UpLabs curates resources for the web, iOS and OS X and Material Design, offeringuser interfaces, experiments, open-source apps, libraries and ready-to-use products.So its kind of like Product Hunt for developers  except instead of showcasing startups, UpLabs shines the spotlight on the best Material Design examples, and putsthem up forsale on the site.Here are a couple ofexamplesfor a login box design.Example #1 in coded prototype.Example #2 coded prototype.UpLabs didnt start out as a marketplace. The ideawas born in December 2014 when Aussaguel created a site that listed one exceptionalMaterial Design example a day. After enthusiastic feedback from the designcommunity and support from Google, UpLabs launched to help designers and developers debut their work.Turning the product into a marketplace was a logical next step. Now, the site showcases 20-25 designs a day and seesmore than a million search requests per month, mainly to solve specific UI challenges like login boxes, payment forms or navigation tabs. UpLabs has around60,000 users.Aussaguel estimates that UpLabs is split between 60 percent designers and 40 percent developers.One of the main challenges they havefaced is keeping the quality high.Due to the seamless submission process and publicity from Google, the site wasgetting a high volume of submissions. A verified user submission system has made curation a bit easier forthe duo. When posts get enough upvotesfrom the community, the userwill be granted averified profile  allowing them toupload directly to the showcase without having to go through a review.The UpLabs teamwants to connect designers and developers offline too, and has organized a series of meetupsin Europe. The meetups host prominent figures in the Google Design community and featurespeakers likeGoogle evangelistNick Butcher.If you want to be a good designer you should hang out with more developers, and vice versa, Aussaguel tells me. If you can remember this, youll be in a good spot.