If youve spent much time in San Francisco over the past few years, youve seen the city slowly congest itself into something Gordian. Getting around has become increasingly difficult as construction cuts into lanes, roads cant handle the traffic load, and the public transit system strains to operate in an increasingly chaotic environment.The issue is bad enough that Ive started to patch together various forms of transportation to do my job. Oftentimes, getting to a meeting is a faster proposition on foot than in a car. The issue is when you arent sure what method of transit is fastestright now.Enter Urban Engines work to bring what it calls mixed-mode routing to the public. Out this week on both iOS and Android, Urban Engines updated app is a tool to help you figure out the fastest way to get to your destination. The app can handle walking, driving, public transit, and Uber. With Uber, Urban Engines will show you the expected cost of a car from the ridesharing service, alongside other options.The mixed-mode transit tool works in around 50 North American cities. Presumably that figure will grow throughout the year. Still, for a first launch, the geographical reach of the firm feels sufficient.The applooks like this in practice:Why in the flying fuck do we need another mapping tool? Because as it turns out there is ample space in the market category to try new things.Urban Engines includes the ability to download full cities, so that you dont have to depend on cell coverage when traveling to get around, for example. That feature will matter more as the company expands its coverage of international locales.But most importantly, the app contains an x-ray like feature that maps the worlds roads and so forthdirectly onto your phone viewso that you can see where to go from where you stand. Heres what it looks like in practice:This helps as, if you are like me, you never know which way to turn to start your transit. With the above feature, you can quite literally map the app onto your world and thus be given directions that change based on where you are standing. Its quick, and surprisingly compelling.Its interesting to see how transit directions remain a place where even the large players are catching up. Apple, yesterday, announced that transit directions are coming to its Maps apps in iOS. Given that Apples news dropped in near conjunction with Urban Engines release, I asked the firm about the other companys release. Heres what the startuptold me:While Apple has long led the market when it comes to mobile design and user experience, maps has been something of a chink in its armor. Its hard enough to build mapping systems from the ground up, but for Apple, the burden is even higher having to integrate disparate data and legacy systems. The promised mapping updates weve seen from both Google and Apple in the last two weeks are a clear recognition that the needs of the modern urban commuter have changed, and now they are playing catch up. At Urban Engines we identified these needs early on and have been laser-focused on reimagining the mobile map experience for todays urban commuter.