Hard to believe that Disrupt SF is just around the corner! TechCrunch has partnered with an amazing array of sponsorswho promise to make your experience at the conference better and better.Party with TechCrunch and Cheetah Mobile: Join us on Monday for the Official After Party atMighty, sponsored by our friends at Cheetah Mobile.Party with TechCrunch and Intuit: Join us on Tuesdayfor the Official After Party at Public Works, sponsored by our friends at Intuit.Custom Disruptor Awards(yes many): This year, sevensponsors are awarding prizes to startups of their choosing from the Battlefield and Startup Alley.American Public Media Group will present the APMG Audience Choice Award to the startup whose product, mission, vision and values best align with the values of our audience.BAIRD is offering the Baird Biggest Social Impact Award.Bairds Biggest Social Impact Award is given to a company that makes positive contributions to society with a product or service in health and human services, education, diversity or the arts.Eventbrite will present the Eventbrite In Real Life Awardto the startup whose technology shows the most promise for enhancing real-life interactions.Ford is presenting the Innovation in Mobility Award.The Ford Innovate Mobility Award will go to the start-up that is looking at mobility in an all-new way, supporting our vision to change the way the world moves.Nielsen: As a leader in digital measurement, Nielsen is committed to turning Big Data into Smart Data, improving business performance and fulfilling unmet consumer needs. In honor of this mission, were awarding a prize to one lucky startup of our choosing at TechCrunch Disrupt SF. The Nielsen Data Visionary Award will go to the startup that harnesses data in the most seamless and creative way to deliver a unique user experience or insight. See more about the award here.Taiwan Startup Stadiumis offering the Rock the World Award.In the spirit of Taiwans efforts to rock the world, this award celebrates internationally minded teams with brilliantly executed startup ideas from anywhere across the globe.UPS will present the UPS Innovation Award.Innovation drives the world forward. And so do startups. The UPS Innovation Award and $15,000 in UPS services will recognize the best of both in one hardware startup. Sign up for Office Hours during Disrupt to qualify to win!Startup Alley Perks: TechCrunch wants Startup Alley to get the best support possible while at Disrupt, so were continuing to offer free office hours, this year from Perkins Coie andUPS. What does that mean? It means that Startup Alley, Hardware Alley, and Battlefield companies at Disrupt are entitled to schedule 1:1 meetings with attorneys from Perkins Coie to get courtesy legal advice and shipping andlogistics consulting for hardware companies.Official Networking Sponsor:Moo.com offered a discount on printed products to our Startup Alley companies. Thank you!Official Hardware Alley Sponsor: UPSis pleased to sponsor our fun-filled Hardware Alley day again on Wednesday, September 23.Official Hackathon Platform:DevPost is reprising its role at the Hackathon, providing the platform for our wiki. Thanks, yall!Official Wifi Sponsor: CleverTap is the proud sponsor of Hackathon and Conference wifi.Official Valet Partner: To make your life easier, Luxe is providing its valet parking services at Pier 70 for a limited number of guests. Register here.IBM returns to sponsor the Startup 411 section, where our Startup Alley companies can find products and services suited to their unique needs.Our VR Pavilion is brought to us by Rothenberg Ventures.Watch us on the web: If youre an arm-chair Disruptor, you can watch the conference action from the TechCrunch homepage.Registration: Eventbrite has long been a TechCrunch partner. If you purchased a ticket, you used Eventbrite. We love them and we think you will, too. If you havent purchased a ticket, please go do that now!