Editors Note:Sam Blanco is an applied behavior analyst, working with students ages 3-14 in NYC. For the past ten years she has worked with students with Autism Spectrum Disorders and other developmental delays.Last year, the two big stories in the news related to autismwereabout how children with autism are more likely to be addicted to video gamesand thedismal employment rates of adults with autism.These two, seemingly unrelated, stories should be viewed in a sharedcontext.Becausewhat happens if we flip theconversation and say that kids with autism are more likely to be motivated by orproficient with video games and technology?We need to reframe the conversation and consider how to use an interest in technology as a springboard toskill development and, for some, employment.Gaming can train individuals ina wide range of skills necessaryfor any vocation;from improving communication,to following directions, and learning new, technical, skills.Furthermorethere are many children with autism whoare motivated by technology, and others whodo not yet use it meaningfully.Tiggly Counts, developed by Kidtellect,offersan entry point for these kids to play with purpose. It includes counting toys thatcorrespond with three different apps and help build early math skills.The 3Dcounting toys totally change the way the child interacts with the tablet.For example,one of my students always wanted to play with the iPad, but when given access hejust tapped on the screen without purpose. I taught him how to play with Tigglywith his mom by simply dividing the pieces between the two of them. This easymodification of an activity he loved got him interacting with his mom in new waysand participating in an appropriate math game for his level.I introduce many of my students with autism to Toontastic, an app from Launchpad Toys, thatallows them to create their own cartoons.They learn how to structure a story, speakclearly, take turns in speaking, and practice conversation skills. One of my studentshappens to hate writing, but loves to write stories then animate them with his sisteron the app. Not only is he practicing written language skills, but he and his sisterhave positive interactions every time they use the app.The company also shareslesson plans from teachers of all age groups and ability levels for how to best useToontastic. Lessons plans are important because while children with autism may beproficient with technology, their teachers and parents often are not. Giving thisguidance can help them better teach their students how to use technology inmeaningful ways.Motion Maths Pizza practices an entirely different skill set for my studentsallowing them to open a pizza parlor, make business decisions, and manageresources. There are also excellent rewards built into the program.One of mystudents loves looking at the graphs to see how much money hes made, then setgoals so he can purchase more items for his restaurant. And all of this skill-buildingoccurs within the context of a fun game.But perhaps most importantly, the app requires the child to recognizenonverbal social cues. Recognizing emotional states of others can be challenging forpeople with autism. If you dont get a pizza to the customer quickly they will showimpatience, then anger, and then theyll leave causing you to lose a sale.Incorporating real-life social cues and experiences is one of the most beneficialaspects of this app.Many of the apps that I use are not explicitly made for children with autismor for job skill development, but they do foster important vocational skills. Itsimportant to take a look at the constant conversation around STEM, and morespecifically the idea that all children should be taught how to code.Children withautism are often, unintentionally, left out of these conversations. Weve identifiedthat children with autism are often highly motivated by and proficient withtechnology. The next step should be including them in the focus on educatingchildren in tech with the long-term goal of preparing them for the workforce.There are some apps that do this well. Hopscotch Technologies has two appsthat I have used with children with autism. Daisy the Dinosaur teaches coding at avery basic level and Hopscotch is slightly more complex. I love introducing one ofthese apps to a student and watching their face as they make the connectionbetween adding a step to the code and the movement of Daisy the Dinosaur. Thatsimple connection increases their motivation to explore the app and try to makeDaisy do different things.It introduces coding, but also problem solving, math, andsequencing in a way that many children with autism dont typically get toexperience.Beyond these apps, I think theres still plenty of room for innovation in thisarea. Id love to see the scope of tablet and smartphone apps increased. I see one great possibility inSpaceteam, an app Ive played with family and friends.In thiscooperative game, players each play on their own device and work as a team to keeptheir spaceship in flight by sharing instructions, following directions other peopleprovide, and maintaining a quick response rate. I would love to see educationalgames utilize this format, and I think such a format could be especially beneficial forpracticing communication skills with children with autism.There are so many great things happening in the tech industry, and its timeto bring people with autism into the fold. Providing lesson plans, play-testing appswith children with autism, and incorporating accessibility and modification featurescreates opportunities for an entire segment of the population that is frequentlyoverlooked. Reframing the conversation doesnt just open doors for children withautism in terms of social skills and future employment. It offers the potential for anew level of independence that has a ripple effect across that persons family,community, and society at large.