A startup called VaporChat has raised $1.5 million for its newly launched mobile application which pushesthe concept of ephemeral messaging further by not only allowing users to un-send text and photos, but also control whether or not message recipients can copy or save the content being shared over its service, and much more.Today, there are a number of disappearing messaging apps on the market, includingof course Snapchat, as well as thosemore specifically focused on privacy and security, like Wickr, Frankly, Confide, Telegram, Leo, Glimpse and others. But VaporChats differentiator is that it offers users more granular controls over their messages content by enabling them to configure various global settings for how they want that content protected within its app.Like many apps, VaporChat lets you un-send messages at any time, which means youre wiping them off of the recipients device. But thats only one of many privacy settings the app includes.In VaporChat, there are two main modes for texting: a regular mode and a vapor mode, where content will disappear automatically after a time frame you specify. In each mode, users can configure whether or not a recipient is allowed to copy and paste from the messages they get via VaporChat. If you disable this, the copy option wont appear for text-based content, and the sharing feature associated with photos, where you could save typically save a phototo your Camera Roll or post it to social media, for example  is grayed out.Explains founder Ken Fried, the idea with VaporChat is to offer a solution for users most common pain points when it comes to the privacy of their messages. In addition, he notes, you can have the app alert you when a recipient takes a screenshot, too, and you can have VaporChat configured to automatically vapor (delete) the entire conversation when that event occurs.Another protection lets you configure the app so your name doesnt appear in the chat message itself. That way, if someone does take a screenshot  or if they use a second camera to snap a picture of the screen without your knowing  your name wont appear in the photo.Plus, you can turn on or off the copy/paste protection on a case-by-casebasis. For example, if you normally dont permitthis action but end up texting something you want to allow a friend to copy  like the address to the party  you can click a button to quickly disable the setting on a per-text basis.Fried, who founded VaporChat in late 2013, previously spent two decadeson Wall St., including 12 years at Goldman Sachs, before getting into angel investing in 2000 where he backed companies like the now publicly traded Cornerstone OnDemand and contextual ad network Quigo, which was acquired byTechCrunch parent company AOL back in 2007. He actually took the reins of one early-stage investment of his which was beginning to build a business-focused app to create VaporChat instead.The motivation, Fried explains, came from seeing then what he believed was a massive void in the market. On the one side, there were a lot of regular chatting apps, and on the other, were a handful of ephemeral apps. But no one really successfully bridged the two, he says. Its my view that most people just want to text like they regularly doI said I dont want to just build an ephemeral app, I want to build a robust, scalable, globally accessible appBut I want to give users the option to be in total control over every single aspect of their chatting experience.In future builds, Fried says the app will introduce more features designed to make chatting fun, including some proprietary features he declined to detail.Its worth also noting that VaporChat isnt promising the military-grade encryption of something like Wickr. Its messages arent stored on the server, though, so it forgoes end-to-end encryption. It does use256-bit SSL encryption, however. And for added security,users sign up with a phone number, not a username and password combo.The company is a team of nine in New York, and is backed by Social Starts, as well asa number of angels includingEd Wise, SVP, Managing Director of Branded Content at Turner Broadcasting.VaporChat is currently iOS-only.