Last week, tens of thousands of people came toLas Vegas for CES, where they spent their timemilling around the Convention Center and comparing selfie sticks,fancy TVs and robots, trudging to thedozen or so otherdistantly-placed hotels whererelatedeventstook place, and apparently drinking a lot.We went off the beaten track to take a gander at another aspect of tech life in Las Vegas.A group of entrepreneurs  tapping some $350 millionfunding from investors likeZappos founder Tony Hsieh  have been building a neweconomyin DowntownVegas, with tech a very consistenttheme courtesy of the Vegas Tech Fund, which backsstartups that set up shop in the city. Its an effort that you can read in a number of ways.First and maybe foremost, its smart and practical: the shabby, much-neglected Downtown area is crying out for regeneration, and there area lot of pre-existing buildings and other infrastructure already there.Plus it taps into a bigger trend of decentralization in tech beyond Silicon Valley. Its no surprise that one of the businesses we looked at, an early-stage incubatorcalled The Mill, was inspired by a similar program in Grand Rapids, Michigan.But on the other hand, theVegas project isambitious and not always perfect in its execution. Part of the reason that Downtown had previously developed into such an economic ghost town is because of Vegas relentlessculture of growth: the desert, the thinking goes, is limitless (its not, but thats another story). And so when one thing appears old or worn out, just build something new somewhere else.Can that ingrained tide  which is still very much in force in Vegas and only subsided a littleeven during the worst parts of the sub-prime housing crisis  be reversed?As you see in the video, residents answer with a pretty confidentyes.While Vegas is known for artifice to the extreme (look! Venice! New York! Paris! Arthurian castles! Beautiful Water Wonderlands!), the people who are trying to make a go of creating a sustainabletech economyin in the cityare a little more sober.They knowDowntown has certainly had its ups and downs. The positives have includedthe sheer number of businesses thathave been funded by Hsieh and others, andalso the significant move of Zappos from is office-park former home in suburban Henderson into the old City Hall buildings, smack in the center of Downtown.Butnegatives have not been absent: just months ago, Hsieh stepped down from a leadership role amidsta lot of negative accusations arose around the project bleeding money on going-nowhere investments and follies. And there have beenother sad stories, too.But Id argue that the bigger picture is that the cityto hold a lot of possibilities. Neither Rome nor Vegas approximation of it,Caesars Palacewere built in a day, and sans continuous jackpots, there is yetmuch more good to come.Correction: Hsieh was never in fact the CEO or in a leadership position at the Downtown Project. A statement via a spokesperson: :I am the CEO of Zappos.com but Ive never referred to myself as the CEO of Downtown Project, and Ive never considered myself as being in day-to-day management of Downtown Project. My role continues to be as an investor, advisor, and equivalent of a board member that sets high-level general direction and strategy but is not involved in day-to-day management of people or projects. We regret the error.