Bryan Roberts has seen plenty of market swings in his 18 years as a venture capitalist with Venrock, the venture firm that started as the venture arm of the Rockefeller family and has historically invested in early-stage technology and  Robertss specialty  health care start-ups.Roberts also has a thorough understanding of whats happening on the U.S. public markets as the chairman of three Venrock portfolio companies that now trade on Nasdaq: Castlight Health, Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, and Achaogen.Given his background, we asked him recently what hes expecting to see happen in the health care market next year. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: Several months ago, the IPO market for health care companies suddenly tightened after a long run. Whats happening? BR: Health care has tightened, but we could probably talk broadly about the financing market tightening. With the later-stage stuff getting dicier, Ive been hearing about more IPOs getting pulled. People are either risk on or risk off, and were beginning to back off from full-throttle risk-on environment. I guess I feel like the last four or five months in both biotech and tech more broadly have been akin to what you might have considered last licks in a stickball game as the sun was going down, and that shiftpredates the mutual fund valuation stuff that came out.I dont know that I have a good reason as to why biotech pulled back specifically other than pricing concerns mentioned by presidential candidates, some high-profile price gouging, and some clinical trials that read out negatively, though that always happens.TC: What are you expecting in 2016 and how might it impact your approach? BR: Well, for one thing, the changing environment may make me feel less out of step with everyone else. We dont tend to focus on sectors or stages. I invest really broadly across health care, from genomics to diagnostics to therapeutics, so from a fundamental perspective, we dont tend to follow the herd. In this bullish market environment, we havent been doing growth equity investing. We tend to avoid the party seed rounds done by 15 different people.[All that said,] in health care IT, weve moved to earlier stage. Weve started a couple of companies. Weve moved to pre-product market fit, which is different than how wed invested in the space 10 years ago. When we invested in Athenahealth [the now publicly traded company that offers a suite of administrative services for medical practices], they had product market fit, but no one wanted to invest in that space. Now, once something has traction, its priced very fully. So earlier this year we started a business with [former Facebook CFO] David Ebersman called Lyra Health. We did the same with [former U.S. CTO], Todd Park at Castlight. Well continue doing that for some time.TC: What does someone need to get a meeting with you? BR: I dont focus on stage. I start stuff when I find smart, passionate people who are trying to solve a problem or a market need that most people dont think can be solved, and whohave to have an orthogonal hook regarding how they go about it. If they have those things, Ill meet with people all day long.Whats one of the newest, biggest problems that your entrepreneurs are tackling? Grand Rounds in the health care software services space is tackling the problem of getting the right care to a patient [by giving them access to a second opinion from a medical expert for the condition in question, regardless of geographic location]. They have an expert network of doctors who they can call on to review cases and opine onstuff like that. We gave the service to all our CEOs and entrepreneurs, not just for themselves but their parents. And Ive never before had a product where weve gotten emails like, You saved my moms life.TC: How many boards do you sit on? BR: Twelve companies boards.TC: Including several public companies. Does Venrockhave a philosophy about how long it makes sense to remain with a company after its IPO?BR: We dont have any hard and fast rules around board seats. We dont even tie it to how long we keep our stock. Sometimes, well sit on a board for three to five years after a company goes public. Theres usually some point in a newly public companys life where its hated at some point, and theres no point in getting out at that point. We want to help them build value, so westay as long as were being helpful to the CEO.TC: Do you expect to see more M&A and IPOs next year? BR: There seems to be a lot of pressure built into the private market right now. I think that drum beat [to exit] will increase for management and boards. My bet is there will be both more IPOs and more M&A in the near term. Well probably see more price sensitivity than in the last 18 to 24 months, but there are still few places to get interesting returns.TC: More VCs are jumping into data-driven health care. Are they showing up in the deals that interest you? BR: Weve seen a lot more interest in health care broadly over last three of four years for different reasons. In biotech space, some huge drugs have attracted a lot of capitalprimarily public and hedge fund capital, but theres been a lot of it. In health care IT, youve had a huge influx of startups and therefore VCs owing to changes around payments and regulations. Were also seeing a bunch of new interest in genomics and DNA thats driven by IT and big data and the learnings from DNA sequencing, and here, too, were seeing a bunch of tech investors coming in.TC: Think theyll stay? It depends on how they do.