In a further sign of the increasing maturity of Southeast Asias startup ecosystem, a new fund has arrivedto offer yet more financing options for emerging tech companies. Venturra Capital is a big-hitting $150 million fund announced this week thatis focused onthe region, where mobile internet adoption is rising rapidly across a cumulative population ofover 600 million.Venturra Capital, which is based out of Jakarta, Indonesia, sure has notablecredentials. Its three founding partners have impressive track records: Stefan Jung was founder and MD of Rocket Internet Southeast Asia and formerly of VC firm Monks Hill Ventures;Rudy Ramawy was Googles first country manager inIndonesia and is an active angel investor; whileJohn Riady is director of the Lippo Group, an Indonesian super-conglomerate with more than $15 billion in business assets. The group is increasingly moving into digital, and, under Riadys tutelage, it hasspent a reported $500 milliondeveloping its own e-commerce business in Indonesia.The Lippo connection is strong with Venturra Capital. The group is the funds largest LP. Indeed, Venturra Capital is taking on the portfolio companies from Lippo Digital Ventures, the conglomerates investment arm, but the founding partners stressed to TechCrunch that the fundwill operate autonomously.Werevery much an independent fund, and we look at investments independently, Ramawy said in an interview. Some [of our portfolio companies may] compete with Lippo businesses or have no connection, others are synergistic. which can be an extra advantage for us to help scale and help entrepreneurs.(Left to right) Venturra Capitals founding partners John Riady, RudyRamawy and Stefan JungVenturra Capital, which follows new Southeast Asia-focused funds from Golden Gate Ventures ($50 million) and Jungle Ventures ($100 million), has raised its $150 million float in full already, Jung confirmed.The fund is pretty flexible in its focus. The team is anchored in Jakarta but it will invest in startups across a range of verticals, in various markets in Southeast Asia and at Series A/B and early/seed stage, too. Furthermore, it will assess opportunities with companies from further afield that havebusiness potential in Southeast Asia.Our themes are broad, and include e-commerce to fin-tech, healthcare, and education. Wereprimarily looking at consumer businesses, but there are bigger opportunities in the B2B space, too, Jung told us.We are stage agnostic, German Jung, who is also a co-founder of Instacart-like HappyFresh, added.If we believe in the founder and business idea, we want to be working with them as soon as possiblewe are willing to write the first check.Were alsoin a position where we can lead Series A/B deals. Wecan write $2/3 million checks, but can also follow on and participate in later rounds.That focus on Series A and Series B deals is important. It wasnt so long ago that gathering investors and financing to cover such deals in Southeast Asia was difficult  to the point that corporates hadstepped in to bridge the gap  but Golden Gate Ventures, Jungle Ventures, Monks Hill Ventures and now Venturra Capital are among the newly emerged firms capable of writing larger checks, and providing therequisite mentoringand business networks for startups.The Venturra Capital fund is expected to run for four years. Half of the money isdevoted to follow-on deals with portfolio companies, the founding partners added.Unsurprisingly, the founding partners of Venturra Capital are hugely optimistic about the direction that the startup ecosystem is headed in Southeast Asia, and how things have developed over the past few years.Im super duper excited,Ramawy said. The growth and penetration of Internet and mobile has skyrocketed[while there are]lots of inefficiencies and infrastructure issues. In countries where things are not as efficient, technology really fundamentally changes the way people dothings, thats where value is being created.Thepuzzle pieces have come together in terms of investors, quality of entrepreneurs, andco-working spaces, accelerators and mentorship, Jung added. Those didnt exist three years ago, and its quite impressive how it has grown.Venturra Capital has quietly completed 10 deals across Southeast Asia, details of which the partners said will be revealed soon. The team has already hired two fund managers, and Jung said it is closing to adding a third as it bids to fill out its team. Theres likely to be a lot more to come from his new addition to Southeast Asias VC set.