
Another day, another series of Silicon Valley e-commerce explosions: Gilt Groupe just sold for a fraction of its valuation (and itscapitalraised) and One Kings Lane is reportedly the next to die. Previously it wasFab.combeing sold for nothing after severely underperforming  ah, Fab, the first billion-dollar retail unicorn born with crossed eyes and a trick knee.Marc Andreessen, Silicon Valleys Brobdingnagian Sloth Fratelli overlord, called Fab an e-commerce category killer just 24months before Fab itself was killed. Prior to Fab, Groupon had its hyper-embarrassing tango with the stock exchange, losing 90 percent of its worth.Then theres Living Social, whichI believe is in the middle of some super sad business pivot where itnow sells maps to celebrities homes or something like that.Onlineshoppingfailure abounds.So how could so many retail startups with so muchimportantVC money be so ill-fated? Lets peruse the offerings in these digital junkyards and find out for ourselves.Behold this Dont Fret Coffee Table from the wizards at One Kings Lane. Because clearly someone withthousands of dollarsto spend on an ottoman would say to themselves, Why go to areputable store and get great customer service when I could blow my wad here, in the unproven land of One Kings Lane, and save 11 percent!?! After all, like most people in the $3,400.00+ faux-Victorian ottoman price range, Im a discount shopper. Nailed that customer mindset, 1KL. Nailed it.Silicon Valley Assessment:Whats for sale on Gilt in 2016? Why these fugly, shiny shoe-boots that look like they got trapped in a factory conveyor belt. Ugg boots  much like Gilts flash sales themselves  were popular exactly nine years ago.Silicon Valley Assessment:Come to Groupon for your discount bikini waxes! Because if a strangers going to pour hot lava on your bikini area, nothing assuages your fears like knowing you paid them less than his or her worth. Up to 66 percent less, in fact.Silicon Valley Assessment:Stock Exchange Assessment:Now we meet the junkyard e-commerce categorys supreme leader  Wish.com. Wish is doing the previously impossible: raising a shit-ton of money without even pretendingto be fancy or good.Forget the legends of a rebellious young Mark Zuckerberg showing up to meet with venture capitalists sporting ahoodieinstead of a suit. Wish didnt even shower or wear clothes. There is no Dont Fret Coffee Table for sale onWish.com  oh, hell no!!Wish.comis a multibillion-dollar-valued company. Heres itshomepage, which I consider to be the Andreas Gursky of giving up:Is that dog dying? Can somebody call a vet? And what the hell kind of watch is a, I cant even see the logo, wait let me zoom in, aFashion Geneva Roman Numerals Faux Leather Analog Crystals Wrist Watch?Is this a place to shop for your worst enemy?Silicon Valley Assessment:Want to know how much of that $578 million theyre going to lose? My guess is, all of it. I cant imagine a world that needs Wish, not even during the first intergalactic war.Why do I blameventurecapitalfor most of these failures and not the founders themselves? Because most of these sites (stupid tech-bubble-byproduct bullshitWish.com not included) were once interesting offerings. There was a time when Gilt absolutely ruled NYC. There was a time when Fab was the greatest, prettiest thing wed discovered on a screen. And there was an interesting and viable idea behind One Kings Lane  at oneearly juncture.The trouble for all of these businesses came in the steroidal scaling process,notthe business inception process. Sometimes a great idea for a small-to-midsize retailer is aterribleand impossible idea for a huge one.Another reason for this loud series of abysmal failures may have something to do with gender. One commonality through all of these e-commerce sites is that they sold to women:What does Silicon Valleys vaingloriousventurecapitalsystem lack? Women!Women make up as little as 4 percent of deal-makingventurecapitalists in the Valley. Perhaps in the hubris of backing but not comprehending a category in which women play a very significant role, Silicon Valley is now getting its just desserts.All Silicon Valley VCs with egos great and greater: Shoppingis trickier than you thought. Admit defeat and quit while youre behind.