This much-talked about Instagram photo wasnt the only product ofPresident Obamas recent visit to Vietnam. The Southeast Asian country also cut access to Facebook while the U.S. Commander-in-Chiefwas on its soil.Thats according to free speech advocates at Access Now, who pulled together evidence that the social network was shuttered in its entirety over the weekend. Thats opposed to a partial block, which authorities have favored lately. Vietnam, you may recall, blocked Facebook earlier this month on account of coverage of citizen protests which spread acrossthe social network, which counts more than 30 million members in Vietnam.Facebook did not immediately respond to our request for comment.Why did you block Facebook in Vietnam???? pic.twitter.com/mnqlosw4ne Nguyen Le Chau Tue (@TriTue_NT) May 22, 2016The reason for the shutoff appears to be national elections, with activists telling Reutersthat the social network was muted to preventpro-democracy activists calling for a boycott.Internet shutdowns must never be allowed to become the new normal, Access Now wrote on its website. Often justified in the name of public safety, shutdowns instead cut off access to vital information, e-financing, and emergency services, plunging whole societies into fear and destabilizing the internets power to support small business livelihoods and drive economic development.The group also argued that censorship impacts trade and business, which was one of the mission statements behind Obamas trip.Facebook was initially blocked in Vietnam when the social network became popular in Southeast Asia five or so years ago. That initially led to a glut of localized services rising to take its place, however Facebook has become a mainstream service among Vietnams 90 million population in recent years.Vietnam is far from the only country to flex its muscles to suppress social network, there are plenty of examples aside from the obvious regimeof China. Vietnams neighbor Thailand briefly blocked Facebook less than a week after a military coup in May 2014, while Turkeys government has restricted access to Twitter and Facebook multiple times, and Pakistan only lifted a three-year ban on YouTube this year. Elsewhere, Malaysia continues to block Medium following investigativereporting oncorruptionclaims relatedto its Prime Minister.