Canthe problemoftech gobbling up too much of your attentionbe fixed by buying more technology? Vinaya, a U.K. startup whichstarted out back in mid2013  and is now announcing its first full product launch, fleshing out its businessphilosophyand detailing $3 million in seed funding  reckons so.Investors in the startup include some familiar names, with Passion Capitals Eileen Burbidge leading the round. Others putting in funding include former Index partner Robin Klein, Carmen Busquets, Playfair Capital, Michael Birch and several others.Vinayas mission: to applypsychology research tothe tech product creation process to try to buildproducts that are more sensitive to human habits  and help promote emotional wellbeing by, for instance, enabling more controlled use of tech. Or developing tech thats sensitive to the users mood so, presumably, could dial down notification pings if its ownerseems stressed.Vinaya is setting up what it dubsa research lab  aiming to feed insights about the brain/human habitsinto its product design process. The newly announcedseed investment will begoing towards establishing this lab, as well as scaling up manufacturing of the first product line, and product dev work on itsnext product (still in stealth).We realized there was a bit of a disconnect between the way technology was built in the startup culture and the way that wearables are built, in particular, but also digital products  and the actual academia, the scientific research, that should go into the development of these products, saysco-founder and CEO Kate Unsworth.From what Ive seen normally what happens is somebody has a bright idea that resonates with them and then they go back and post-rationalize it and say ok lets find the science to prove it. Maybe every now and again its the other way around but I think typically in these kind of mental health and wellbeing type products there seems to be a real disconnect between the real research thats going on in academia or in research institutions and then actually finding the applicable means of getting that to the consumer.The startup, previously known as Kovert Designs, is not talking too publicly about the full scope of its plans, but Unsworth says the vision is to apply data-analysis to brain activity and psychology to try to understand how people are feeling  and as a result of that the types of products that we can build to help them feel better.One future product, codenamedZephyr, will be a smart homedevice, although the initial product is a range of high end jewelry wearables, called Altrius.The first Altriuscollection islaunching in pre-ordernow for shipping in time for the holiday  although the first version of the productwas also soft launched in a limited run last Christmas. The overall aim with the wearablesis to help hyper connected tech users stopdigging their phone out of their pocket every few minutes to see if they have any new messages.Items in the Altriuswearable collection are made from high end materials including sterling silver, gold plating and so on, withthe connectedtechembedded into the stone on individual pieces. Theinitial three wearables are: a connected ring, bracelet and necklace, priced at 220, 250 and275 respectively.The first collection is designed for women but the plan is to expand witha male line in future, according to Unsworth.Users can choose which item most suits them  andcould choose towear all three (for full #fashion) but theres no tech-based reason to do that; only one at a time will linkto the companion iOS app to functionas the notification filter.As with other notification wearables (e.g. Apple Watch) orexisting connected jewelry (e.g. Ringly) the idea with Altrius isthe jewelry vibratesfor custom notifications (these are configured via the app)  so the user can set their own parameters for when they absolutely need to be alerted to an incoming missive.Allowing them to  in theory  leave their phone in their bag/pocket for longer. (Of course they do still need their phone nearby/on their personas the jewelry links up to it via Bluetooth.)One feature of Altrius whichUnsworth flags up as novel vsother similar notification wearables is a feature called secret words, which allows users to select and provide a specific keyword to particular people  such as key colleagues, for instance so those people can specifically override an Altrius usersdo-not-disturb settings when they really need to contact them.Unsworth, a former tech consultant with a maths degree, says the idea for the startup came to her as a result of her own battle to disconnect from tech. I was managing big teams of developers building platforms and apps and websites and all sorts. Got to the point where I was just so dialed in I was online 24/7 that I just hit this tipping point and I realized Id developed this really unhealthy relationship with my technology, she tells TechCrunch. It was detracting from who I really was.Altrius has been designed for similarly hyper connected people to help them try and regain control of their notifications, she says.Its a collection of smart designer jewelry, its very high end compared to a lot of the other wearables out there, its sterling silver, gold plated, and we treat it very much like a jewelry line. And the purpose of the product is to help you understand your digital habits and take control of your smartphone addiction, she adds.Super simple in terms of actual functionality  it allows you to set different profiles. So I have work and play, and within each profile you can add specific people. And you can toggle on and off what notifications are allowed through from those people  so email, text, WhatsApp, phone calls. So you receive a vibration when those specific people contact you.Cant people just set profiles on their smartphones to do this? And/or dial back specific app notifications? And/or set a do not disturb feature on their phone?Of course they can, butUnsworth argues that software-based filter features still require people to engage with their phone  and so encourage them to be suckedback into theaddictive notification-checking cycle they are trying to avoid in the first place.The problem is that its not the tools that create the issue. Its actually our own psychological behaviors, she argues. So its really like the brain is to blame, not the technology. So the brain wires itself in different ways in order to receive the rewards that your smartphone notifications give, right. It literally rewires its synapses because its found a faster route to receive rewards so the fact that you might have an app on your phone or you might have the ability to go into settings on your phone and set specific filters up is not really helpful.Because once Ilook at myphone mybrain still wants to check email and refresh, and it still wants to check Instagram or whatever it is. So really its understanding the behavioral psychology and also the neuroscience behind it. And theres a tonne of studies that show it really is the visual stimulae that gets us distracted.In this case it really is a question of out of sight, out of mind, she adds. So if we can build products and tools that allow you to remain somewhat connected but leave the screens out of sight  so you can actually remain focused on whats going on  then thats proven to be really beneficial.What about the Apple Watch? Isnt Altrius treading pretty similar ground there too?Unsworth arguesnot dubbing the Apple Watch an enabler when it comes to hyper connected/digitally addictedtech users, being as she argues it makes notifications more accessible.For a digital addict to have a screen on your wrist that makes notifications more accessible is only adding to the problem, she adds.So how big a market is this hyper connected/digitally addicted target market for Vinayas products? Thats tbc, says Unsworth, who does not offer any metrics on the size of the market the business is seeking to address.Well see, she says.We get really good responses from parents, from young professionals, from students, but weve not gone on sale yet so well see who it resonates with the most. Its definitely a specific market; its not for everybody. Some people want to be connected 24/7. And this product isnt for them. This is for people who are looking to find more ways to find balance in their life.If its more balance/less tech you need, then buying more tech does seem a rathercontradictory message (vs,for instance, taking up meditation or yoga). But perhaps the point is that some technology users just cant help themselves  so when it comes to trying to switch off theyd rather shell out on more tech to remainpartially connected.Whether thats ultimately helping peopleimprove their mental wellbeing bygiving them the means to controltheirtechaddiction, orcontinuing to (drip)feed that addiction with yet another way to stay connected will presumably depend on the person in question.Some people have demanded bosses, demanding jobs, some people need to be on call, maybe theyre a nurse, sick parents in hospital. We live in a world where were expected to be online to some extent and what were trying to do is make that level of connectivity more customized. So rather than being on or off we want to be able to say ok Im now 10 per cent connected, only to emergency notifications. Or Im 5 per cent connected, or Im 60 per cent connected. But up until these types of products, and these types of ideas, really we didnt have much of a choice, adds Unsworth.