The company behindViv, a powerful form of AI builtby Siris creators which is able to learn from the world toimprove upon its capabilities,has just closed on $12.5 million in Series B funding. Multiple sources close to the matter confirm the round, which was oversubscribed and values the company at north of nine figures.The funding was led byIconiq Capital, the so-called Silicon Valley billionaires club that operates a cross between a family office and venture capital firm.While Iconiq may not be a household name,a Forbes investigation into its client list revealed peoplelike Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg, Dustin Moskovitz and Sheryl Sandberg, Twitters Jack Dorsey, LinkedIns Reid Hoffman and other big names were on its roster.In addition to Iconiq, Li Ka-shings Horizons Venturesand Pritzker Group VCalso participated along withseveralprivate individuals. This new round follows the companys $10 million Series A from Horizons, bringing thetotal funding to date to $22.5 million.Viv Labs declined to comment on the investment.We understand that Viv Labswas not in need of new capital, but wasrather attracted to the possibilities that working with Iconiq Capital provided. It was a round that was more opportunistic in nature, and was executed to accelerate the vision for the Viv product, which is meant to not only continue Siris original vision, but to actually surpass it in a number of areas.Vivs co-founders,Dag Kittlaus,Adam Cheyer and Chris Brigham, had previously envisioned Siri as an AI interface that would become the gateway to the entire Internet, parsing and understanding peoples queries which were spoken using natural language.When Siri first launched its product, it supported 45services, but ultimately the team wanted to expand it with the help of third parties to access the tens of thousands of APIs available on the Internet today.That didnt come to pass, because Apple ended up acquiring Siri insteadfor $200 million back in 2010. The AI revolution the team once sought was left unfinished,and Siri became a device-centric product  one that largely connects users to Apples services and other iOS features. Sirican only do what its been programmed to do, and when it doesnt know an answer, it kicks youout to the web.Of course, Apple should be credited for seeing the opportunity to bring an AI system like Siri to the masses, by packaging it up and marketing it so people could understand its value. Siri investorGary Morgenthaler, a partner atMorgenthaler Ventures, who also invested personally in Viv Labs new round, agrees.Now 500 million people globally have access to Siri, he says. More than 200 million people use it monthly, and more than 100 million people use it every day. By my count, thats the fastest uptake of any technology in history  faster than DVD, faster than smartphones  its just amazing, Morgenthaler adds.But Siri today is limited. While shes able to perform simpler tasks, like checking your calendar orinteractingwith apps like OpenTable, she struggles to piece information together. She cant answer questions that she hasnt already been programmed to understand.Viv is different. It can parse natural language and complex queries, linking different third-party sources of information together in order to answer the query at hand. And it does so quickly, and in a way that will make it an ideal user interface for the coming Internet of Things  that is, the networked, everyday objects that well interact with using voice commands.AWired articleabout Viv and its creators described the system as one thatwill be taught by the world, know more than it was taught and it will learn something new everyday.Morgenthaler, who says hes seen Viv in action, calls it impressive.It does what it claims to do, he says. The part that still needs to be put into action, however, is the most crucial: Viv needs to be programmed by the world in order to really come to life.While to some extent, Viv is the next iteration of Siri in terms of this vision of connecting people to aworld of knowledge thats accessed via voice commands, in many ways its very different. Its potentially much more powerful than other intelligent assistants accessed by voice,including not only Sir, but also Google Now, Microsofts Cortana or Amazons Alexa.Unlike Siri, the system is not static. Viv will have memory.It will understand its users in the aggregate, with respect to their language, their behavior, and their intent, explainsMorgenthaler. But it will also understand you and your own behavior and preferences, he says. It willadjust its weighting and probabilities so it gets things right more often. So it will learn from its experiences in that regard, he says.In Wireds profile, Viv was described as being valuable to the service economy, ordering an Uber for you because you told the system Im drunk, for example, or making all the arrangements for your Match.com date including the car, the reservations and even flowers.Another option could be booking flights for business travelers, who speak multi-partqueries like I want a short flight to San Francisco with a return three days later via Dallas. Viv would show you your options and youd tell it to book the ticket  which it would proceed to do for you, already knowing things like your seat and meal preferences as well as yourfrequent flyer number.Also unlike Siri today, Viv will be open to third-party developers. And it will be significantly easier for developers to add new functionality to Viv, as compared toSiri in the past. This openness will allow Viv to add new domains of knowledge to its global brain more quickly.Having learned from their experiences with Apple, the Viv Labsteam is not looking to sell its AI to a single company but instead is pursuing a business model where Viv will be made available to anyone with the goal of becoming a ubiquitous technology.In the future, if the team succeeds, a Viv icon may be found on Internet-connected devices, informing you of the devices AI capabilities.For that reason, the investment by Iconiq makes sense, givenits clients run some of the largest Internet companies today.We understand that Viv will launch a beta of its software sometime this year, which will be the firststep towards having it programmed by the world.Morgenthaler says theres no question that the team can deliver  after all, they took Siri from the whiteboard to a world-changing technology in just 28 months, he notes. The questions instead for Viv Labs are around scalability and its ability to bring in developers. It needs to deliver on all these bigpromises to users, and generate sufficient interest from the wider developer community. It also needs to find a distribution path and partners who will help bring it to market  again, things that Iconiq can help with.But Viv Labs is not alone in pursing itsgoal. Google bought AI startup DeepMind for over half a billion, has since gone on to aqui-hire more AI teamsand, as Wired noted, has alsohired AI legendsGeoffrey Hinton and Ray Kurzweil to join its company.Viv may not deliver on its full vision right out of the gate, but itscore engine has been built at this point and it works. Plus,the timing for AIs next step feelsright.The idea of embedding a microphone and Internet access is plummeting in price, says Morgenthaler. If access to global intelligence and the ability to recognize you, recognize your speech, understand what you said, and provide you services in an authenticated way  if that is available, thats really transformative.