DFRobot, a company that has been building robots for the education market since 2008, this week introduced its first attempt at making a robot accessible to all children, with the debut of Vortex an interactive, programmable robot aimed at kids 6 and up. The Vortex robot pairs with iOS and Android smartphones or tabletsover Bluetooth, and lets kids control its movement by tapping the screen in the Vortex app to initiate commands. It alsocomes four free, pre-programmed games  bumping fight, virtual golf, driving, and robot soccer, which canlater be customized by the child to create their own play experience.According toDFRobots CEORicky Ye, the companywanted to build a robot that would make learning robotics fun for younger children. The team already had plenty of experience building robot kits for schools and teachers, he notes, so it was able toleverage what had historically been the most popular elements used in classes and competitions when designing the new robot toy.We strongly believe learning should be fun, explainsYe. That is why the Vortex is pre-programmed with gamesBy playing those games, we think they will also want to learn how to create their own games, thus start learning how to program their robot, he says.The Vortex itself is easy to use, notesYe. After loading it up with four AA batteries, you just download the Vortexbot app from the App Store and begin to play. Some of its games  like bumping fight or soccer  require an additional robot toy, so would be betterfor families with more than one child. Others can be played independently, or allow kids tocompete against the robot AI.When kids are ready toprogram the robot, parentscan download the WhenDoapp from the App Store, which offers a variety of tutorials that will make it easy for kids to practice programming basics while customizing their games. However, while the WhenDo app has a simplified drag-and-drop interface as many learn-to-code programs today offer, its not something the average six-year could likely master without a parents help. That said, for abright, adept child, its the kind of app they could learn to better useover time.In addition, Vortex is open-source and is compatible with Arduino and Scratch, allowing kids to program the Vortexfrom a PC or Mac computer.The robot itself can navigate obstacles, detect lines and report back by using infrared, grey scale, and sound speakers.DFRobot is running a Kickstarter campaign to bring the Vortex to manufacturing. Although backing a crowdfunded project can sometimes be a risky bet, this is not the first time the company has used crowdfunding to help it move a robot from design and development into production. Previously, DFRobot used Kickstarter to fund a 3D printer called Overlord, which is shipping on time to backers, Ye says.With the current campaign, DFRobot is aiming to raise $50,000+ to meet the minimum order of 2,000 units required to manufacture the customized parts, including the body, eyes, and wheels, as well as pass product tests like CE (for European markets) and the FCC in the U.S.Ye also tells usthat the Vortex prototype is already functional, and theapps are live in the App Store.The plan is to begin shipping the robots by the end of this October.Kickstarter backers can currently grab a Vortex two-pack for $131, or choose larger sets  like 3, 4, 6 or 10 robots instead for an increased fee.