Earlier this year a London-based cyber security incubator called CyLon opened its doors. Now Europe is gettinga pro-privacy bootcamp program, with bootstrapped Romania-based VPN startupCyberGhostthis week kicking off a search for startups wanting support to buildprivacy tech.Where Londons CyLon incubator appears to haveacosy relationship with U.K. government security agencies  perhaps with its eye ontaxpayer cash available fortech suppliers working with these same agencies  CyberGhost is pushing its accelerator in the opposite direction, looking to build businesses based on servingweb users who wantto safeguard their privacy online in the face of mass surveillance and user-tracking activity which spans (and links) the public and private sector.So while both these bootcamps might talk about security, only CyberGhosts can be said to be pro-privacy.CyberGhost says it willbe investing up to 25,000 ($27,000) in selected teams for its bootcamp, taking anequity stake of around 5%  the exact stake will be negotiated per team. Ithas a total pot of 100,000 to go towards the first intake (funded by CyberGhosts own profits). Selected startupswill work out of itsoffices (pictured above) in Bucharest.The criteria for entry to the program can be found here.We dont have too many expectations, its the first time were doing this. And its the first time that there is an accelerator also in Bucharest that is first run by a company I would be happy, seriously, if find one  just one [idea] that is killer,says CyberGhost CEO and co-founder RobKnapp.The European Union is overall a good place for privacy-related projects, companies, he adds, discussing the thinkingbehind setting up a dedicated accelerator for privacy.For the first time in history we have an advantage towards American companies Cyber security and the United States of American is simply a no-go. It doesnt fit together. Its not working. So we are able to build maybe some unicorns here in Europe. But for that we need an ecosystem.Knapp notes that CyberGhostsVPN tech is based on an API  meaning it canoffer startups participating in thebootcamp an anonymousfoundation to underpin their pro-privacy idea.A lot of projects we expect in this program need an access through a VPN so this part is already done  people can just use that. Startups who want to build something where they need a subscription model, they need accounts, its all done, its all integrated in our API In five minutes somebody could buid a VPN product, based on our network, he says.Tech areas where Knapp says he sees big, untapped opportunities for startups to innovate around privacyinclude perennial privacy frustrations such aspasswords and email  and alsocloud storage.Last year Edward Snowden himself called on web users who care about their privacy to ditch Dropbox and switch to end-to-end encrypted alternatives. He has also called on developers to champion privacy by design, and work on building pro-privacy and security technologies that are accessible to mainstream consumers.The future of file storage is decentralized, argues Knapp. Like Bitcoin. Nobody can ever switch down Bitcoin Nobody can ever influence, control, manipulate it, whatever.Startups with a privacy-focused ideathinking about applying for CyberGhosts program dont have to restrict themselves to theareas Knappflags up  so long as theyshare the companysphilosophy of puttingprivacy at the core of a business innovation.CyberGhostwill be selecting teams for its bootcamp this September, and is looking to kick off theprogram in October. There is no fixed-in-stone program length at this point, buthe pegs half a year as a likely timeframe. Everything should be done in six months. You should be able to do everything we want to do here in six monthsto bring a product to market, he adds.Interestingly, although CyberGhost itself was founded in Germany in 2011, the teamrelocated to Bucharest seekinga more conducivebusiness environment forits anti-data retention ethos following attempts by German law enforcement to require itto retain logs. (Which it does not do.)We are a privacy company. We respect the privacy of our users by default. And we dont collect data just because its there. We think about what kind of data we need to run the service and what kind of data we dont need to run the service, says Knapp.So what we are doing here [with the bootcamp] is to prove you can grow a company, sustainable, onthe long term, with success and profitability, without using all this data.Its just not necessary. Its just a myth that you need data to run all businesses.We have a security industry that protects data because we store data. So why do we startstoring data? The best data security is not to store it. Its very simple.The political climatein Germany has been becoming less friendly to pro-privacy technologies in recent years, according to Knapp  since Chancellor Schroeder and in the subsequent Merkel-led era.Germany is always one of the first countries adapting European Union surveillance programs. So for example Germany was one of the first countries that was totally into this data retention law. Then the constitutional court in Germany said it is unconstitutional Now the new government again built a new data retention law, even worse than the first. So its not really a climate where you want to build a privacy company, he tells TechCrunch.Why did CyberGhost settle on Romania?Romania is a post-Communism country, obviously. The revolution was 1989. Thats not so long ago, he says.A lot of things in Romania are well functioning, that is the constitutional court and this is the constitution itself  its a very liberal constitution regarding civil rights and private data. Why? Because it is a post-Communist country. So they have the experience of mass surveillance, and that is not  like in Germany  40, 50, 60 years ago. It is just a few years ago, so this is very alive.Romania was one of the first countries where, for example, the data retention law was cut down by the constitutional court, he adds. So the legal background fits, and the climate fits. People here are really not interested in having the Big Brother state.It was actually reading about U.S. interest inRomanian tech skills on TechCrunchthat led Knapp to investigate and ultimately select the country as an alternative base for the business. I thought if the American guys try to get Romanians to work in America and its for me just three hours flight, why dont I just go there and have a look! he says.CyberGhosts VPN software has some 5 million users to date, and300,000 daily active users, with the top country for usage beingGermany, followed by the U.S., U.K. and France.CyberGhost VPN is not a VPN company. What we do right now is we offer a VPN service we are a privacy-as-a-service company, addsKnapp. We have a clear goal  and this goal is we want to build a technology that gives you a free and secure and private access to what we have right not in the Internet. So for that we need people around us who work on different things  so instead of waiting for it, we have to do something about it.We believe in privacy, we believe that this is something that the world needs and people will demand at some point The market will develop slowly but very constantly over the next years.