VR could enlighten and heal, not just entertain. Its immersiveness could distract us from pain, help us face our phobias, or give us first-hand training. We have a belief that VR will disrupt every industry. And its global. So we made efforts to find companies in every different industry and that are global Rothenberg Ventures founder Mike Rothenberg about the startups selected for his funds first virtual reality accelerator class.The 13 companies will receive $100,000 investments, three months of office space in San Francisco, mentorship from industry veterans, and access to a broad network of investors, talent, and other VR startup that could be potential partners. After receiving several hundred application, the Rothenberg Ventures River Accelerator is already planning a second class later this year.VR is a fragmented space where it takes a combination of hardware, software, and content to demonstrate technology in any of those disciplines. Thats why getting startups working on the next big computing in one building could be so fruitful.Rothenberg Ventures office where the River VR accelerator class will work together
Rothenberg Ventures is only two years old, started by a then-28 year-old Stanford and Harvard Business alum. Yet by focusing on adding value through his young, influential network and helping startups with whatever they need, Mike Rothenberg has scored space in rounds for some of todays hottest startups.Rothenberg Ventures received the highest average ranking of any fund by investment analyst Mattermark, topping Union Square Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz. Its also invested in SpaceX, AngelList, Revel, Patreon, ApartmentList, and Robinhood. But after seeing the ecosystem forming around its VR investments Matterport (3D scanning), Altspace (VR social network, and Merge (affordable foam headset), Rothenberg built an entire VR accelerator.Heres a look at the companies joining the first class:Psious lets people conquer fears like public speaking with its simulatorsEmblematics Project Syria shows you what its like to be the victim of a bombingExplore The CaveArt from a Thotwise gameMike Rothenberg, a true VR geekIf you can get people to learn faster, better,deeper, that empathy is something they will carry with them forever, and theyll pay it forward the boy-faced investor beams.I think this is the most effective education medium ever created.If he seems enthusiastic, youve got it right. I saw Rothenberg carry a VR headset around parties and nightclubs at Sundance Film Festival, eagerly sticking it on everyone from movie directors to Lil Jon. Hes the kinda guy who walks around saying things like With VR, imagination is our only constraint.Thats why Rothenberg could win big in virtual reality: its an industry of enthusiasts. VR isnt quite a business yet. Its inventors and storytellers nerding out on the potential to change the human experience.It takes a VR geek to find a VR geek.