Lucid Sight, Inc., an LA-based VR game studio,announced today that they have closed a $3.5 million Series A round of funding led byRana Capital Partners, B.V. and Salem Partners. This raise brings the companys total funding to $4 million. Previous investors included AdColony founder Jonathan Zweig.Coinciding with the funding announcement is Lucid Sights release of aVR Ad SDK. Lucid Sight is hoping that game developers can use thisplatform to monetize their content for users with immersive in-app ads. The company is using this latest raise to build out their own library of contentso they can both increase their presence on various headsets and show off their ad platform. The game studio currently has three titles(Poly Runner VR, Gumi No Yume and Space Bit Attack) available across the majorheadsets and theyre looking to expand the number of free, ad-supported titles theyve put out to 20 by the years end.Poly Runner VRAdvertising in virtual reality is in a pretty weird place right now where game developers dont want to implement it haphazardly and piss off users, but Lucid Sight is hoping it can get in on the ground floor of this opportunity before VR ads start getting big.This is familiar footing for the Lucid Sight founders, Randy Saaf and Octavio Herrera, who have pursued this path to success before ona different paradigm-shifting platform, mobile. The pair co-founded Jirbo in 2008, an iPhone gamingcompany that dominated the Apple App Store in its early days. The teamwould soon evolve Jirbosgaming efforts into building out its video ad network for in-app advertisements. The teamlater solda majority stake of the company toInsight Venture Partners. Jirbosoon rebranded as AdColony and would go on to besold to Opera for $350 million.For advertisers, VR represents a really enticing platform to showoff engaging sponsored content, but the fact is there just arent that many places to view that content at the moment.Its very hard to express a VR experience on a 2D platform like the web or a mobile screen, Saaf told me. So, the only place you can really show a VR experience is within another VR experience.Lucid Sighthas seen early successes with the 360-degree content theyve been pushing in-app through their own games. Even with an opt-out after 10 seconds, the company told me that over 20% of users chose to watch the entirety of a 4-minute sponsored ad based around the Lions Gate film The Divergent Series: Allegiant within their game PolyRunner VR.Relevant metrics are occasionally hard to come by in the VR space. Oculus revealed last week that the Samsung Gear VR had surpassed 1 million users last month so were starting to get more useful benchmarks for device and content popularity. Lucid Sightstill isnt quite ready togive exact download numbers, but did specify that theirgames were impressively on a high double-digit percentage of current Gear VR devices.Ads may not be something users are clamoring for in virtual reality, but its likelygoing to take significantlymore free, ad-supported content in the various headset app stores for people to actually try out some of the awesome stuffVR game studios are creating.