Were just a little under two weeksaway from the 9th Annual Crunchies, which takes place February 8, 2016 at San Franciscos War Memorial Opera House. As we look ahead to the show, we also wanted to take time to look back at past Crunchies shows to see how the show has progressed over the years.After Facebook won the Best Overall Startup or Product award at the first three Crunchies, it was another social networks turn to win at the 4th Crunchies in 2011. After nipping at Zuckerbergs heels for a few years, Twitter took home the award at the 4th Annual Crunchies.2010 was the year music streaming became mainstream, with Pandora and Rdio taking the winner and runner-up spots, respectively, in the Best Internet Application category. That year was also the year Groupon surged into the mainstream: The daily deal service won the Best Social Commerce App, was runner up to Twitter in the Best Overall Startup or Product category, and itsfounder and former-CEO Andrew Mason won the CEO of the Year award.There were a lot of other cool things that landed in 2010, including Google Maps for Android (Best Mobile Application), Googles self-driving cars (Best Technology Achievement), and the iPad (Best New Device), which we used to play Angry Birds (somehow only the runner up for Best Time Sink Application).At the fifth annual Crunchies in 2012, cloud storage stormed onto the scene, with Dropbox taking home the awards for Best Cloud Service and Best Overall Startup of 2011. The popularity of the cloud also saw Dropbox CEO Drew Houston as the runner up for Founder of the Year.There were a slew of other useful products and services that took home awards at the 5th Annual Crunchies. Perhaps most notably, Apples Siri mobile assistant was the Best Technology Achievement, Evernote won the Best Mobile Application, Nest was the Best New Device, Imgur was the Best Bootstrapped Startup and Pinterest was the Best New Startup of 2011.And there were a handful of products that seemingly failed to take off. Google+  the Best Social Application of 2011  had a pretty passionate user base at the outset, but the community has largely died down since then, and Path 2.0 seems to have never gotten on the path to wide user adoption.Which companies will take home the coveted Crunchies from this years show? Youll definitely want to be there to find out for yourself. Tickets are now available on our ticketing page, where for as little as $115, youll get into the main show and the incredible after-party that includes a hosted bar, hors doeuvres, networking and other fun surprises we have in store for you. Cant wait to see you there.Our sponsors help make the Crunchies happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.