Back in November rumors surfacedin the Spanish-speaking press that little known Wallapop  a second hand marketplace mobile app for snappingpictures of your stuff and selling it locally  had raised a round of funding from Accel Partners. Neither Wallapop nor Accel commented and the English-speaking media failed to pick up the story. However, the claim was that Accel had taken an around 20 per cent stake in the company for 3 million. After investigating further, our sources say Accel led the Series A in Q2 last year. A company spokesperson told us they have: No comment this time.TechCrunch understands that New Yorks Insight Venture Partners led the Series B in Q4 to the tune of $25 million. Then last month Spanish newspaperLaVanguardia reported that Wallapop had closed a $40 million (38 million) round. Once again the company refused to comment but this report is believed to refer to the Insight funding round last year.Bu thats not all.Our sources tell us that Wallapop is in the process of raising a huge new round. Onesource pegs this at$100 million, with Fidelity Growth Partners and multiplesuper angels involved, along with Accel.Why wouldWallapopneed such a large cash injectionso soon after a sizable Series B? Its fair to say there are a lot of players contending to win inthis space  and itsinvestorsmay well view itas a race to scale up fast to become the consumer brand of choice before another app gets there first. Shopping sites need plenty of inventory to attract buyers, and plenty of buyers to attract sellers, so theres added incentive for this type of business to scale users quickly.Over the pond, competitors to Wallapop include OfferUp, a Seattle-based competitor, that Re/Code reported as trying to raise between $60 million and$100 millionin venture capitalback in March, and Toronto-based VarageSale. Another player in EuropeisBalderton-backedsocial shopping app, Depop, which raised an $8 million Series A thisJanuary.More detail about Wallapop haspreviously surfaced on local tech site Novobrief which notes that the app, quietly founded in 2013 by CEO Agustn Gmez, Gerard Olive (BeRepublic) and Miguel Vicente (Letsbonus), raised an early seed round of 1.6 million from Caixa Capital Risc, Bonsai Venture Capital, ESADE Ban, Antai, Grupo God and Grupo Zeta (both media companies).A few months after that it took in1.3 million from Atresmedia as part of a media for equity deal.A series of Wallapop TV adverts subsequently became famous on Spanish TV and supercharged growth. Heres a taster:This TV activity likely hints at the type of high profile marketingthe startup plans to spend bigon to battle for scale on contested territory.Wallapop now has a sizablea war chest  of up to $140 million, which would potentially give it up to a$1 billionvaluation  and is gunning for the classified ads market with a vengeance.Just as Airbnb owns no houses and Uber owns no cars, Wallapop owns no inventory. Look out Craigslist. And, well, eBay.