Google-owned navigation app Waze is expanding its ride-sharing ambitions with the launch of a pilot program in the San Francisco Bay area which will allow employees of select companies to carpool to and from work via Wazes carpooling service. This program is similar to the service Waze began testing last year in Tel Aviv, Israel,via an app called RideWith.The app wasrebranded from RideWith to Waze Rider in the beginning of thisyear, and continues to focus on workplace commutes.The carpooling service takesadvantage of Wazes navigation system to learn the routes drivers most frequently take to work, then matches those people up with others looking for a ride in the same direction.The app, now live to U.S. commuters in the Bay Area, works the same as it did in Israel.To use the carpooling service, commuters look for the closest driver already planning a drive on their route, then they schedule a ride. Drivers, meanwhile, receive ride requests in Waze, and choose to either accept the request or decline. The service matches riders and drivers with nearly identical commutes based on their home and work addresses, which are verified by Waze and set in advance through Waze Carpool, the company explains.The app isalso differentiated from businesses like Uber and Lyft, as drivers arenot earning salaries. Instead, drivers areonlypaid a smallfee to cover their gas which issuggested by the app to the commuters. This fee is the standard rate the IRS suggests  54 cents per mile.Ride payments are transferred from riders to drivers automatically through the app. Right now, Waze is not taking a cut of that transaction.This business model makes it more of a help each other out kind of offering  drivers get some gas money, and riders can save on their commuting costs.While that means its not a directUber and Lyft competitor in terms of hiring drivers and providing new jobs, it could still compete in terms of stealing away customers from those services and others. It may especially resonate with those commutersin search of more affordable alternatives, or even those whowant to socialize with fellow employees with during their commutes.The Waze Carpool service is going live in the Bay Area, but its not broadly available. However, it issupporting the rides of 25,000 employees, including those from UCSF, Adobe and Walmart Global eCommerce, according to SFGate.Currently, the service is offeredto a select group of employers and their commuters on an invite-only basis, Wazes website explains. Riders whose employers are participating in the pilot program can download the Waze Rider app and register using their corporate email. Others can sign up to be emailed when the program expands.