TechCrunch is looking for a Startup Battlefield Manager!TechCrunchs Startup Battlefield is the worlds preeminent startup competition and is at the very heart of Disrupt. At each event selected startups have an opportunity to pitch in front of top-notch investors, compete for $50K and the Disrupt Cup. More than that, teams get lots of public visibility, which is great for getting users, hiring and raising capital.Prior to Disrupt, all Battlefield teams go through a rigorous coaching process and end up with solid presentation skills, hard-earned pitching prowess and newfound courage.Over the years, the Battlefield has grown into a community of over 600 companies who together have raised $6.1 billion and had 76 exits. Were ready to take this program to the next level.Were looking for a bright, talented person to help manage the entire process, from bringing in applicants to picking the finalists and getting them ready for the Disrupt stages in San Francisco, New York, London and at CES.Are you already in the Startup Whisperer role at a popular accelerator and think you can take your show on the road? Are you a former founder looking to support early-stage entrepreneurs? Do you read TechCrunch every day and want to get involved? Can you find the next big thing?Job descriptionTechCrunch is looking for someone to oversee the Startup Battlefield process in all its phases  including applicant recruitment, applicant review and selection (working under the direction ofTechCrunch Director of Special Projects),coaching sessions and, finally, stage management at Disrupt. In addition to those responsibilities, the role will aim to recruit continuously stronger pools of Battlefield applicants, strengthen and streamline our rehearsal program and further the Battlefield franchise, both online and offline, for applicants and alums.The role requires a strong writer to manage many threads of communication with the many parties who make up the Battlefield. The core of the job is a strong ability to work with relatively green, unlaunched startups and prepare them to present brilliantly on the TC Disrupt stage before a group of highly distinguished judges. That preparation process takes enormous focus and commitment.Candidates should have deep experience in the startup world and direct experience working with startups and investors to help shape new ideas and prepare them to pitch investors. They should possess very strong personal and written communication skills, outstanding organizational skills, a high capacity for detail work and a very patient and winning attitude.How to applyPlease send your resume and a private YouTube video link to sam@techcrunch.com with the subject line Startup Battlefield Manager Application. In the video, take one minute to pitch us on why youd be a great Battlefield Manager.(Production quality of the video will not be considered.)