
Tom Goodwin is senior vice president of strategy and innovation at Havas Media.Weve fallen in love with apps. Its hard to see something so popular fading into thepast, but what if that happened? What if apps were simply an iteration of the mobileweb, before something better came along?With the flurry of announcements that occurred around Facebooks F8 conference, perhapsthat time has finally come.Are we witnessing the rise of the Bots?Since 2010, there has been an app for that. However, such excitement appears to be diminishing. On your own homescreen (the most valuable real estate on earth), whatnew apps are using that space?For every iPhone sold, 119 apps have been downloaded. However, we use fewer thana quarter of those apps in any given month. The average app loses 77% of its userswithin three days after being downloaded. The five apps that we love the most take up80% of our session time.Over the past few years, click to download display ads have littered feeds. It seemed like every retailers mCommerce strategy was to make an iPhone or Watch app. For many who were first to market, it seemed like a gold rush. On reflection, maybe our belief was more concerning the power of technology to change habits than empathizing with consumer needs.Of course, apps have limitations. Probably the best marketing Apple has ever done is turning the boring notion of a computer program into the excitement of an app. They work brilliantly for many uses. Banking or airline apps do a superb job of bubbling up personal, secure information rapidly, a sort of micro-portal to what matters.That said, again, as instant messaging and voice control takes off, it increasingly seems that apps are not the solution for everything.Forcing a terrible choiceApps provide an increasingly lousy way to get to what we want. Apple confidently saysthe future of TV is apps, which is stupid in the extreme. They merely replicate the false,anachronistic structure of the world of the TV channel.Do I watch AMC or Breaking Bad? Do I want to see Superbowl or tune into CBS?Modern relationships are with the content, not the curator or the pipe. Can you imaginedownloading 20 record label apps in order to get our music, and then needing to switchbetween them?Its the same with communications. Back in 2006, I could either call or text anyone in mycontact list: a simple choice to make. Now with Viber, Line, WeChat, Instagram,Facebook Messenger, Twitter and a million other ways to reach someone, I first need topick the app before I select the person that I want to reach and then hope that its theone which theyre on.When I want to travel to the airport, I unfailingly want a car to take me there. I dont wantto choose the provider, then the size of the the car, then its destination.This brings up the first mechanism for the future: aggregation.AggregationMy TV is set up with four remotes, and watching John Oliver after broadcast requires me to press nine button via Kafkaesque menus.I long for a day where a single app can be the gateway to a content type. It would be similar to how I use Spotify to listen to all of the music that I care about, or Twitter to consume all the news Im likely to need. I see apps that bring what we care about to the front.Apple TV wants to do this, but Apple doesnt have the partnerships in place to drawupon all the content providers in the world. If business models can be developed, I seethe rise of megaportals with maps as the primary access point for all travel, hotels,events, and places. This would be alongside another portal to access all of my networksand ways to reach them, and additional megaportals for retail and content.The Internet of appsI then see our journeys within apps being one of linkage. A consumer may start aconversation on Facebook Messenger discussing movie times, before seeingsuggested movies in the feed based on our locations.Buying and downloading ticketswould happen straight to Passbook, with Touch ID and Apple Pay. They then may beoffered dinner reservations in Opentable, book a time via in-app IM, and then finallyorder an Uber to take them there. Each of these experiences will be within an appenvironment:: seamless, secure and personalized.The Internet could soon become onetotally personalized with apps.StreamingWe may want to order items from retailers that we dont care enough to use frequently,or a hotel site that only exists abroad. For this well see app streaming as an emulator ofan experience. Our Internet of apps may be formed of those that exist on our phone, butotherwise, well use temporary apps that are streamed to provide such an interface.New navigationThis is where artificial intelligence and bots come together.The notification layer might become a key way for us to skim the surface of the web,rather than deeply experiencing and discovering it. Combinations of technology like AI,machine learning, shared data and rich analysis from Google Now, Cortana and Siricould automate many parts of our lives.We need to think less of the Internet as something we go to, but more in terms of thenotification layer as a place for suggested prompts of what our phones think arerelevant to us.The cue to book an Uber as its raining and were running late; theweather forecast on our notification screen as we wake up; the rarely available 8 oclockdinner slot from a late cancellation; the late flight departure all best served to us as anotification.VoiceWe finally need to consider a screenless world. The Echo is an example of such adevice, as are some wearables. How do we use sound, haptic feedback or othermechanisms to impart knowledge without large real estate? Its this challenge that awhole new group of UI designers need to consider.Apps are here to stay. Bots wont kill them, but were about to move to a hybrid timewhere some apps become gateways to everything: they will allow us to choose what wewant, rather than who gives it to us