
Ritika Trikha is a tech writer at HackerRank.There was a time when Stanford University was considered a second-rate engineering school. It was the early 1940s, and the Department of Defense was pressed to assemble a top-secret team to understand and attack Germanys radar system during World War II. The head of the U.S. scientific research, Vannevar Bush, wanted the countrys finest radio engineer, Stanfords Frederick Terman, to lead 800 researchers on this secret mission. But instead of basing the team at Termans own Stanford lab  a mere attic with a leaky roof  he was sent to the acclaimed Harvard lab to run the mission.Its hard to imagine Stanford passed over as an innovation hub today. Stanford has outpaced some of the biggest Ivy League universities in prestige and popularity. It has obliterated the traditional mindset that eliteness is exclusive to the Ivy League. Stanford has lapped top schools by centuries. It ranks in the top 3 in multiple global and national rankings (here, here and here). Plus, survey results point to Stanford as the No. 1 choice of most students and parents for the last few years, over Harvard, Princeton and Yale. In fact, even Harvard students have acknowledged Stanfords notable rise in popularity.But something a little more intriguing is happening on Stanfords campussomething that goes beyond these academic rankings. Since the beginning of time, the goal of academia has been not to create companies, but to advance knowledge for the sake of knowledge. Yet Stanfords engineering school has had a strong hand in building the tech boom that surrounds it today. Its not only witnessed, but also notoriously housed, some of the most celebrated innovations in Silicon Valley.While Stanford faculty and students have made notable achievements across disciplines, their role in shaping the epicenter of The Age of Innovation is perhaps one of the top  if not the mostunique  distinguishers. As the worlds eyes fixate on the booming tech scene in Silicon Valley, Stanfords affiliation shines brightly in the periphery. In return, its entrepreneurial alumni offer among the most generous endowments to the university, breaking the record as the first university to add more than $1 billion in a single year. Stanford shares a relationship with Silicon Valley unlike any other university on the planet, chartering a self-perpetuating cycle of innovation.But whats at the root of this interdependency, and how long can it last in the rapidly shifting space of education technology?To truly understand Stanfords role in building Silicon Valley, lets revisit WWII and meet Terman. As the leader of the top-secret military mission, Terman was privy to the most cutting-edge, and exclusive,electronics researchin his field. While the government was eager to invest more in electronics defense technology, he saw that Stanford was falling behind.War research which is [now] secret will be the basis of postwar industrial expansion in electronicsStanford has a chance to achieve a position in the West somewhat analogous to that of Harvard of the East, Terman predicted in a letter to a colleague. After the war, he lured some of the best students and faculty to Stanford in the barren West by securing sponsored projects that helped strengthen Stanfords reputation in electronics. Heres a great visualization, thanks to Steve Blank, about how Stanford first fueled its entrepreneurship engine through war funds:This focus on pushing colleagues and students to commercialize their ideas helped jumpstart engineering at Stanford. Eventually, Stanfords reputation grew to becoming a military technology resource, right up there with Harvard and MIT. But Termans advocacy of technology commercialization went beyond the military. As the Cold War began, Terman pushed to build the Stanford Industrial Park, a place reserved for private, cutting-edge tech companies tolease land.It was the first of its kind, and famously housed early tech pioneers like Lockheed, Fairchild, Xerox and General Electric.The research park was the perfect recipe for:You might say that the Stanford Industrial Park was the original networking hub for some of the brightest minds of technology, merging academia and industry, with the goal of advancing tech knowledge. They had a harmonic relationship in which industry folks took part-time courses at Stanford. In return, these tech companies offered great job opportunities for Stanford grads.Since then, Stanfords bridge from the university to the tech industry has been cast-iron strong, notorious for inspiring an entrepreneurial spirit in many students. The most famous story, of course, is that of Terman and his mentees William Hewlett and David Packard, who patented an innovative audio oscillator. Terman pushed the duo to take their breakthrough commercial. Eventually, Hewlett-Packard (HP) was born and moved into the research park as the biggest PC manufacturer in the world. To date, he and the late David Packard, together with their family foundations and company, have given more than $300 million to Stanford.Because of their proximity to top innovations, Stanford academics had the opportunity to spot technological shifts in the industry and capitalize by inventing new research breakthroughs. For instance:These are just a few of some of the most groundbreaking technological innovations sprouted from Stanford soil: Google, Sun Microsystems, Yahoo!, Cisco, Intuit  and the list goes on  to more than 40,000 companies. Stanford also has a reputation as a go-to pool for talent. For instance, the first 100 Googlers were also Stanford students. And today, 1 in 20 Googlers hail from Stanford.If you stroll along the 700 acres of Stanfords Research Park, not only will you see cutting-edge companies like Tesla and Skype, but also world-renowned tech law firms and R&D labs. Its a sprawling network of innovation in the purest sense of the term  its the best place to uproot a nascent idea.Proximity to Silicon Valley is not the most important thing that distinguishes Stanford, but its certainly the most unique. Its the hotbed of computer science innovators, deep-pocketed venture capital firms and angel investors. At least today, everyone who wants to make it in tech is going to Silicon Valley. And  just like Termans early Stanford days  its where you can meet the right people with the right resources who can help you turn the American entrepreneurial dream into a reality. Just look at the increasing number of H-1B visa applicants each year, most of whom work in tech. There were more than 230,000 applicants in 2015, up from 170,000 in 2014. Four out of the top 11 cities that house the most H-1B visa holders are all in Silicon Valley.Plus, an increasing number of non-tech companies are setting up R&D shops in Silicon Valley. Analyst Brian Solis recently led a survey of more than 200 non-tech companies; 61 percent of those had a presence in Silicon Valley, which helped them gain access and exposure to the latest technology.Still, opponents often point to media exaggeration that reduce Stanford into a startup-generator. Of course, Stanfords prestigious curriculum is a draw for top faculty and research across disciplines. But, given the evidence and anecdotes, theres certainly a robust emphasis on technology entrepreneurship penetrating the campus of Stanford engineers. How can it not?Michael Harris, a Stanford alumnus, can attest to a general sense of drive and passion. Its not quite as dominant as the media makes it seem, he said,but theres some element of truth.Stanford students are by and large interested in creating real things that have a real effect in the world. The fact that Silicon Valley is right here and students have fairly good access through friends, professors, the school, etc. to people in the industry is definitely a big bonus. It gets people excited about doing work in the tech industry and feeling motivated and empowered to start something themselves.Termans early emphasis on turning the ideas developed in academia into viable products is just as  if not more  rampant today. The most telling evidence is that Stanfords campus is producing more tech startup founders than any other campus.But whats even more curious is that some students, particularly in the graduate department, dont evenfinish their degrees. Its monumental to pay thousands of dollars for a masters degree in computer science, only to leave to launch a startup. Even at the undergrad level, Harris thought about leaving college after doing one amazing internship the summer after his junior year.I will say that working in industry teaches you more things faster about doing good work in industry than school does by a really big margin (order of magnitude maybe), Harris said, so I dont actually think its crazy for people not to go back to school other than the fact that some companies seem to think its important for someone to have a piece of paper that says they graduated from college.Of course, most people do finish their degrees. But this sense of urgency to leave  whether or not the majority follow through  is palpable.Last year, six Stanford students quit school to work at the same startup. Another 20 left for similar reasons the year before that. Apparently, Stanfords coveted StartX program wasnt enough for them. StartX is an exclusive 3-month incubator program to help meet the demand for students who want to take their business ideas to the market  complete with renowned mentorship and support from faculty and industry experts to help the brightest Stanfordites turn their ideas into a reality.In a recent talk, Stanford President John Hennessy proudly spoke about this program as a launchpad for students to scratch their itch for entrepreneurship. But when an audience member asked him about students dropping out of school, he said, Look, for every one Instagram success, there are another 100 failed photo-sharing sites. And, he added,So far, all of the StartX program students have graduated  at least all of the undergrads. Generally, Stanfords graduation rates have dipped somewhat in recent years. Of students who enrolled in 2009, 90 percent had graduated within 5 years, Stanford said, compared with a 5-year graduation rate of 92.2 percent 5 years earlier. And this is not a bad thing for Stanford. Since the very beginning, a core function of Stanfords excellence is its investment in its students to build great commercial products starting with the early days of Terman.But both education and the Valley are shifting. The very nature of innovation frees us from brick-and-mortar walls of elite institutions and companies. If the best application of technology is to democratize opportunity, then every single person on the planet should have affordable access to Stanfords world-class education online. The rise of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) and online resources are an indication of the future of education. Its a future in which ambitious students have the opportunity to educate themselves. At the forefront of technology, educational institutions, including Stanford, are starting to decentralize the model through online course material.Meanwhile, Silicon Valley may have pioneered the tech boom, but its no longer the only tech hub. Bursts of technological hubs are forming all over the world. In a piece on the H-1B visa cap, I found that the top investors in early stage startups have set up shop in India, China and Israel, three of the largest global tech hubs after Silicon Valley. Realistically, the H-1B visa cap and city infrastructure cant practically support exponential growth in Silicon Valley. The nucleus of innovation will eventually shift, deeming the proximity to Silicon Valley irrelevant.Plus  as some students arent even finishing their degrees  itll be worth re-evaluating if thousands of dollars for a masters in CS at Stanford is really worth the brand name on a resume or access to coffee with top startup founders who happen to reside in Palo Alto. But if Stanfords proximity to Silicon Valley drives its entrepreneurial essence, which helps bolster both the reputation and funding of Stanford, what will happen when the ambitious, startup founders at Stanford start getting their education online?Will Stanford end up disrupting the very unique factor that distinguishes Stanford from any other university on the planet? Or will Stanfords alumni continue to fuel its self-perpetuating cycle of innovation and maintain its reputation as an innovation hub?