Understandingblockchain technology is not for the average person. This is level 10,000 on the nerd scale.Which makes forasizablechallenge if youre astartup trying to build a business based on atechnology most people will struggle to comprehend.Here at TechCrunch Disrupt London 2015 a panel of blockchain experts wasasked to come up with alternative terms to help unpack some of the complexity.Steve Waterhouse, a partner atblockchain and Bitcoin investment firm Pantera Capital, had the most compact and accessiblesuggestion  offering the single word:decentralized.Vitalik Buterin, founder of independent blockchain platform Ethereum, plumped for crypto 2.0. Which probably isnt much less techiethan blockchain, if were keeping count.Austin Hill, co-founder and CEO of Blockstream, which builds sidechains  aka parallel blockchains that are interoperable  initially objected to the entire exercise, dubbing it somewhat marketing games.Which isexactly the point. The complexity of blockchain is going to need some shiny marketing gloss appliedon top of it if mainstream consumers are going to be persuaded to trust their home insurance to a blockchain-based insurance provider, for instance, or their life-savings to a decentralized bank.Hills eventual suggestions were distributed ledger technology and programmable trust infrastructure. So stillpretty denseconcepts there.Although, earlier in the panel, healso described blockchain as a massive decentralized trust machine, which starts to sounda little more approachable.Marketing blockchain to the massesis clearly going to take more than one ten-minute brainstorming session.The general approach to thinking about blockchains is programmable trust infrastructure, said Hill. Because you can really start to program your trust in the rules or the concept and thats one of the key benefits, because you can remove systemic risk.The blockchain acts as a real-time a-priority audit mechanism.And when you start to get into a longer term view, that gets really exciting.The current system of audits  i.e. doing spot checks in the hopesthey will berepresentative of the business financial processes  could be entirely replaced by continuous blockchain traceability, said Hill.So, in theory, youd never have to do anotherautopsy audit in cases where thosespot checks spectacularly failed to pick up on fraud  like an Enron. Because youd be auditing as you go along.Anotherpromising blockchain-powered idea Hillpointed toistransactional insurance for the p2p economy.We see a whole bunch of upstart players across industries. I saw one recently in the insurance industry thats trying to do transactional insurance for the p2p economy, so if youre an Uber driver for two days a week and if youre an Airbnb renter for the weekend how do you get insurance to cover those different parts of your use-case? And theyre looking at creating a blockchain powered insurance marketplace. And thats exciting. Thats an exciting use-case that shows the novelty, he said.Buterin also pointed to promising insurance projects being built on theEthereum network, including one for delayed flights.The interesting thing there is the way that that works technically is there exists a service that cryptographically verifies secure web pages and scrapes data from them and actually pushes that to smart contracts directly, he said. There you go, theres a decentralized insurance market.Other devgroupsButerin said hes excited about are thoseintegrating blockchain into the Internet of Things  so using the tech to keep track of the ownership or rental of physical objects.You could imagine something like a completely automated system for renting bikes thats just done completely over blockchain crypto-payments. And theoretically just sort of start it up and it works completely autonomously, he said.Theres lots of different things that you can do and for me personally it really is the broad range of things that you can do with it that excites me, he added.