This week Googles Eric Schmidt wason a panel atthe World Economic Forumin Davos, where he suggestedthat the future Internet will be, in one sense, invisible  because it will be embedded into everything we interact with.The Internet will disappear, he predicted (via The Hollywood Reporter).There will be so many IP addressesso many devices, sensors, things that you are wearing, things that you are interacting with that you wont even sense it.It will be part of your presence all the time.Imagine you walk into a room, and the room is dynamic. And with your permission and all of that, you are interacting with the things going on in the room.This isnot an especially outlandish forecast, given the trajectoryof connected devices. Analyst Gartner calculatedthere were some 3.8 billion such smart objects in use last year, and forecast 4.9 billion this  rising to 25 billion in circulation by 2020. (The global human population wasestimated ataround seven billion, at the last count.) In other words the sensornet is here, its just not densely (or evenly) distributedyet.Google already owns Nest, a maker ofconnected devices for the home, such as asmoke alarmand learningthermostat. Google-Nest also owns Dropcam, aWi-Fi security camera maker. Mountain View is clearlymaking a bid tobe the nexusof the connected home  which, along with the connected car (of courseGoogle is also building driverless, Internet-tethered cars),is the early locusfor the sensornet. See also:wearables (connected people), and the factsmartphones are gaining additional embedded sensors, turning our pervasive pocket computers into increasingly sensory mobile data nodes.One of Davos more outlandish (perhaps) predictions for our increasingly connected future came from a group of Harvard professorswho apparentlysketched a scenariowhere mosquito sized-robots buzz around stealing samples of ourDNA, as reported byMail Online.Privacy as we knew it in the past is no longer feasible, computer science professor Margo Seltzer is quoted as saying. How we conventionally think of privacy is dead.What Seltzerwasactuallyarguing is that it needs no sneaky, DNA-sealing robo-mosquitos for connected technologies to violate our privacy. The point is, she later told TechCrunch, we are already at a privacy-eroding tipping point  even with current gen digital technologies. Let alone anything so futuristic as robotic mosquitos.The high order message is that we dont need pervasive sensor net technologies for this to be true. We merely have to use technologies that exist today: credit cards, debit card, the web, roads, highway transceivers, email, social networks, etc. We leave an enormous digital trail, she added.Seltzerwas also not in fact arguing for giving up on privacy  even if the Mails article reads that way. But rather for the importance of regulating data and data usage, rather than trying to outlaw particular technologies.Technology is neither good nor bad, it is a tool, she said. However, hammers are tools too. They are wonderful for pounding in nails. That doesnt mean that someone cant pick up a hammer and use it to commit murder. We have laws that say you shouldnt murder; we dont specialize the laws to call out hammers. Similarly, the laws surrounding privacy need to be laws about data and usage, not about the technology.Whatespecially stands out to me from Schmidts commentsat Davos is hisafterthought caveat that this invisible, reactive, all-pervasive future sensornet will be pulling its invisible stringswith your permission.Perhaps he was paying lip-service tothe warning ofthe FTCs Chairwoman, Edith Ramirez, at CES earlier this monththat building connected objects  the long discussed Internet of Things  demandsa new responsibility frombusinesses and startups to bake security and privacy protections into their products right from the get go.[The Internet of Things]has the potential to provideenormous benefits for consumers, but it also has significant privacy and security implications, she warned.Connected devices that provide increased convenience and improve health services are alsocollecting, transmitting, storing, and often sharing vast amounts of consumer data, some of ithighly personal, thereby creating a number of privacy risks.Ramirez said that without businesses adopting security by design; engaging in data minimization rather than logging everything they can; and being transparent about thedata theyare collecting  and who else they want toshare it with  by providing notifications andopt outs to users; then the risks to usersprivacy and security are enormous.The problem with those well-meaning words from a consumer watchdog organizationis thatwe are already struggling to achieve such rigorous privacystandards on thecurrent Internet  let alone on a distributed sensornet where theres no single, controllableentry point into our lives. The Internet and the mobile Internet can still be switched off, in extremis, by the user turning off their router and/or powering their phone down (and putting it in the fridge if youre really paranoid, post-Snowden).But once a distributed sensornet has achieveda certain penetration tipping point, into the objects with which we humans are surrounded, well then the sheer number of devices involved isgoing to take away our ability to trivially pull the plug. Unless some kind of regulatory layer is also erectedto provide a framework for usage that works in the interests ofprivacy and consumer control.Without such consumer-oriented controlsembedded into this embedded Internet, theuser effectively loses the abilityto take themselves offline, given that the most basic level of computingcontrol  the on/off switch  is being subducted beneaththe grand, over-archingutility of an all-seeing, always on sensornet. (Battery life constraints, in this context, might be viewed as a privacy safeguard, although low power connectivitytechnologies, such as Bluetooth Low Energy, work to circumvent that limit.)In parallel, a well-distributedInternet of Thingslikely demands greater levels of device automation and autonomy, given the inexorable gains in complexity generatedby a dense network of networked objects. And because of the sheer number of connected devices. And more automation again risks reducinguser control.Connectedobjects will be gathering environmental intelligence, talking to each other and talking tothe cloud. Such acomplex, interwoven web of real-time communications might well generate unique utility  as Schmidt evidently believes. But it also pulls inincreasedprivacy concerns, given how many more data points are beingconnected and how all those puzzle pieces mightslot together to form an ever more comprehensive, real-time representationof the actions and intentions of the peoplemoving throughthisweb.Earlier generation digital technologies like email were not engineered with far-sighted privacy protections in mind. Which is why they have been open to abuse  to being co-opted as part of a military industrial surveillance complex, as the Snowden revelations have shown, offering ahoneypot of metadata for government intelligence agencies to suck up. Imagine what kind of surveillance opportunities are opened up by an invisible Internet  which is both everywhere but also perceptually nowhere, encouraging users to submit to its data-mining embrace without objection. After all how can you resistwhat you cant really see or properly control?All the debate about security services getting access to encrypted apps is a smokescreen. #IoT means they'll be able monitor you anyway Dean Bubley (@disruptivedean) January 14, 2015That is exactly the Internet that Schmidt wants to build, from his position atopGoogles ad sales empire. The more intelligence on web users Googlecan harvest, the more data it can package up and sell to companieswho want to sell you stuff. Which, for all Googles primary-colored, doodle-festoonedbranding, is the steely core of its business. Mountain Viewhas long talked about wanting search to become predictive. Why? Because marketingbecomesa perfectmoney-pipe if corporates can channel and influence your real-time intentions. Thats the Google end game.Learning about human intentionfrom the stuff peopletype into search engines is laughably crude compared to how much can be inferred from a sensornet that joins up myriad, real-time data-dots and applies machine learning data-miningalgorithms dynamically. Moredotsare already being joined by Google, across multiple web products and its mobile platform Android  which brings it a rich location layer. Doing even more and deeper data mining is a natural evolution of its business model. (Related: Googleacquired AI firmDeep Mind last year  a maker of general-purpose learning algorithms.)The corereality of the Internet of Things is that a distributed network of connected objects couldbe deliberatelyengineered tocatch us in its web  triangulating our comings and goings as we brush past its myriad nodes. Themore connected objects surround us, the more data points wink into existenceto be leveraged by the Googles of the digital worldto improve the accuracy and texture of their understanding ofour intentions, whether we like it or not.Sowhile the future Internet may appear to fade into the background, as Schmidt suggests, that mightjust signify a correspondinglyvast depth ofactivity going on in the background. All the processing power requiredto knit togetherso manyconnections and weave a concealed map of who we are and what we do.The risk here, clearly, is that our privacy is unpicked entirely.That anembedded everywhere Internet becomes a highly efficient, hugely invasive machine analyzing us at every turn in orderto package up every aspect of our existence asa marketingopportunity. Thats one possible future for the sensornet.But it seems to me that thatdefeatist argumentis also part of the spinning which vested interestslike Google, whose business models stand to benefit massively, engage in when they discuss the digital future that they are trying toshape. Technology is a tool. Diverseapplications are possible. And just because technology makes somethingpossible does not also mean it isinevitable.AsSeltzer says, we need to be thinking about how we want the data to flow or not flow, rather than throwing our hands up in horror or defeat. What is also clearly necessary  indeed, I would argue, is imperative  is joined up thinking from regulators to comprehend the scope of theprivacy risks posed by increasingly dense networks of networked objects, and how theaccumulation ofdata-points can collectively erode consumer privacy. Aclear-sighted strategyfor ensuring end userscan comprehend and controlthe processing of theirpersonal data is paramount.Without that, the risk for startup businesses playing in this space isthat the rise of more and moreconnected deviceswill be mirrored by a parallel rise in human mistrust of increasinglyinvasive products and services.In the hyper personal realm of the Internet of Things, user trust is paramount. Sobuilding a framework to regulate the data flows of connected devicesnow, while the sensornet isstill in its infancy, is imperativefor everyone involved.In the offline world we have cars and roads. We also have speed limits  for a reason. The key imperative for regulators now, as we are propelledtowards a more densely-packed universe of connected devices, is coming up with the sensornets speed limits. And fast.