Editors Note: Noah Nelson reports on virtual reality forTurnstyleNews.com, a tech culture site fromYouth Radio.After two years of hype from the tech press about the return of virtual reality, were waking up to the hard reality of a content gap. Theskepticismstems from the observation thatwhile VR is neat-o, theres not that much you can actuallydowith it at the moment.This isa bit unfair to the virtual reality pioneers.There wasnt this much press attention back in the homebrew days of personal computing, which is a bit closer to whats really going on in VR. Then again, there probably wasnt this much money being thrown at homebrew PCs by Hollywood.That Oculus VR held its first developers conference steps away from where the Academy Awards take place was no accident.There are two big streams of content being developed for VR: games and whats being called cinematic VR. Nine virtual reality experiences wereon display at this monthsSundance Film Festival.The pieces include documentaries, a full-body flight simulation, and a 360-degree Kaiju (giant monster) attack. That says a lot about the diversity of cinematic VR, and the excitement that has been generated by the new medium in filmmaking circles.The biggest disruption thats going to come about because of VR isnt a matter of distribution or monetization: its in how performances are presented, and the ways that actors, musicians, and others are going to have to change the way they approach their craft.Those who want to make content for VR that involves actorsbe it cinema or game narrativeswould be wise to pay attention to the immersive theater movement that has London as its capital and New York City as its chief colony. A lot can be learned from the way that the British group Punchdrunk stagesSleep No More, an immersive retelling ofMacbeth.The play is deconstructed and then reconstituted as a video-game like narrative that runs on a loop.Instead of being stuck in a chair, the audiencegets to walk around various sets at will, in much the same way that VR users control what they experience.This creates interesting staging puzzles for the production staff  how do you manage attention when you dont know what frame your audience is looking through?This is the problem that anyone who is creating VR content faces: your audience could be staring at a cat while your protagonist is agonizing over a moral quandary.There are two big tricks that Punchdrunk uses to manage attention can be adapted to VR.The first is the approach to sound design: a score sets the mood in every room ofSleep No MoresMcKittrick Hotel. After a while, its possible to navigate to points of interest just by reading the music in a room. A dead space, for example, features the sound of a needle circling the last groove of a record over and over. Its a subtle cue, but it lets you know its time to move on.The second is using the attention of the actors to manage the attention of the audience. In one big scene focus shifts seamlessly from a half-dozen characters who interact with Lady Macbeth onto her, and from her to Doomed Scot himself once she catches sight of him. Its an amazing entrance made all the more so by the fact that a given audience member could be almost anywhere in a space with a mezzanine,yet still get the full impact of the moment.What makes it work is a kind of contagion theory. If the person you were watching gives charged attention to someone else, that someone else then becomes the focus.In the same way thattimeis the primary attribute that a film director plays with,attentionis the attribute that VR producers must mold and shape.The core lesson for VR content creators is to start thinking in terms of what works in physical space, and not just the flat screens that a century of media production has become designed to accommodate. Think of it as theaters revenge on the silver screen. An opportunity to bring some of the old magic back, thanks to new tech.