A lot of the conversation aboutdiversity in tech revolves mostly around the lack of women and minorities. But diversity is much more complex than that.Its not just about increasing the number of women in tech. Nor is it just about increasing the number of blacks and other racial minorities at tech companies.Its also about age, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation and preferences, marital status, physical and mental disabilities, veteran status, socio-economic status, religion and even height and weight. And many of those groups fall into protected classes, which means its illegal to discriminate against them.In short, a diverse workforce encompasses a wide variety of people. So why is it that so many tech companies seem to only focuson women and minorities in their reports? Its definitely a start, but it should not be the end goal of diversification.Facebookslatest diversity reportsays, Its vital for us to have a broad range of perspectives, including people of different genders, races, ages, sexual orientations, characteristics and points of view.But, the report only showsnumbers around the companys gender and ethnic makeup.The reported numbers are abysmal in terms of diversity, but most of you probably know that by now. In case you dont, here are the two big ones: Facebooks workforce is 55 percent white and 68 percent male.Over at Google, another tech company that only reports data around gender and ethnicity, the workforce is70 percent male and 60 percent white.The type of data tech companies report around diversity needs to change, and people are finally starting to talk about it publicly.Thanks to #RealDiversityNumbers, a hashtag started by Slack engineer Erica Joy Baker, more people arediscussing theaspects of diversity that some tech companies seem to ignore. [H/T to USA TODAYs Jessica Guynn.]#RealDiversityNumbers How many Autistic employees have left because your trendy open plan office you're so proud of is a sensory nightmare? Erika Sorensen (@eiridescent) July 21, 2015Are ADHD and Autism accommodated in your company? Are depression and anxiety acknowledged? #RealDiversityNumbers Aria Ehren (@litui) July 21, 2015So,as tech companies tryto increase diversity, they need tounderstand that addressing the lack of diversity issues is more complex than simply increasing the number of women and minorities. A truly diverse company would have employees from all types of socio-economic backgrounds, gender identities and ethnicities. And then some.