Mobile World Congress, the biggest tradeshow specifically focused on mobile, kicks off in just overa weeks time in Barcelona so heres a quick rundown of some of the big hardware-focused announcements wereexpecting to land during the best part of a week of fully mobile-focused newsSamsungThe big reveal for Samsung will be shiny new additions to its Galaxy flagship smartphone line-up  with a new S7 and S7 Edge (its curved-edge screen variant) expected. Leaks suggest the new flagships will have pressure sensitive screens a la Apples 3DTouch addition plus faster charging via a new USB Type-C port, camera enhancements and beefier chipset hardware. Its possible the companymight also have a rethink on last years (unpopular) decision to remove the microSD card slot from its flagship. Android fans will surely hope so.In addition, the teaser invite to Samsungspre-MWC press conference places plenty of emphasis on VR. So were expecting some substantial news around its Gear VR platform too, likely linked to the new flagships so perhaps some new VR capabilities baked into the new flagship phone hardware to give buyers an incentive to pick up not one but two new bits of Samsung kit this year. 2016 is the year of the great VR reboot so Samsung will be aiming to capitalize on the hype. And while full-fat gaming VR headsets such asthe forthcoming Oculus Rift are going to be too expensive to be mass market, SamsungsGear VR platform offers a mid-priced option that repurposes existing smartphone hardware to deliver a degree of digital immersion  letting people dip their toes in the VR waters without upending their piggybank to do so.LGSouth Koreas LG has had to play second fiddle to Samsung for years but that doesnt mean its not going big on MWC announcements. The company will be unboxing its latest flagship, the LG G5, at an event on Sunday afternoon  admittedly a few hours before Samsungs big reveal so that theLG G5can have its own moment in the limelight.We already know theG5 will include a touch-enabled case  thanks to LG PRing this tidbit already. The casewill let users take calls, check the time/date and notifications without having to flip itopen to get to the screen, thanks to the phone having an always on display. The case is reminiscent of HTCs Dot View case, released with its flagship HTC One M8 smartphone back in spring 2014. As they say, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.What else do we know about the LG G5? Rumors suggest a metal unibody design, which would be a step up from LGs typical plastic design; a fingerprint scanner (and possibly iris scanning tech); and dual camera lenses on the rear, which would be another inspired by HTC moment.HTCUnlike in MWCspast were not expecting much in the way of new flagship smartphone hardware from Taiwans HTC, which is not holding a fully fledged press event at this years show. Given how much the company has struggled to turn its phone fortunes around in recent years this is not a big surprise. Last month CEO Cher Wang even said that VR is now more important for the company than phones. So HTCs MWC announcements are going to be focusedon its forthcoming Vive VR headset, which its building in partnership with games developerValve.We already know the Vive headset is due to ship from April, with pre-orders starting later this month,but were expecting the company to take time at MWC flesh out a fewmore details about what will be in the Vive box and specifically disclose a verykey bit of intel: the price.HuaweiChinas Huawei may not have the brand glamour of Samsung but its been making some steady marketshare gains in recent times, according to analysts. At MWC the company has a press event scheduled for the Sunday afternoon where it says it will beunveiling a brand new Huawei device that will meet the demands of the next generation of mobile innovation. Its possible this will be a new flagship smartphone  aka the Huawei P9, successor to last years P8. The company also has a line of mid-tier devices, and makes smartwatches too. So plenty of hardware options here.NokiaAh who doesnt love a wildcard. In years past the Nokia press conference was a staple of the pre-MWC hardware press conference circuit, given the company was the foremost force in mobile for multiple years. Butsince Microsoft acquired Nokias mobile making division normal service has been disrupted. However, from this year, Nokia regains the ability to stick its own brand name on smartphones again  so its possible we could get a hardware-related announcement at itsMWC presser again this year.Or it could unveil a new 5G basestation (or similar)  given networks is a core division of the remaining company. Nokiahas already announcedits launching a network security management center for operators at the show this year, for example.Albeitlast summerNokias CEO Rajeev Suri confirmed the companysintention to design and license handsets in 2016  assuming it can find the rightpartners to powera return to the phone market. And ithas already worked with Foxconn to put out an Android tablet (the N1), which it was showing off at MWC last year. So well soon find outwhether its expanded that strategy to smartphones now too. If it has, its really taking the bull by the horns by directly clashing with Samsungs Sunday evening press event timing. So itwill either be a very bullish return to smartphones for the former world number one mobile maker. Or a nothing to see here networks-related presser Either way, TC will be on the ground in Barcelona to find out.XiaomiChinas smartphone upstart Xiaomi will be holding a press preview ofits forthcomingMi 5 flagship smartphone at MWC on the Wednesday, on the same day as it holds a launch event in Beijing. Its not being coy about this, with itsinvite to the event explicitly stating the Mi 5 nameWhat else do we know about the Mi 5? Xiaomi global VP Hugo Barra confirmed last month in a tweet that it will have a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor.Hes also tweeted a sneak peek at the homescreen  which includes what looks like support for dual SIM with two signal bars up top, plus NFC support:Here's a sneak peek of my #Mi5 home screen today. Spot anything new? pic.twitter.com/KhexzGFeTP Hugo Barra (@hbarra) February 2, 2016SonyAs with many an Android OEM Sony has had a pretty tough time standing out in the crowded smartphone space. So while it will be holding a press conference at MWC its more of a low key affair, scheduled for the Monday morning likelast year (when it had a tablet with a bluetooth keyboard and a new mid-range handset to show off). Expectations for Sonys 2016 MWC announcements are a grab bag of guesses at this point. Perhaps some new Xperia tablets. Or an update to its wearables line. A seriously cutting edge flagship Sony smartphone isfar less likely at this point.MicrosoftWere not expecting any major news from Redmond at this years show given its all but retrenching from smartphones, withcontinued job cuts to its mobile making division under CEO Satya Nadella. In its latest earning report, Microsoft noted itsold just 4.5 million Windows Phone in its Q2, down from 10.5 million in the year before quarter, with phone based revenue declining 49 per cent in constant currency Ouch. So expecta very low key presence from Microsoft this year at the worlds biggest mobile show.BlackBerryAnother former mobile giant thats been cut to ribbons by the dominanceof Android is BlackBerry. The company formerly known as RIMreleased its first Android powered smartphone, the Priv, last fall. A touchscreen slider that took a cake-and-eat it approach to smartphone input options. There are rumors it has a non-slider follow up in the works; i.e.a full Qwerty-plus-touchscreen handset, code-named Vienna. So it will be interesting to see whether the company takes the plunge and launches a second Android device at MWC this year. The companyis not holding an official press conference which suggests its not going to be making any flagship hardware launches. Which perhaps alsosuggest the Priv has not been selling well enough to convince CEO John Chen that BlackBerry needsto stay in the hardware making business. Time will tell on that one.