
Benjamin Brandall is a content crafter for Process Street.  Im writing this from a slightly saddened perspective, revisiting my favorite SNES RPGs and realizing something:Ive been spoiled by modern UX design.The sentiment is pretty universal. Hugon on the Quarter to Three forumwrites:When I think console RPG I think pages of fairly inscrutable character info and bad navigation. You cry tears of joy if you can just get a basic item comparison.Thanks, good UX.In the past, I expected everything to be a bit rubbish. Sitting in the back of my dads car, smashing the Nokia keypad trying not to let the snake eat its own tail I wasnt thinking about it any deeper than hehe, wow or ahhhReplaying the old classics wasnt all bad, though. As well as the experiences that no one would be caught dead designing, there were a few things I noticed that have carried over into highly praised apps.This post is about the evolution of UXalthough we know it now as a way tokeep users sticking aroundthis is from a time period when it wasnt so much of a big deal.I got to play a lot of games, record the screen and see UX and video games in a new light. Its about the good and bad parts of 1990sJapanesevideo games, and what we should (and shouldnt) learn from them today.In the first 10 minutes ofFinal Fantasy III, you come across a small, glowing light something thatll entice any gamer in search of loot. What you get instead is a lesson not in the instruction booklet that nobody would bother to read, but baked into the gameplay:Ive looked before at how Microsofthid user onboarding lessonsinside Minesweeper and tricked users into adapting to a GUI, and it seems this is an equally ancient example.InFinal Fantasy III, however, its exciting because its exactly like a tactic used recently by Slack (and plenty of other SaaS apps):And,because Slacks user onboarding process has since changed, heres a .gif of the same idea in action inProcess Street:Its thesame idea. A transitory, floating point of interest  sparkles on a cave floor. A tiny piece of information hidden in the UI to help users learn as they go, instead of having to break out the biblically oversized user manual.The death of the instruction manual and move toward learning by doing is common in all kinds ofonboarding, much as relying on someone to get from 0-60 on their own isnt necessary or expected when there are other ways of teaching.In Nick Babichsarticle on microinteractions, he says:The best products do two things well: features and details. Features are what draw people to your product. Details are what keep them there. And details are what actually make our app stand out from our competition.One example of a delightful microinteraction is the Twitter heart. It used to be a case of clicking the star and it turning from gray to yellow; now, as we all know, this happens:There are some pretty goodarguments againstspending design time on microinteractions, but in video games, its part of the immersive experience.Chrono Triggeris one of the few SNES RPGs Ive played where poking around mundane rooms pays off. In the very first room, when your mum wakes you up, its possible to open and close the curtains.In a genre where the game is mostly story-driven and the actual mechanics seem to be an afterthought, this is pretty awesome. As you can see, I had to do a quintuple take:You cant appreciate the wonders of modern menu navigation if youve not been through some of the more poorly designed UIs from the 1990s.Now, I know its not the primary concern of RPGs (and, in fact, something theyre most often criticized for anyway), but the first menu system fromBreath of Firejust doesnt make sense. Bearing in mind this menu is presented before the game has ever started, check this out:The key issues:Itd be far more helpful not to force this before gameplay, and to leave it as a preferences menu somewhere in-game.Its unfair to compare menus from 1990s games to modern SaaS products, but thankfully, I didnt have to. Heres a much better menu fromSuper Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, a game known for its elegant design:It even comes with a little onboarding primer, unlike the menu inBreath of Fire,which surfaced before I even saw what the game looked like.Thanks to social media, smarter design and the realization that no one wants a blank profile picture or the need to spend time filling in their details, information like thumbnail and full name is often pulled in automatically by apps when you sign up. Take Medium, for example:LikeSamuel Hullickpoints out in his teardown ofPeachs user onboarding flow, thats much better than the default silhouette and [username not entered].Heres a pre-cursor to that approach fromChrono Trigger, kindly filling in your default name, with the cursor ready to overwrite left-to-right if you want to choose another name:This reduces friction at the most vital moment first use.At a high level, a user interface consists of two groups of things: things with which you can interact and things with which you cant.Badly designed interfaces make it difficult to decide straight away whether an element is interactive, whether its for displaying data or just for decoration.With SNES games, its sometimes a matter of trial and error to find which parts of the screen you can interact with, but unlike apps with freeform (mouse/touchscreen) controls, the number of options is limited to wherever you can move the cursor with the arrow keys. If you cant move your cursor there, you cant interact with it.That leads to confusing interfaces like the one I looked at earlier fromBreath of Fire how was I supposed to know theres an input field there?In the same wayFinal Fantasy IIIshows you a part of the environment is interactive, there are parallels in modern apps.Check outPeach(left) andBuffer(right) for a contrast of how interactive UI elements are displayed:With touch/mouse-controlled UIs, the user could theoretically click anywhere. The awkwardBreath of Firemenu shows that interactions can be misleading, even when there are limited places to click. Peachs enticing button looks tappable, but it gives you an error message; Buffer has the balance right by showing buttons you cant interact with by keeping them gray.Every classicFinal Fantasygame follows the same structure. Like a Shakespeare play, youre thrown right into the middle of a story, with only the tone of the start screen for context  like, Whats all this lightning?The story unfolds over the course of a painfully slow 5-10 minute cut scene of sprites shuffling around, and references to an array of names and places you have no idea about.But thats what fantasy stories are, right?They dont start at the beginning of time, and even if they follow the dumbed-down This is me, Im from a town called X format, youre going to be thrown into a universe you never previously knew existed. (In an earlier article I addressed howastonishing your userisnt the best idea.)Its the same deal when you startwith a new app. Part of theuser onboarding processis reducing that initial overwhelm factor.Quartzdoes a good job at this by situating the app in a familiar environment  texting with a talkative AI.Setting aside some obvious clunkers likeDragon Age 6andBreath of Fire, it seems like theuser experience of SaaS appshave been informed by the past. Some, likeDuolingoandHabitica, take direct inspiration from old-school RPGs.While SNES technology limited the complexity and elegance of the games it ran, its only clumsy in retrospect because weve been spoiled by silk-smooth interfaces and delight.After all, until now I never complained aboutFinal Fantasys UI  I sat down, shut up and played it until 4 am.