Editors note:Steve Caldwell is co-founder and CEO of the cross-platform wearable analytics and tools company, Strap.At CES this year,we saw everything from stickers that tracked heart rates on babies to virtual reality headsets that didnt make you throw up. Talk of the Apple Watch took a backseat, but wearables were a hot topic in sunny Las Vegas. Back in the drizzly reality of winter in Cincinnati, were contemplating how wearables will seriously make the leap in 2015.Wearable devices are spawning like crazy right now, and the valuable sensors inside of them are improving. Intels Curie module promises to make wearable devices more powerful. The industry is building the right hardware for something amazing. But what is that something amazing?How will wearable devices truly change the way we live? In exchange for strapping on the next latest and greatest gadget, wearables need to solve daily problems for people in a way our smartphones cant. Were starting to see applications think outside of the phone in a couple of ways, and with giants like Facebook and Twitter clamoring to get their apps finished before a spring launch of the Apple Watch, were guaranteed to see some exciting applications.Christopher Mims from WSJ thinks that push notifications will be the reason the Apple Watch takes off and will open up an augmented reality where wearables know where we are, who we are, how were feeling (potentially) and serve us up the right timely notification. This video from Android Wear shows great use cases for wearables like receiving directions and dictating texts. Weve seen multiple examples that being hands free is the ultimate use case for wearables; therefore, putting them into the hands of deskless workers makes the most sense.Weve collaborated on enterprise use cases such as monitoring a construction workers health and alerting them and their management if it seems like they might be in danger of falling asleep, so they are taken down before an accident can happen. And that same use case has been applied to drivers who might fall asleep at the wheel: They get a physical tap from their wearable to warn them to pull over before they put themselves in danger.Evernote is a company that weve seen a great wearable application from already that allows users to jump between handhelds and their wearable and continue the Evernote experience, uninterrupted. Pebbles devoted developer community has produced scores of new applications. Were getting there, but the wearable revolution, like a lot of things, is a numbers game. The more applications we build, the closer well get to finding the apps that change the game.Sleep apps are one step of the way there. Apps like James Fowlers Morpheuz take something wearables uniquely do  monitor our sleeping patterns  and do something useful with it: Wake us up when were in our lightest stage of sleep so we wake up feeling rested. We need to take the sensors on wearables, take the data, take whats unique to a wearable, and make it indispensable to users. Were close. We need the right application to get us all the way there.One place the killer app of 2015 could emerge from is the collegiate hackathon. There are dozens of them coming up, and were anticipating the desire to build apps on wearable platforms to skyrocket this year. Weve seen pretty creative concepts from young kids already, like the two teens in the UK who came up with the idea for KipstR (a wearable that starts recording your TV shows if you fall asleep during the program) as part of Virgin Medias Switched on Futures initiative.It was amazing to see the creativity in the actual wearables that people were building at CES. This will bethe year we see an application that will prevent these wearables from collecting dust in drawers.