Themany faces of emoji just gained afew more  thanks to a web tool put together by 17-year-old developer Giacomo Randazzowhich randomly remixes standard yellow-faced emoticonsto stir up some new expressions.Like thisOr thisOrthis  which totally sums up that something niceis happeningBarely a day goes by without the TC inbox being pitched a projectinvolving emoji. Emoji fatigue is not a phrase we ever hear. Au contraire. Only this week the textPlus messagingapp pitched a user survey with the subject line: Emojis are just as popular as you thought, reporting thatusage of emoji has risen dramatically in the past two years, and claiming 97 per cent of poll respondents aged 13- to 24-years-old useemoji regularly.Which just makes you wonder about the emoji-rationing three per cent Especially when you consider amajority of respondents to the same survey reported usingemojis All the time or Most of the Time when texting. Truly were an expressive lot when it comes to digital comms.Randazzo, who lives nearVerona in Italy, tells TechCrunch he came up with the idea for Randemojinator after coming across aPokmon fusion generator website suggesting that the underlying kawaii additivethat powersthe Pokmon franchise isalso hard at work keepingemoji sticky.I thought why not to make the same thing but for emojisbecause its trending on the Internet, says Randazzo, also confirming that he and his friends do indeed send plenty of emoji themselves. I started editing emojis by hand, cutting out all the elements needed to create the emojis. I made it mostly for fun, but also to teach the other creator of the website, Andrea Zaninelli, how to code.I dont plan on developing it any further right now, unless I get lots of traffic and requests. I plan though on putting advertising on it , because I need some money. It didnt take much to code maybe three or four days. Setting up the servers and finding the domain names are the things that took longer, it took almost a month in total, he adds.Randazzo says hes been coding since he was 11-years-old getting into programingoriginally via Scratch, afterhis father introduced him to thegraphical programming language thats designed as a way to get kids intocoding. And then following that up by reading and learning himself.As well as Randemojinator, he also has a game an appon the Google Play Store, and hascreated a couple of websites for friends.I always had a passion for technology.Last year I studied abroad and graduated from Grandview Highschool in Missouri. This coming year Ill have to graduate again from my Italian highschool and then I plan on going to college.I can say that the past year was my big life-changing event: while I was at school I read a lot about code and startups and I got really passioned about it. After Ill get out of college I plan on starting up my own company, he says.As well as generating random emoji, Randemojinator apparently letsusers tweak their franken-emoji by alternating the position parameters in the URL  to get just the right amount of weird. Although I couldnt get this to behave.Still, a fresh-faced emoji mash-up is ever just a click away.And on that note, if emoji fatigue does everoccur, I wager itll look a little bit like this