
Terence Fung is the chief strategy officer at Storm8.Silicon Valley is experiencing an extended boom that has only recently shown signs of fatigue.While the local real estate/rental markets remain on fire, given an increasingly restrained funding environment, devaluations for once-hot startups, notable recent layoffs at high-profile tech companies and a challenging IPO market, many observers portend an ominous environment ripe for abustsimilar to the early 2000s.Yes, there are many similarities between now and the dot-comboom. There are, however,key differences that will enable Silicon Valley to continue driving forward, no matter the headwinds.Similar to the dot-com era, an abundance of capital is chasing a much smaller pool of quality companies.The latest hot trends see dozens of companies created and chasing the same market opportunity. Theres been unabashed optimism and increasingly aggressive deal terms and valuations for startups. Many investors have been willing to overlook traditional metrics and invent new ones, even for mature startups. Theres fierce competition to attract talent with companies driven to one-upmanship on lavish compensation and perks. Ultimately, many companies are burning cash way too fast.The market to reach consumers today is significantly simpler  companies and consumers are benefitting from the infrastructure investments from the lasttechboom. Today, much of the world enjoys reliable, faster and cheaper internet, and more than 2 billion people own smartphones, powered largely by Apple- and Android-related app stores. As a result, many companies are able to focus on delivering value straight to the customer by leveraging established infrastructure. In fact,six out of the top 10 so-called unicornsare consumer  versus enterprise  companies.While its much less expensive to get most startups off the ground today, the bar for both private and tech funding is higher. Companies must rely on private funding for longer periods of time; Q1 2016 saw zero tech IPOs, something the market hasntseen since 2009. Companies that arent cash-flow positive and that cantsecure funding (or an acquirer) will be forced to shut down.Private investors/high-net individuals will largely be the big losers this time around, versus before whensuchcompanies successfully IPOd and mom n pop investors lost big.Scaled industry leaders willnot remain unscathed, but will continue to profitably grow after the dust settles. And when previously white-hot startups face cost cutting and layoffs, the market leaders will be ready to absorb talent.If and when thebusthits Silicon Valley, its sure to hurt  jobs will be lost and many dreams will remain unfulfilled. But todays Silicon Valley is much more fundamentally strong and resilient than the dot-com era. The very essence of Silicon Valley is about embracing change and reinventing itself.Collectively, we will take any hits in stride and improve upon our experiences and offerings to deliver something even better than before. Weve learned fromexperience and are looking for sustainable businesses that provide real value  even if that means forgoing the ping pong table.