
Benjamin Brandall is a content crafter for Process Street.  Ive spent the past month in a daze, trying to make sense of my own tasks and responsibilities while forcing myself to adhere to a system I came up with that simply doesnt work.You can never anticipate how your perfectly designed task-management system can fail. Its our own nature were so sure of ourselves that makes us think our idea will be the magic trick that solves all our problems.For me, this idea came around a month ago, on a rainy street in a cafe mostly filled with elderly ladies, looking at me disapprovingly while I did nothing but scroll on my phone for two hours solid. Frustrated with the way I organize my reminders, I was looking for a way to solve the problem that didnt involve using 50 different apps.Instead, I ended up creating systems that would bring tears of laughter to the eyes of anyone who knew the first thing about productivity.When I got home to my laptop, I wrote an awful 2,000-word article about it. Thankfully, this isnt that article. It probably wont see the light of day  its too angry and incoherent to share with anyone.After some time to reflect and apply rational thought to the situation, Im here, in the midst of a symphony of push notifications, writing this instead. Im going to talk about my fight against Twitter and my failing productivity, the apps and systems with which Ive tried to keep myself in check and the psychology behind why we build an aversion against getting things done.The way I used to organize my whole working life was with Trello. It seemed ideal, at first. Youve got one card per quantifiable task that moves around the board depending on its status. Its not like I let tasks stack up, but the amount of places from which Trello gets data(using workflow automation software like Zapier) means that its full of cards I dont know how to deal with. Its like layering your office wall with sticky notes and not having a clue which one to pull off and read first.A problem with all productivity apps is that they need upkeep. Apps cant just make you productive by the fact that they exist; you must use them, maintain them and put in effortto get results.Many productivity apps can help you organize your life as a secondary function to their main purpose:Evernote can be turned into a todo list, as well as being the permanent home for all your quick notes, a writing workflow tool or a scrapbook for your receipts.Trello can notify you of upcoming deadlines, and store your tasks, files and communications.Slack can act as a reminder-bot, parsing natural language into concrete reminders at real dates and times.WorkFlowy is a zoomable documentthat is great for taking notes and structuring projects  and it doubles as a task-management system.The problem with this is that unless you go all or nothing with one app, youre scattered between numerous different systems, some with push notifications, some with email summaries, some synced to your calendar, etc.Spending your time maintaining a needlessly complex system instead of doing work that matters is a huge productivity killer,one that Ive been trying (and failing) to fight simply because I use too many apps that dont do enough.We have an aversion to getting told what to do versus getting told were being talked about. The phone buzzes over the other side of the room. I use my laptop to check my emails for a reply from an editor. Nothing. I check Twitter to see if someones approving of my life choices. Nothing. I resolve its some kind of non-essential deadline coming nearer, and, out of defense, dont check it, getting on with whatever Im trying too hard to focus on.Like a lot of other aspects of life, weve been conditioned to only hear what we want to hear. I dont want to know its time to get up, break my concentration and hoover the bloody house; although, paradoxically, Id love my concentration to be broken if it would only inform me of a retweet.In their article The Psychology of Notifications, Ximena Vengochea and Nir Eyal call notifications the Pavlovian bell of the 21st century. For app designers and users alike, this is a double-edged sword. While notifications are exciting and a way to engage users repeatedly, theyre also numbing. When half of your notifications arent relevant and youre waiting for an important reply, it can be like getting phone calls from everyone but the pizza delivery guy.I work remotely with a huge degree of freedom. I have a few set weekly deadlines, but other than that Im free to work in a way any boss with an understanding of how creativity works would allow  of my own accord, writing as and when I feel like it.A research paper published by Florida State University tested students reactions to a simple game against a group that played the same game but had audible notifications distracting them as they went. Even though the participants never acted on the notifications, the test indicated that the notification sounds or vibrations distracted them noticeably, and just as much as a phone call would.When it comes to it, and I have an idea I have to write down, I want to do that and only that. If I was working in an office (something Ive only ever done for three months of my life), then my time I spend with tunnel vision in a text editor would be the time someone doesnt let any calls come into my office. Why, then, do I think its okay to have a chiming phone going off every few minutes?I dont thinkits okay to be bombarded with notifications, Im just lazy. Swiping away every notification that comes in is irritating, but not enough of an involved task to force me to take meaningful action, which is a problem.Just like how I probably dismiss that Java update dialog box several times a week, it becomes a muscle memory reflex to dismiss notifications without consciously registering them.A way to solve this is by prioritizing just two tasks on your list every day, and removing reminders for the rest. In an app that lets you create multiple lists and mark labels or star tasks (such as Trello, Wunderlist or Todoist), you can have your today list and your backlog list to keep only the most important tasks on the top of your mind. From that, you can add reminders for only the tasks that are important and urgent.When I started with Wunderlist, I set myself daily recurring tasks for every little thing I can think of  process reminders, inbox zero, wash the pans. Even now I havent restructured yet because its easier to sit through a stream of ignorable notifications than to sit down and change the system.Theres going to come a point where I ask myself if I really need to process my Evernote inbox or items saved to Pocket twice every week, or whether its something I should do when I actually have the time to do it. Because right now, getting bugged about it regularly by my phone has given me an aversion to it completely.An obvious solution is to cut push notifications out of your life completely. Owen Williams intriguing study into his own psychology of app overload concluded with him deciding to get rid of Twitter on his phone and only check the inferior web-based version.Im not strong enough for that yet. Even though it kills my productivity, Im a sucker for push notifications and will hold onto the silly hope that something interesting just happened to me. As I typed that last sentence, I stopped midway through to check my phone mere seconds away from going into glazed-eyes-Twitter-scrolling mode.