Diversity isthe hot topic in Silicon Valley and the tech industry at large these days. Today atDisrupt SF 2015, TechCrunch former Co-Editor Alexia Tsotsis took the stage to lead a discussion on diversity with Pinterest Engineer Tracy Chou (whogot tech companies to release their diversity data), OneLogin engineer Isis Anchalee (who started the #ILookLikeAnEngineer hashtag),and Joyus Founder and CEOSukhinder Singh Cassidy.But do we really need diversity in tech panels?Last week at Dreamforce, Re/Codes Kara Swisher said that we need to get to a point where diversity panels are no longer necessary. Swisher said that in response to Salesforce CEO Marc Benioffs comment about the importanceand value of panels for women. In a perfectly diverse world, we wouldnt need all-women panels, or panels that focus on diversity. But were just not there yet.I think we need to keep talking about this until senior leadership, demographics, VC firms and the industry actually represents the greater population its drawing from, said Chou.By the look of the state of the diversity at tech giants like Apple, Google and the like, its going to be a while until we can stop talking about diversity.In August, Apple released a new diversity report, showing just slight progress in hiring people who are more diverse than white men.In the last year, 11 percent of Apples hires in the U.S. have been black, 13 percenthave been Hispanic and 19 percenthave been Asian. Worldwide, Apple hired 65 percent more women than it did in the previous year.As youve probably noticed, when tech companiestalk about diversity, it often starts with the lack of women in tech, and then the lack of people of color in tech. Whats problematic is that the conversation around diversity ends up not being inclusive.I think its easiest to start with women because women are 50% of the population so its very obvious when were not at 50/50 that theres an imbalance, Chou said. Its harder to see that for other forms of diversity. Race is the other visible diversity stat that were looking at but even then its hard to know if were representing the overall population demographics.The other thing that makes it easier to tackle gender first is that every man has a mother, Chou said. They also sometimes have wives, sisters or daughters. What puts racial diversity on the back-burner to gender diversity, Chou said, are questions of socioeconomic class. Another thing, Chou said, is that peoples social networks tend to be very racially homogenous.So its easiest to start with gender and then race is the next one because these are the two visible markers, Chou said. Other forms of diversity are important and I think its critical that we dont just define diversity as gender diversity or racial diversity, but those are the things that we should start with. Theyre the most obvious problems we have and theyre also the easiest ones for companies to set targets around.Pinterest is doing just that  putting concrete goals in place to improve diversity.Chou pointed to how Pinterest has been working with consulting startup Paradigm to better understand what problems the company has and how those problems  from sourcing potential candidates to hiring to employee evaluations  can best be addressed.Every company will have its own biases so I think its important for each company to look at its own problems and where the highest leverage points are for them, instead of saying that every company needs to do the same things to fix their problems, Chou said.Outside of tech companies, there are obviously problems in the venture capital world. Earlier this month, former Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers partner Ellen Pao said she would not appeal the gender discriminationlawsuit she filed against the firm three years ago. But this case has surelyimpacted and propelled the conversation around diversity in tech.I think it was an inflection point for sure, Cassidy said. I think regardless of what you think about the case, theres no doubt. Ive heard the phrase unconscious bias more in the last six months than I have in the last 20 years.Although the case didnt turn out the way some had hoped, its definitely been a conversation starter around diversity and inclusion in the tech industry.Once we had the data out there and people recognized that there was a problem that was quantifiable, Eileen gave a story that was there and people relate much more to stories than they do to statistics, Chou said. Ithink just laying it out all there and making it a conversation piece was really important for the industry.