Apple is under pressure from the FBI to backdoor iPhone 5c security. The company is taking a public, principled stance on this, which is in line with its recent public pro-privacy defense of encryption.Yesterday it released a customer statement explaining that it will fight thecourt order,which is asking for some very specific technical assistance in order toenable the FBI to access data on an iPhone 5c usedby one of theSan Bernardino shooters.Specifically the court order asks Apple: to bypass or disable an auto-erase function that wipes iPhone data after a certain number of incorrect attempts to unlock the device; to enable the FBI to attempt to brute force the passcode on the device without having to manually type passcodes into the handsetbut rather by affording them the ability tosubmit attempts via another device connected to the iPhone; and to remove a time-delay between passcode submissions, again to enable the FBI to try to brute force the passcode without having to wait a certain number of milliseconds between each attempt.Apple couches this orderas the government asking it to create a backdoor into its software. And so do plenty of othersWTF! You are hereby ORDERED to design software to allow the FBI to compromise any iOS device. https://t.co/NScLplIZfy Kevin Mitnick (@kevinmitnick) February 17, 2016The government, for its part, is trying to claim its just about one device. Apples counter to that is it ignores the basics of digital security  and also glosses over thesignificance of what the government is asking for.Basically backdoor one iPhone, backdoor them all  and invite all governments, everywhere to do soIf US does it, so will China, Russia, Iran, Venezuela, Cuba.and they won't limit themselves to terror attacks https://t.co/lEpwFY8OCR Alvaro Bedoya (@alvarombedoya) February 17, 2016Or as Apple puts it:The government suggests this tool could only be used once, on one phone. But thats simply not true. Once created, the technique could be used over and over again, on any number of devices. In the physical world, it would be the equivalent of a master key, capable of opening hundreds of millions of locks from restaurants and banks to stores and homes. No reasonable person would find that acceptable.Firstly Apple taking a public stance on this matter is A Very Good Thing because it encouragespublic debate on an issuewhere law enforcement requests have implications forthe general publics data security. It took EdwardSnowdens whistleblowing of the NSA toshinea light onstate surveillance overreach in 2013 andprovide the impetus for politicians to legislate to lay down some freshprivacy red lines.tl;dr public debate about where the line should be drawn to protect citizens digital data from state-powered intrusions has becomea corecomponent of living in a functioning modern democracy.Secondly, there has been a fair amount of discussion already about the technical feasibility of what Apple is being asked to do  with one security company, Trail of Bits, claiming that in its view it would be possible for the company to comply with the FBIs requests for access to a specific iPhone and to lock the customized version of iOS to only work on that specific iPhone.Howeverthat viewpoint flies in the face of the majority opinion of the security industry on backdoors  i.e. that you cannot create a backdoor just for the good guys; any vulnerability intentionally created for a specific purpose risks being found and exploited by bad actors. We see this principle in action everyday with software bugs and the hacks and data leaks enabled by such vulnerabilities. Government mandated vulnerabilities wouldbe no different. Its merelyopening up more fronts for data to be stolen  with the added irony being that its your friendly state security agencies enforcing the public insecurity.The wider point here isthat when youre talking about system design theres no technical red line protecting security. In this example the only red line against enforced backdoors perforating iOS security would appear to beApples principles  and the wider interpretation of the letter of the law by the judiciary.Which brings me to thelegal issue. The FBI has resorted to using a federal statute  the All Writs Act  to try to force Apples hand. This is not the first time the AWA has been used to try to compel technology companies to do the bidding of government agencies. Nor is it the first time Apple has been targeted with such Writs. Which likely explains why Apple was in a positionto publisha very balanced and coherent statement on the matter yesterday. This low levelfederal court route of government agencies seeking totryto perforate iOSsecurity is apparently a pretty well trodden path already.The AWAgives federal courts the authority to issue court orders that are necessary or appropriate in aid of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law. But itdoes not give them the power to violate the Constitution. Nor can they impose an unreasonable burden via Writ.Despite the judge in the San Bernardinocase granting the writ, the judiciary is not universally comfortable with use of ageneral purpose lawfor such a specificpurpose.As the EFF has previously noted, a federal magistrate judge in New York last year questioned the governments authority to use the AWA to try to compel Apple to unlock a locked iPhone in another case.That judges reading ofthe matter isthat a deliberate Congressional failure to legislate either way on enforceddisabling of security/encryption might well be being exploited to enable government agencies to compel tech companies to do their bidding  i.e. without politicians having to win the publiccase formaking a specific law for this.This case falls in the murkier area in which Congress is plainly aware of the lack of statutory authority and has thus far failed either to create or reject it, the New York judge wrote.So the implication is the government isfilling a statutory gap that Congress has either failed to consider or specifically chosen not to confer authority for. Either way, use of AWA for this purpose is not a sustainable position. Callsfor a proper legal mandate  in the form of a law passed by Congress and signed by the President  have started already.Apple also understandably wants some legal clarity here. Last week, itscounsel, Marc J. Zwillinger wrote tothe aforementionedNew York judge asking him to rule on whether itcanbe compelled to assist investigators to break the passcode on its iPhones  arguing that a court ruling on the matter would be more efficient than repeat debates each time the government seeks to compel itto crack thesecurity on an individual device.Apple has also been advised that the government intends to continue to invoke the All Writs Act in this and other districts in an attempt to require Apple to assist in bypassing the security of other Apple devices in the governments possession. To that end, in addition to the potential reasons this matter is not moot that the government identifies, this matter also is not moot because it is capable of repetition, yet evading review, Zwillinger wrote.Resolving this matter in this Court benefits efficiency and judicial economy.If, as Zwillinger writes, the government is intending to systematically invoke the AWA to bypass iOS security in different cases, its rather hard to see how it is also arguing that the San Bernardino case is a special national security exception. Either its this one case or its not. (And indeed, the AWA hasalready been used for a similar purpose in other such cases so )The wider point here is that legal grey areas have, for a very long time, been used as a tactic to enable state surveillance powers outgrowthwithout proper public debate and scrutiny of suchcapabilitycreep. Indeed, actively bypassing democratic debate.Over in the U.K., for example, were seeing freshgovernment attempts to use anobfuscation tactic to try to workaround encryption.Draft state surveillance legislation currently before the U.K. parliament includes a clause that requires comms service providers to remove electronic protection when served with a lawful intercept warrant. The legislationalsostates thatcompanies must take reasonable steps to comply with warrants requiring they hand over data in a legible form  which would appearto implythat end-to-end encryption will end upstanding outside the law.Add to that, according toFT newspapersources, UK intelligence agencies have been informing US tech companies they intend to use exactly this clause to force the companies to decryptencrypted data  and that despite repeat denials by the UK government that it is seeking to ban encryption. So, in other words, the UK government seeksto seize with its right hand what it claims its left hand canttouch.No one would try to deny that modern smartphones contain a truckloadof sensitive personal data, as Apple underlinesin its public statement.And the rise of the Internet of Things is only going to increase the volumeof sensitive personal data at risk of theft. (Indeed,earlier this monththe U.S. director of national intelligence,James Clapper, made this very point  telling aSenate committee that: In the future, intelligence services might use the [IoT] for identification, surveillance, monitoring, location tracking, and targeting for recruitment, or to gain access to networks or user credentials.)Sowith the volume of sensitive data being pulled onlinecontinuing to increase, unimpeachablesecurity ismore  not less  important. Making Apples public defense of the security of its users the only viable position to take here.Because how will any technology companybe able to offer trusted services to consumers if government-mandated backdoors are being forced upon them?The @FBI is creating a world where citizens rely on #Apple to defend their rights, rather than the other way around. https://t.co/vdjB6CuB7k Edward Snowden (@Snowden) February 17, 2016This is the most important tech case in a decade. Silence means @google picked a side, but it's not the public's.  https://t.co/mi5irJcr25 Edward Snowden (@Snowden) February 17, 2016Oh and one more thing: when Donald Trump disagrees with youits patently obvious who standson the right side of history.