The Wikimedia Foundation, the not-for-profit behind the free online encyclopedia Wikipedia, has announced its suing the U.S. National SecurityAgency and Department of Justice over the large-scale search and seizure of internet communications  aka the dragnet digitalsurveillance programs detailed in documents released by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.Wikimedia says its bringing the lawsuit to protect its users around the world, noting that the 2008 U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Amendments Act (FAA) has been used to authorize so called upstream surveillance of online communications with the ostensible aim of capturing foreign intelligence information.However itargues the vast scope of NSA dragnets is such that captured communications fall far outside this remit  with the intelligence agencies tapping into Internet infrastructure (such as high capacity cables, routers and switches directly) and suckingup data not connected to a specific intelligence target, andeven gathering entirely domestic comms.This includes communications by our users and staff, Wikimediaasserts  characterizingthis overreach asa threat to its mission to increase access to the sum total of human knowledge, as well as a violation of fundamental U.S. constitutional rights.Itsbringing the lawsuit along with eight otherorganizations, including The National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International USA. The group isbeing represented by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU).In a statement on its website, the ACLU adds: Upstream surveillance flips the Constitution on its head. It allows the government to search everything first and ask questions later, making us all less free in the process. Our suit aims to stop this kind of surveillance.Thegroup intends toargue that the NSAs current practices far exceedthe already broad authority granted by the U.S. Congress through the FAA, and violates free speech and association protections enshrined in the U.S. First Amendment, and also trample overFourth Amendment rights which protect against unreasonable search and seizure.Wikimedia notes:The NSA has interpreted the FAA as offering free rein to define threats, identifytargets, and monitor people, platforms, and infrastructure with little regard for probable cause or proportionality. We believe that the NSAs current practices far exceed the already broad authority granted by the U.S. Congress through the FAA. Furthermore, we believe that these practices violate the U.S. Constitutions First Amendment, which protects freedom of speech and association, and the Fourth Amendment, which protects against unreasonable search and seizure.The suit will also challenge the NSAs practices and the limited judicial review of those practices on the grounds that they violate Article III of the U.S. constitution. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) hears issues related to surveillance, however Wikimedia argues that FISCs role is to resolve casesor controversies not to issue advisory opinions or interpret theoretical situations.It argues:In the context of upstream surveillance, FISC proceedings are not cases. There are no opposing parties and no actual controversy at stake. FISC merely reviews the legality of the governments proposed procedures  the kind of advisory opinion that Article III was intended to restrict.By tapping the backbone of the internet, the NSA is straining the backbone of democracy, addedLila Tretikov, executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, in a statement. Wikipedia is founded on the freedoms of expression, inquiry, and information. By violating our users privacy, the NSA is threatening the intellectual freedom that is central to peoples ability to create and understand knowledge.Wikimedia notes that the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed a previous challenge to the FAA back in 2013, brought by Amnesty, on the grounds that the parties involved lacked standing  meaningthey werent able to show they had suffered any harm. However in thiscase, Wikimedia isarguing it can establish standing  given thata slide from a classified NSA presentation makes explicit reference to Wikipedia.Ergo the governmentspecifically targeted Wikipedia and its users. And given that Wikipedia is a free resource, written and edited by its users, theargument here is that surveillanceconcerns might deter readers and editors from participating in its project  and thereforejeopardize the health of Wikipedia as a resource to the world.It adds:Privacy is a core value of the Wikimedia movement. From the beginning, Wikipedia has allowed for users to maintain private identities through the use of anonymous or pseudonymous editing. This has been reinforced by the Wikimedia Foundations firm commitment to protecting the privacy and data of its users through legal and technical means.Privacy makes freedom of expression possible, sustains freedom of inquiry, and allows for freedom of information and association. Knowledge flourishes where privacy is protected.Its not the first time Wikimedia has publicly called out high level threats to its mission. Somewhat ironically, it last year aligned itself against a European pro-privacy legal ruling, colloquially referred to as the right to be forgotten, which requires search engines to process requests from private individuals who wantinformation delisted from a search for their name.Demands that we erase content can be a direct threat to our mission,Tretikov noted then. However in this instance Wikimedia is stepping up to defend the privacy of its users.The lawsuit follows a similar actionbrought by a group of pro-privacy organizations in the U.K. questioning the legality of the surveillance activities of domestic spy agency GCHQ.Last month the Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT), the U.K. judicial oversight body which handles complaints relating to domestic intelligence agencies, ruled that prior to last December data-sharing activities between GCHQ and the NSA wereunlawful on the grounds that theybreached European human rights law. It was the first such judgement reached by the IPT in its 15 years of operation.Despite that,the IPT deemsGCHQ-NSA data-sharing processes legal since December, on the grounds that another court case brought against the U.K. spy agency allowed for adequate signposting of the secret policies governing how data flows between internationalspy agencies, and for adequate arrangements to ensure legal compliance.Unlike the U.S., the U.K. does not have a single, written constitutional document hence that group making challenges based on human rights law, including at the European level.Last Aprila ruling by Europes top court, the European Court of Justice (ECJ), struck down specific European digital data retention powers on the grounds that they were disproportionately broad. However the U.K. government thenpushed emergency surveillance legislation through the U.K. parliament to reinstate similar data-capturecapabilities at a domestic level. And the U.K. government has continued to bang the drumfor increased digital surveillance powers.