
Phil Wickham is the chief executive of the Kauffman Fellows, a Silicon Valley-based leadership program for venture capitalists and innovators. Late last month a group of venture capital leaders and Kauffman Fellows from around the worldmet in Singaporeto discuss entrepreneurship in Asia. Their most pressing questions were around the effectChinas stock market crash last July and rough start to 2016 may have on the decade-long venture capital boom in Singapore and Hong Kong.Their conclusion: While Chinas economy is slowing, it is not a monolith that booms and crashes in a cycle where all boats rise or fall together.Glenn Solomon of GGV Capital views China as two economies: the old, largely comprising state-owned enterprises, and a new economy of venture-backed, mobile, and Internet start-ups. The old guardfrom declining manufacturing to brick and mortar retailersis suffering. Tech-enabled companies leveraging the Internet, mobile devices, and social media are booming.While old economy industries in China are slowing, the growth in new economy industries remains vibrant, Solomon writes onhis blog, Going Long.In the last 30 years, Chinas economy has grown as much as the United States didin 150 years, and now its old economy is set for a painful correction. But while the worlds second-largest economygrew at itsslowest pace in a quarter of a centurylast year, China is hardly collapsing.Growth was 6.9% in 2015, just below government expectations of 7% and the 7.3% recorded in 2014.Shanghai Stock Exchange. Photo courtesy Flickr/Aaron Goodman.Much of that growth is spurred by the new economy that will continue expanding, driven by BATBaidu or the Google of China, e-commerce firm Alibaba, and social media giant Tencent. These three firms have been on a massive spending spree, buying up startups to dominate Chinas rapid shift to smartphones and mobile devices. The woes of Chinas old economy should do little to alter that course.Keytone Ventures Director Eric Tau saystheC2C (copy to China) modelreplicating successful firms such as Google or Facebookhas been a boon. He explains, With many similarities in culture and market size, people expect to see many copy to ASEAN cases in the next 10 years as the infrastructure matures and spending power increases.Helen Wong, a partner at Qiming Venture Partners,says Indonesias low smartphone penetration rate and sizable potential user base make it attractive.Meanwhile, Singapore has benefited from Chinas weakening stock market. Late last year, there was an uptick in foreign money into Southeast Asia from investors who had historically invested in China.The shift was buoyed by valuations in China being expensive. VC investors are also diversifying portfolios across Asia, increasing exposure to Southeast Asia and India.Founding General Partner Hian Goh of NSI Ventures, a Series A fund focused on Southeast Asia, says asventure capital has grown regionally, Singapore and Hong Kongalready established financial centershave become hubs for Series B and later rounds of financing. Seed investment in earlier rounds is split between Singapore and localized offices in places such as Vietnam and Indonesia.Singapore skyline. Photo courtesy Flickr/Roman min.Singapore, with strong policies promoting entrepreneurs, is a safe bet. Singapores government poured S$16.1 billion into technology and research grants from 2011-2015 and will invest anotherS$19 billion over the next five years.Vinnie Lauria, managing partnerof Golden Gate Ventures, says the island economy has diversified ties with China and a host of other nations including India, Indonesia, Israel, and the United States.As China addresses its economic challenges and companies seek a safe venue for investment cash, Singaporesstartup sceneshould benefit.Venture capital has been booming in Southeast Asia, and especially in Singapore. Areport byPreqin and the Singapore Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SVCA) revealedthatSingaporean private equity and venture capital fund managers deployed more than $9 billion in 2014. And in 2013, venture funding for Singapores technology sector was$1.71 billion, up from just $27.9 million in 2011, according to Asian Venture Capital Journal Research.Hong Konghas closer ties to Beijing and so may see some volatility, but overall it too remains a goodbet, says Kauffman Fellow Anthony Chang, managing director at TL Ventures. Hong Kong attracts talent because of its unique location, with highly developed infrastructure where you can ride a subway to meet your OEM partner. I dont see the recent market turmoil having a huge effect on the level of activity happening in the startup world here in Hong Kong, Chang says.Investors will continue to be drawn to Southeast Asia for its young, highly educated workforce and the business-friendly environment that makes it perfectly positioned to prosper.Aboutone third of Singapores populationcomes from elsewherea dynamic associated with innovation.(For example,a 2012 Kauffman Foundation studyrevealed that in the previous seven years, 43.9 percent of Silicon Valley startups had at least one founder born outside the United States.)Night in Hong Kong. Photo Courtesy Flickr/Barbara Willi.As China shifts to become a consumption economy, its growth is increasingly spurred by a sophisticated, young workforce. Demographics and cultural trends should underpin consumption growth.For example, the Motion Picture Association of Americaexpects thatby 2017 China will take in more money at the box officethan U.S. movie theaters. Countless global firms are enjoying their fastest growth in China, including the worldssecond-most valuable brand,Apple, and sharing-economy innovators Uber and AirBnB.To be sure, China faces struggles. Millions of people are mired in poverty, it has a rapidly aging (and male) population, and it faces strong pressure to devalue the renminbi and open technology markets. Nevertheless, Chinas new economy will drive the regions appetite for venture capital. To ignore the power of Chinas new economy would be to risk missing out on the next Alibaba.