
Mark Goldman is the co-founder and CEO of ZypMedia.When Mitt Romney announced his presidential bid in June of 2011, Uber had been operating in NYC for less than a month, Steve Jobs was still alive and Siri hadnt been born. It might not seem like that long ago, but in the four years since the lastpresidentialrace, mobile technology and media consumption habits have changed dramatically.In keeping pace with that change, programmaticadtechnology has grown and improved tremendously, thanks to richer information sources; better geographic, demographic and behavioral targeting; and improved cross-device reach. Political campaign managers know this, which is why broadcast TV spending isforecasted to dip to $5 billion by 2020in favor of digital political ads, which willhave risen to within 30% of broadcast TV levels.Thanks to quantum advances in programmatic media buying capabilities, messaging undecided voters in specific locations and across devices is now possible in a way that it wasnt during the lastelection. But the rise ofadblocking software could mean that some groups arent going to be part of that conversation.Its hard to ignore the fact that theres some bad behavior going on in online advertising. Even as programmatic becomes more efficient, the choices publishers and advertisers make have led to no shortage of intrusive, often obnoxious, experiences that almost anyone would admit are overly aggressive.Now, because of a few poor players, some consumers are choosing to fight back by installingadblockers, which not only keep out obnoxious ads, but relevant ads too. What consumers may not realize is that by banishing ads, they could be unintentionally opting out of the political conversation that willinfluence the future of their country.Political messaging needs to reach voters where they consume media. But thats proving difficult.Like young voters before them, millennials have traditionally shown up to the polls inlow numbers. But this is expected to change as they enter an age range that is historically more actively engaged in elections.Research shows that millennials care about political issues, tend to be well-informed and express political opinionsthrough social media. But theyre also the group that has been the most difficult to reach through traditional advertising.Millennials are both digital natives and cord-cutters. And now, unfortunately for candidates, a staggering63 percent of themadmit that they have becomeadblockers,too.Just because millennials are growing up doesnt mean that theyre changing their media consumption habits. They engage online, but social media feeds can quickly turn into political echo chambers with few opportunities for new ideas or genuine discourse to break through.Harvard Professor Susan Crawford recently described cable-onlypresidentialdebates asthe New Poll Tax excluding groups who cant afford, or wont pay for, cable television service. Limiting political debate to exclusive media channels raises serious questions about the fairness of our elections and our democracy. How can we have a well-informed public if the dialog itself isnt public?Globally, users ofad-blocking software skew male and younger, with gaming sites showing the highest level ofad-blocker usage. Apples recent introduction of content-blocking capabilities on iOS devices means anotherspecific demographicwillget cut out of the conversation higher-income mobile consumers. These young people are the ones most likely to be making their first trip to the polls next year. As such, theyre an important group to reach. But doing so is becoming increasingly difficult.This creates a vicious cycle where issues important to younger voters, such as student-loan debt and climate change, become deprioritized because a large percentage of that group has chosen to intentionally or unintentionally opt out of the conversation.Between cord cutting andadblocking, millennials could be boxing themselves into a politicalFaraday cage effectively shutting out almost all communication from political candidates.By installingad-blocking software, some consumers are further removing themselves from the democratic process, possibly without even realizing it. This should be cause for concern, not just for advertisers and publishers, but for anyone who believes American democracy is best served by a well-informed public.Political campaigns have a reputation for going negative and getting ugly, so its understandable that some people might choose to insulate themselves from the whole process. But the fact is, political advertising is one of the few ways that candidates can get their message out in an increasingly fragmented media landscape.A year from now, American voterswillgo to the polls to choose the next leader of the most powerful country in the world. Somewillbe going for the first time. We can only hope that when those voters cast their ballots they are as well-informed as possible. That means being able to gather and analyze political speech from multiple channels: debates, opinion and analysis, journalism, endorsements and even online advertising. Theres too much at stake in our democracy for anything less.