Microsofts Cortanapersonal assistant competes against the likes ofApples Siri, Amazons Alexa and the unnamed mystery voice behind Google Now. Its part of a new wave of servicesslowly making talking tocomputers mainstream, but because of Microsofts weak position on mobile,it hasnt quite had the same impact as some of its competitors.Cortana is front-and-center at BuildAt its Build developer conference today, Satya Nadella, Microsofts CEO, put Cortana front and center. The company is launching a number of new features that may just tempt you to use it more often, focusing on how the future of Microsoft will be Mobile First / Cloud First  and how one augmentsthe other. Microsoft is calling it the conversation as a platform, living the at the intersection between all of its platforms and services.It is not going to be about man against machine, said Satya, Its about man with machine.Cortana flexing her muscles: Send Chuck the Powerpoint I worked on yesterday picks the right file and offers to send it to the correct person. Thats impressive, and way cleverer than whats available from other smart assistants.Maybe the most obviously usefulfeature here is that Microsoft is putting Cortana ahead of thelogin screen. Thanks to this, you will now be able to say Hey Cortana even when you are not logged into your PC. You wont be getting any of the personalization features of Cortana without being logged in, of course, given that this would open up a whole slew of privacy issues.She might be smart, but still hasnt developed much of a sense of humor.In addition, Microsoft is turning Cortana into a more proactive assistant. It will look at your activity and maybe offer you to send a presentation on your behalf or order lunch. Developers will be able tointegrate Cortanasnew proactive intelligenceinto their apps, too, by linkingthese new actions to their apps.From the demos at Build, its clear that Cortana has some serious firepower and clever tricks up her sleeve  certainly a lot more than Siri and herGoogle counterpart. As with everything else, however, adoption is king, and it remains to be seen whether Cortana being better than Siri is enough; the deep integration of the existing tools means theres a seemingly unsurmountablebarrier to getting people to switch away from the native assistants on Android and iOS.