Sitting through all the keynotesat Microsofts Build, theres one giant gaping hole in the coverage: Windows Phone was barely mentioned. In fact, it seems like the keynote speakerswere actively avoiding the platform in most of the sessions, showing that Microsoft hasbasically thrown in the towel altogether.In one presentation about how Visual Studio development, for example, the presenter received some enormous applause about the announcement that Xamarin was going free, and then went on to talk about how fantastically exciting it isthat the platform covered all the platforms!We dont care if its Android or iOS, we have you covered, the presenter said, and continued onto the rest of his presentation. Spot any platforms missing from that two-bulletpoint-list? Spoiler alert: Hedidnt mention BlackBerry,Symbian OS, Tizen, Sailfish, Palm OS  or Windows Phone.Showing off a key partnership with BMW at Build 2016 Hey wait a minute, thats not a Windows Phone.It wasnt just in this particular keynote, either; throughout all of Build, theres been a whole fat lot of nothing about WindowsPhone. Surface? For sure. Xbox? Yeah, why not. Windows 10? Hells yes. IoT? Now youre talking my language. Windows Phone? Ill let this GIF do the talking.A Starbucks and Outlook demo. Finally! A Windows 10 device! Oh, wait, no. iOS again.At the conference, BMW did all their demos on iOS devices. Starbucks did the same. And so did many others In fact, unless I briefly fell asleep (which is entirely possible), there may not have been a single Windows 10 mobilephone device on stage at any time during the Build keynotes.Not only did Microsofts presenters not care about Windows Phone, I didnt spot a single Microsoft staffer with a Windows Phone either. That, Ive got to say, has to be a proper kick in the teeth for people who bought Lumia devices after they took Microsoft at itsword when itsaid itwas doubling down last year. Although, come to think of it, they did try and turn your Windows Phone into a computer, so maybe that was a sign of things to come.See ya, Windows Phone. We barely knew you.