Gmail has hundreds of millions of users checking it multiple timesevery day. And if Aleem Mawanihas his way, itll have a development platform thats as big as Facebook.Mawani heads up Streak, a company that builds a software development kit for applications that integrate with Gmail. StreaksInboxSDK integrates with extensions in Chrome and automatically updates whenever theres a change in Gmail, meaning companies dont have to alter their apps whenever Gmail updates something new.Those integrations are designed to show up seamlessly in the Gmail interface, like Dropbox functions added to files or, in the case of Giphy, a small button that opens a search interface for gifs that users can add to messages. When an extension loads, it downloads the latest version of the platform and runs that app within Gmail.The company says it has around 2.5 million people who are using apps built with Streak, which include apps from companies like Dropbox. When I spoke to Mawani earlier this month, that number was around 2.3 million  so the companys user base is growing pretty quickly. It has 350 registered developers like Dropbox and Giphy, though there are more playing around with it. The developer base grows 20 percent and the user basegrows 30 percent every week, he said.The interesting thing is Gmail, like Facebook, people use it every single day and use it intensely for hours at a time, Mawanisaid. It seemed very strange for me that manycompanies werent even integrating [deeply] with Gmail. People are in Gmail the whole day, and [companies]want to convince them to go somewhere else.Sometimes the changes to Gmail are big, but the Streak team generally tries tohave an update out in a few hours that ensures that its keeping up with those changes. For example, when Gmail changed its compose menu, the team had to grind out a big update that took about four hours to get out, Mawani said. Most of these updates happen over the course of a few minutes,he said.Streak also builds customer relationship management software for Gmail, which was its primary business, Mawani said. It recently opened up that tech to build InboxSDK. It currently works with Gmail, but a Google Inbox version is coming soon, and Streak plans on doing other email platforms like Yahoo Mail and Outlook, he said.Of course, theres always a chance that Google could implement something like this, but it doesnt appear to be happening any time soon. Mawani said changes to Gmail only come every couple of months. He said a tool like Streak adds value to Googles Gmail customers and enterprise customers, so the company likes it.[Google building a Gmail SDK]would be a really good thing for the industry, for startups itd be great, and even for us itd be great, he said. The reason were building this SDKis to make it easy to build apps in Gmail. If they end up building it, great  thats less for us to do.Streak isbased in San Francisco and has eight employees.The company came out of Y Combinator in 2011, and has raised around $2 million in financing from investors like Chris Sacca and Garry Tan.