People have been talking about the death for Flash for years and years, andnowit seems like the nails are finally being driven into the coffin, particularly in the online ad industry.But Rob Cromer, co-founder and CEO of New York City startupAdcade, said the shift to the HTML5 format wont be easy for everyone. There are teams of designers and developers whove spent years working with Flash products and workflows, and you cant expect all of them to become proficient in HTML5 immediately.Thats why Adcade is launching a new version of its Epoch ad builder, which is supposed to allow designers and developers to create HTML5ads using familiar tools.Weve written previously about Adcades Adscript framework for building HTML5 ads. Adcade has been usingAdscript to create ads for its clients, but with Epoch, the startup is moving toward a self-serve model, combining a straightforward framework fordevelopers with an interface for designers to buildads without any coding at all.We said, all right, weve got this amazing tech, so how can we create an interface to turn this into a self-service model and take the political complications of the ad industry out of it? Cromer said.As far as political complications go, there are other WYSIWYG ad builders, including Celtra and Flite, but Cromer noted that theyre usually tied to one companys ad server. Adcade, on the other hand, is focused entirely on the ad builder, resulting in ads that can run on any ad platform, including DoubleClick, Sizmek and Atlas.Cromer and his co-founder/CTO Buzz Wiggins demonstrated Epoch for me, taking a digital storyboard from Photoshop and turning it into an ad in just a couple of minutes. Since Adcades LightSpeed technology exports a file from Photoshop with working layers, they pretty much had a functional ad from the start. However, they also quickly added animation effects in boththe drag-and-drop view, and then in the code view. And a live preview showed them how their ad would look on multiple devices as they made their changes.Shockingly, I dont build a ton of ads myself, but the demo seemed to liveup to Cromers claims of simplicity.Still, itfelt a little old-fashioned to be talking so much about display and banner ads, particularly given the current excitement about native ads and the worries about ad blocking.I think traditional banner advertising is always goingto have a place, he added. Its a fast way for people to get their message across at scale.Epoch is available for $99 per user per month. Cromer said Adcade intentionally set the price point low so that it becomes a tool thats used across the industry: We want the entire ecosystem to come into it.TechCrunch readers who sign up for Epoch with the promo code TECHCRUNCH will get 25 percent off their first month.