Meet Soundsgood, a French startup that wants to make it easier to publish playlists on the web. While its never been a better time to create a playlist on a streaming service and share it with readers and followers, everybody uses a different streaming service. Soundsgood works with Spotify, YouTube, Deezer, SoundCloud with more integrations in the works.Soundsgood targets music influencers, such as radios, music blogs and magazines, labels and artists. First, you need to connect your Soundsgood account with your Spotify, SoundCloud, Deezer and YouTube accounts to distribute your playlistsOnce you have created a playlist, you can import it to automatically create a playlist on all these platforms in a few clicks. Even better, you can check whether all songs are available on all services. This way, people can use their existing streaming service to listen to your playlists.If you add or reorder songs, Soundsgood automatically updates the playlist across all services. And when it comes to distributing your playlist, you can directly embed a player on your website, such as this one:When you hit the play button for the first time, Soundsgood will ask you whats your favorite music streaming service. Then, itll redirect you to this service so that you can play the playlist over there, like songs and more.And this is key to understanding Soundsgoods product. The startup makes it more convenient for both playlist creators and listeners to manage playlists. Its a win-win across the board.In the future, Soundsgood plans to integrate with more streaming services, such as Rhapsody/Napster, Microsoft Groove, Bandcamp, Audiomack, Anghami and more. Theres one notable exception and its Apple Music. Apple doesnt provide an API to publish playlists so Soundsgood cant do much.And yet, if you only need to publish your playlists on Soundsgood and Apple Music, its still an improvement compared to going to each and every streaming service out there. Now, I hope that my favorite music blogs are going to switch to Soundsgood so that I can easily save playlists to my Spotify account and listen to them later.