Yeti, an app that is essentiallyTinder for places, released an update today that makes it easier for users to use the app for local searches.Previously the appgenerated a stack of cards showing nearby restaurants, bars and activities, such as hiking routes or bike trails. Using the same interface as Tinder, you could swipe rightto indicate that you like a place or left to discard it.With todays update, the basic purpose of Yeti will remain the same, but its now easier theapp is making it easier to find exactly what youre looking for. You can filter the cards on Yeti to find specific things nearby using a new drop-down menu that allows you to choose to see only cafes or only nightlife options.With this new filter feature, Yeti founder Alex Capecelatro thinks the app will be able to compete with the leaders in local search, including Google and Yelp.Those websites are terrible on mobile, Capecelatro said. We understand what things you swipe on, weather, the time of day and can make a much more personalized experience.Capecelatro saidthat local searches account for 45 percent of all of Googles searches, but the search engine does not incorporate social data or yourinterests when you search for nearby options.Because Yeti was built specifically for mobile searches, its easy to find new places on the go because you dont have to type in what youre looking for. You just select it from the menu.Yeti also allows you to pocket your favorite places for later, saving them to buckets within the app. The buckets are also organized by location data, so if you save a favorite cafe in New York, it will go to the bottom of your list in San Francisco, but return to the top the next time youre in New York.Capecelatro predicts 2015 will bring a fragmentation of Google that will benefit apps like Yeti. He said Pinterest has challenged Googles image search function, andGoogleacquired Waze because the social aspects of the app threatened its Maps app. He thinks Yeti could be the next company to compete with Google in this way on local search.Yeti started last year as a spinoff of At the Pool, asocial network that connected people with similar interests. The At the Pool team wanted to focus more on the content in At the Pool rather than connecting people. With todays update, the app is improving how its users use that data.Yeti is fun because it makes looking for something to do around you feel more like a game. The app will only improve as it gains more users, as it relies on them to create content.The apps goal to compete with Google for local search may be a bit ambitious in its current state. Yeti is great when youre looking for general suggestions, but even with this new filter option, you cant search as specifically as you can with Google or Yelp.I would use Yeti if I werelooking fornew nightlife optionsor had some free time to kill, but Id probably pull up Google or Yelp if looking for a cheap Chinese restaurant or pharmacy open late.