If theres any doubt that Netflix doesnt want to just augment your cableTV subscription, but actuallydesires to replace it outright, then look no further than todays newsof the streaming services intention to reboot the classic 80s-to-early 90s comedy Full House, under the new, oh-so-creative title, Fuller House. The spin-off, deemed by some as nostalgia at its worst, panders to Netflixs core demographic the Gen Xers and millennials who still fondly recall time spent viewingthe treacly sitcom thatheadlined ABCs T.G.I.F line-up back in the day when appointment TV was a shared cultural activity.Netflix says the new sitcom will reunite former cast membersCandace Cameron-Bure (D.J. Tanner), Jodie Sweetin (Stephanie Tanner), Andrea Barber (Kimmy Gibbler), and John Stamos, who will not only reprise his role as Uncle Jesse, but also produce. Discussions with Bob Saget, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, Dave Coulier and Lori Loughlin regarding guest appearances are still underway, the company notes.The premise of the 13-episode reboot involves catching up with the children as they lead their adult lives. Where it once could be argued that the original Full House broke ground in showing men taking on the traditional female parenting roles (the three daughters were raised by widowed dad Danny Tanner and male family members), the reprised show simply uses tragedy as an idle nod to its series oforigin. Now its D.J. who has been widowed, for whatever reason, and friend Kimmy is a single mom. (A show about single moms is clearly fresh and rare?)But never mind that: the Internet buzz around Fuller House is trending toward being more positive than groan-inducing, sadly, according to social analytics provider Topsy, which has assigned Fuller House a sentiment score of 59 out of 100 based on the daystweets and other shares.Netflix, at least, knows its audience. And its audience is excited.Still, its hard to fathom that the same service that has delivered critically acclaimed favorites  and award winners  like House of Cards and Orange is the New Black  is now grabbing at low-hanging fruit  1980s nostalgia  to attractviewer interest.But to deemFuller House as beneath Netflixs dignity, as Vanity Fair did, misunderstands Netflixs intentions. The company doesnt only want to offer top-of-the-line, quality adult franchises  it wants to offer anything and everything a family could want. And that includes content for the kids, too.Yes, my fellow 30-somethings,Fuller House is not actually meant for you. Its for your children.Netflix knows that the built-in brand recognition that comes with the new show means parents will likely allow their children to watch, and will be happy to do so. Just as theyll allow them to watch Netflixs Care Bears and Cousins, which arrives sometime in 2016. Or Richie Rich, a Netflix Original which debutedthis year. Or The Magic School Bus 360. Or any of the spin-offs from NetflixsDreamWorks Animation deal, which saw the service gaining the rights to popular kids characters like that lemur from the Madagascar movies or the Puss in Boots cat from Shrek.Competitors like Amazon, on the other hand, have been rolling out kids originals of their own butare faced with having to introducenew characters and otherwise unknown brands like Tumble Leaf or Annedroids or Creative Galaxy to their audience.Netflix, on the other hand, is betting on the fact that well-known characters sell, and being able to tapinto subscribers sense of nostalgia is just icing on the cakeSweet, delicious, potentially very profitableicing.And lets be fair Netflix is not alone in its efforts to dust off our memories in exchange for our cash: its move ispart of a larger industry trend to reboot classics, which has more recently included other networks efforts at bringing back Twin Peaks(Showtime), The X-Files(Fox), and The Muppet Show(ABC), to name a few.Meanwhile, as the networks wage their nostalgia wars, Netflixs expansions into morefamily-friendly contentwill see it also taking ontraditional kids channels like Disney or Nickelodeon, who today target younger, mobile viewers with on-demand apps (and Nickelodeon more recently with its own over-the-top streaming service Noggin).But Netflix doesnt limit itself to only serving the younger demographic or only the grown-ups. Netflix can be a unique channel for every one of its viewers, whether four, 14or 40.For what its worth, Netflixs strategy has been working. Nielsen last Novemberfound that after people sign up for streaming video services, they then watch less TV. In the 18-34 year-old demographic, they watch 20 percent less TV. In the 25-54 year-old demographic, 19 percent less. TV viewing also declined by 7 percent year-over-year as of October 2014, the firm noted, as streaming subscribers grew from 34 percent in January 2014 to 40 percent by September.So ifNetflix is out to replace TV  or at the very least, drastically cut into traditional TV viewing  then it has to have all types of content. Even crap things like Fuller House.