Wooplr, a startupthat is aiming to ignitesocial commerce in India, has closed a $5 million Series A funding round fromHelion Ventures to expand its team and grow across the country.Bangalore-based Wooplr started out as a social network for sharing fashion photos, but it has evolvedinto a discovery platform for fashion enthusiasts. It was founded in March 2013 by four ex-McAfee colleagues  Arjun Zacharia, Soumen Sarkar, Praveen Rajaretnam and Ankit Sabharwal  and previouslyraised a$225,000 seed round.We aim to deliver on the promise of social commerce  providing the right product, to the right user, at the right time, Rajaretnam told TechCrunch in an interview.Wooplr doesnt let users buy items directly from its service (yet). Instead it lets users post pictures of their outfits, which are thensurfaced and showcased to others, who are alsogiven details ofwhere they can go to buy them both online and at offline outlets near them.The serviceuse a basic follower/following principle, with a sprinkling of suggested and curated content thrown in for good measure. For instance,the service personalizes suggested items and suggested users based onthings like search history, current location items viewed, friends and more.The startup counts around100,000 registered users across its Android, Windows Phone and iOS apps  a desktop service exists, but the founders are focused on the opportunity in mobile. Itsaid that 80 percent of its active users are women. At this point, all content has been added by users themselves, and there areproducts from more than 1,600 retailers at this point.The startup is aiming to scale significantly this year, and it wantsto break five million app downloads and 100,000 thousands retailers on the platform before the end of 2015. Its25 person team is likely to grow to around 100over that period, too,in order to scale to as many cities and users as possible.Interestingly, the company said its mobile efforts will primarily be devotedto developing its Android app,which is the most dominant mobile OS in India based on market share.As for making money, Wooplr hasnt yet turned on the monetization tap, but it did test the water witha limited trial among retailers. Selected partners paid $10 to have a store-front inside the service. Rather than displayingtheir entire inventory, they were encouraged to showcase newer items and things that would appeal to Wooplrs primary audience of females aged 16-30.The company plans to use its experience from the trial to go after other money-making initiatives that serveboth the Wooplr user base and retailers too. The fact that many brands and retails are already (perhaps unknowingly) present on the service  from users photos  gives them a good starting pointwhen pitching.There is also an ambitionto move into payments in the future, soas to capture transactions at the moment of interest from its users.