Microsoft announced in February its plans to acquire the cross-platform development platform Xamarin; the deal closed about two weeks ago. Even though the ink on the contracts has barely dried, Microsoft already made Xamarin the center of attention at its annual Build developer conference today by announcing its plans to roll Xamarin into every Visual Studio tier, including the free Community Edition version.After the keynote, I had a chance to sit down with both Xamarin CEO and co-founderNat Friedman and Microsofts corporate vice president of Visual StudioJulia Liusonto talk about the acquisition.Xamarin and Microsoft always felt like natural allies. Over the years, the companies relationship only grew stronger, so the acquisition didnt really come as a major surprise.As Friedman, who co-founded Xamarin with Miguel de Icaza, told me, the acquisition discussions with Microsoft started in earnest around the middle of November 2015 and he signed the term sheet in the early morning on January 1.Over the course of the discussion, Friedman and Liuson stressed Microsofts support for open source as one of the reasonsXamarin is such a good fit for the company. That attracted us a lot, Friedman said. Satya [Nadella] and Scott [Guthrie] have made huge changes and the vibe, the personality, the perspective, the energy of Microsoft are so exciting to us right now. That was a huge attraction to us  being part of this new Microsoft, being part of this recognition that we are ina multi-platform world, this cloud revolution.While Xamarin long stressed that it wasnt really for sale, Friedman argued that what also attracted him in this deal was the ability to reach more developers. We had a very healthy, exciting, stand-alone business that we loved running, but when you have the opportunity to make your code open source and free and available tohundreds of times as many developers, its hard to pass that up, he said.He also stressed that after having met Nadella, Liuson and other members of Microsofts executive team during an offsite meeting a few weeks ago, he felt even better about the acquisition. I was really surprised, to be honest, he said. Even already having this optimistic viewpoint that lead me to doing the acquisition, I wasnt expecting the level of talent, passion, optimism, cooperation, and enthusiasm that I saw among Satyas and Scotts top team. He also noted that he doesnt think the public reputation of Microsoft, even though it has improved, has caught up to the reality of whats going on inside Microsoft.Judging by Friedmans comments, Microsoft decided to add Xamarin to Visual Studio  including the free Community Edition  pretty early on in the discussions, and Friedman noted that this only helpedmake the deal more appealing to the Xamarin team, which will, with a few exceptions, make the transition to Microsoft even as Xamarin keeps its SF headquarters.So whats on the roadmap for Xamarin going forward now that it has open sourced many of its tools and has officially become part of the Visual Studio ecosystem? Friedman and Liuson told me that a deeper integration with Visual Studio (which already features lots of Xamarin support) is an obvious next step, but they also stressed thatMicrosofts Azure cloud computing services and its DevOpsservices areotherintegration points for Xamarin, as well. Azure is an incredible service, Friedman said. We will provide deeper integration between Xamarin and Azure so developers can more easily build cloud-connected apps. You want a consumer-grade frontend and a scalable, global cloud backend and we now have the pieces to make that happen.Xamarins Test Cloud, which lets developers remotely test their apps on a bank of hardware devices, also makes for an easy product to integrate into the likes of Visual Studio and Microsofts DevOps and application life-cycle services. Friedman noted that the company plans to continue to invest in the service (though he hintedthat the name may change over time).With Xamarin Studio for the Mac, Microsoft now owns a Mac-based IDE. When I asked Liuson about what the companys plans are for that, she noted that Xamarin is a powerful brand and that the company plans to stick with it, but over time, well see what happens. And, as Friedman added,If Xamarin could over time earn the honor ofrepresenting Visual Studio on Mac, that would be great.At this point, though, it looks like the Xamarin brand isnt going away anytime soon.Friedman also tells me that Xamarin will expand its Xamarin University offering, which offers both live and online training for developers, to cover the rest of the mobile stack.In addition, he notedthe company hopesitll also be able to foster an even more active open source developer community under Microsoft.Its rare that you get an acquisition to align all of the four stakeholders in the company. For us, thats our investors, employees, products and customers, Friedman said. For each of those, you see huge advantages  and now that the plot has been unveiled a little bit, you can see why this is so beneficial. For our customers, to have Microsoft standing behind the productupon which they are basing their mobile strategy is a huge benefit.Both Xamarin and Microsoft are obviously still in their honeymoon phase, but given that the two companies already worked so closely together before, they both clearly knew what they were getting themselves into. Friedman and Liuson seem extremely optimistic about how well the merger will play outand so far, it looks like it will also benefit both Xamarins and Visual Studios users in the long run.