Xiaomi today took the wraps of off its newest smartphone, the Mi 4i, at an event in New Delhi, India.The device, its first to be designed outside of China and first to run Android Lollipop out-of-the-box, will be available for 12,999 INR (around $205)fromApril 30. It is customized for India where it will debut, but will be available in other Xiaomi markets too.The Mi 4i packsa five-inch, 1080p display and the same (impressive) 13-megapixel rear-facing camera within its Mi Note phablet, composed ofa five-element lens.The front-facing camera clocksin at five megapixels. Xiaomis VP of Global, Hugo Barra, who introduced the device, also revealed thatits beautify technology is now enabled by default for taking selfieswrinkles be gone, as hedemonstrated on his own photo.Anti-aging has never been this easy, or defaultUnder the hood, the Mi 4iis powered by a second generation Snapdragon 615 from Qualcomm, which includes an eight-core 64-bit processor. Theres 2GB RAM and 16GB of on-boardmemory the Mi 4iis dual-SIM and includes support for 4G within both slots. Thats a pretty impressive return for your $205 investment.Size-wise, the deviceis 7.8mm thick, weighing in at 130 grams, with a generous 3120 mAh battery.Barra said the phonesquick charge feature enables a 40 percent charge within an hour, or a full charge inside three hours.Xiaomi is putting a lot of emphasis on photo taking with itsnew phone. One interesting addition isa technology called Sunlight Display which, as Barrademonstrated, increases the visibility of images on the display duringharsh sunlight conditions.Xiaomi has also packed more into its HDR feature, which now includes gamma and contrast tuning, color correction, and low-light de-noising. The quest, it seems, is to help users take photoslike the pros.Xiaomis Sunlight Display feature demoedThe company has regularly talked about the need to localize its devices to specific markets, and one Indianizedfeature comingto its MIUI operating system is Visual IVR. Thats a text-based system that shows up when a teleprompter kicks into a call. Barra demonstrated how it can savetime by letting a user skip through long-winded menuswhen calling up to check train times, for example.The Mi 4i, which builds last summers Mi 4and stands alongside this years Mi Note, will be available in five colors when it launches. Would-be customers will, however, have to negotiateXiaomis notoriously frustrating flash sales for a chance to actually buy the new phone.The event, which was broadcast via a live stream that stuttered at times, also included a rare English-speaking cameo from Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun, who told the (seemingly) delighted attendees that theyd all go home with aMi Band,itswearable going on sale in India very soon.Xiaomis first unveiling in India is the latest in a series of efforts to expand its business and visibility in the country. The Chinese company, ranked the worlds third-largest phone-maker based on shipment numbers, began selling its smartphones via Amazon and Snapdeal for the first time and also throughoffline retail outlets from operator Airtel and The Mobile Store. Xiaomis Mi devices were initially only available via online retailer Flipkart thanks to an exclusive deal.Details ofthe Mi 4i are recapped in this Xiaomi video:Note: The original version of this article wasupdated to correct the description ofthe sunlight display feature.