Xiaomi regained itscrown as the top smartphone firm in China duringQ2 2015, according to reports from twoanalyst firms.The Chinese company, which is valued at more than $40 billion and recently launched inBrazil, topped the scales in China with15.9percent of all shipments, according to figures from Canalys. Apple, which was first in China inthe previous quarter, fell to third, with Huawei taking second place (15.7 percent) thanks to impressive 48 percent quarter-on-quarter growth fueled by its Honor products. Samsung and Vivo rounded out Canalys top five.Analyst data is, of course, subject to interpretation, but figures from Counterpoint Research appear to validate most of Canalys findings. Counterpoint placed Xiaomi first (15.8 percent marketplace), ahead of Huawei (15.4 percent), Apple (12.2 percent) and Vivo (8.1 percent marketplace; 250 percent year-on-year growth), with Samsung in fifth.While Apple lost the top spot, both analyst houses commented that it put in a strong quarter considering that its flagship devices  the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus  are no longer new to the market.We already knewApple had a blockbuster Q2 in Chinaas its financials showed, and the fact that it can still compete at this point in the year bodes well for its upcoming devices.As for Samsung. The firm continues to suffer in China, most likely due to the popularityof mid-range devices from Xiaomi and (now) Huawei. The Korean firm has placed serious focus on China, turning out a series of super thin, mid-range phones that debut there first, but that strategyhasnt drawn the desired results yet.Xiaomi, on the other hand, bounced after two success dips back to take spot. ItsMi Note phablet and new $150 Redmi 2 the top two devices in the quarter, according to Counterpoint. That said,Huaweis growth andincreased competition from Samsung are of concernin the longer term.Apple and Samsung have both increased their sales activities in the China market, expanding rapidly in channel coverage through flagship stores and small to medium size phone retailers respectively. Xiaomi is under immense pressure to maintain its top position in the quarters to come, said Canalys analyst Jingwen Wang in a statement.Overall, the Chinese market  the worlds largest for smartphones  continues to slowly contract following a dip in the previous quarter. Counterpoint estimated that shipments slid by 2percent year-on-year in Q2 2015, but did rise 4percent quarter-on-quarter.