Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi today confirmed that it sold just shy of 35 million phones in the first half of this year.We sold 34.7 million smartphones in 1H 2015 alone, a 33% year-on-year increase! Big thanks to Mi fans. RT the news! pic.twitter.com/5EGzJBDlDc Mi (@xiaomi) July 2, 2015Xiaomi, which is valued at $45 billion and is the worlds third largest exporterof phones, this weekexpanded into Brazil and is thought to have a slate of other international expansions lined up for this year. Thats important because CEO and co-founder Lei Jun previously estimated that the company would sell 100 million smartphones this year. While 34.7 million in the first half of 2015 is impressive  Xiaomi said it represents a 33 percent increase on the first half of 2014  the company is going to need to kick up its sales if it is to hit Lei Juns lofty target for 2015.The five-year-old Chinese companys total sales for last year came in at 61 million, which brought in around $12 billion in revenue  Xiaomi did not provide details of its profit or loss for the period. The company has scaled rapidly on account of its international expansion  it sold 18.7 million devices in 2013, and 7.2 million in 2012 prior to venturing outside of China  but its next set of new launches will a sterner test of its business and appeal to consumers.Beyond Brazil, where it will begin selling its first phone on July 7, the company previously earmarked Turkey, Mexico, Russia and other parts of Southeast Asia as future expansions. As of now, it sells its phones in eight countries in Asia, while it recently beganselling accessories in Europe and the U.S..Even with the China smartphone market slowing down, we did a stellar job of posting a 33% growth on last years numbers. It can be said that we outperformed the market and produced an excellent report card, Lei Jun said in a statement.Xiaomi didnt revealwhich markets accounted for what portion of sales, but it is fair to assume that China  where its brand is strongest  dominated. The company did share, however, that 70 percent of sales came via its Mi.com store. Thats its primarily retail point, but it is has partnered withphysical retail distributors in China, India and other countries too.Another detail missing is which phones have sold the most units so far this year. Xiaomi isnt giving that figure out either, but it did disclose that six of its models Mi 2, Mi 3, Redmi, Redmi Note, Mi 4 and Redmi 2  have shipped over 10 million units to date.