Rumors thatGoogle feelsthreatened by the fast-paced rise of Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, which has built its own UI atop Android and in China also offers its own app store (rather than pre-loadingGooglePlay),were presumably front of mind for Xiaomi VP and former Google employee Hugo Barra today.During an on stage interview at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Barramade some emollientcomments, going out of his way to stressthat Xiaomis China app store model is not something it is planning to replicate in other markets.So, in other words, despite having aggressive global expansions plans, Xiaomis business strategy is not about scaling up fast in order to pushGoogle out of theAndroid value pipe by swapping outMountain View services everywhere it operates.The reality of the Chinese smartphone market is such that Google services arenot established in the way they are elsewhere. Chinese smartphone makershave used Androids open source core to fork and package the UI with local alternatives. And while Xiaomi has also done that in China, Barra was making it plainthat thatis the exception for Xiaomi, notthe rule.We have no plans to take that [the Mi app store] outside of China, because we are working with Google in every other market, said Barra. We are a GMS [Google Mobile Services] partner. We have been from the very first day that we sold our first device outside of China.He went further, adding that in his view GMS apps  includingthe Play Store, Gmail, YouTube and Google Maps  are essentiallynecessary for survival for anyone who is outside of China.We are, I believe, the number three Android app store in China today, he added. Im not 100 per cent sure on that position because its not something that can be easily calculated but I think were about the number three. And I think its a consequence of the fact that our platform, MIUI, has become very popular, not only through our own device sales but the fact that its the most popular Android ROM in China. And with that comes the Mi app store.Last month Xiaomiheld an event in Silicon Valley, to explain itself toa market it has not yet launched smartphones in but is planning to offer what Barra referred totoday as its hero accessories.ThoseU.S. baby steps are aboutintroducing Xiaomis brand in a place where its likely only known to tech bloggers, he added.You can think of it as beginning of the process of building our brand in markets where people dont yet know about us, he said.Healso talked up the complexity of launching tightly integrated smartphone hardware plus services into a new market like the U.S., and described the market as offeringa less powerful value proposition for Xiaomi  which typically sells its smartphone hardware at near cost price, including offering premium, high end devices.That means keeping costs down is key to Xiaomis business model. Barra touched onvarious ways it does that, includinghaving a very limited portfolio ofdevices which mayremain on sale for longer than the average to achieve better economies of scale and reductions in manufacturing costs; selling devices directly, meaning there are no third parties taking sales commission; and spending little or nothing on below the line digital advertising, relying instead on social media and online word of mouth for marketing.Weve got to bring all of those services to the U.S. when and if were ready to launch there, and then theres marketing  theres a whole other set of things we have to do. And then theres the fact the U.S. is a carrier-led market where subsidies are very common In some ways  and also considering the fact that GDP per capita in the U.S. is so much higher our value proposition is not as intensively powerful as it is in a market like Brazil or Russia, or Indonesia, or India  which is our biggest overseas market right now, he said.That only means yes we would love to be in the U.S. with our flagship products but it is not at the top of our priority list  or anywhere near the top of our priority list, he added.