Xiaomi has announced its latest smartphone, the Mi 4c, an impressive $200 budget version of its flagship Mi 4 device. Thats not all: the Chinese company also ventured into mobile operator services after revealingtwo prepaid packages forcustomers in China.Like the Mi 4i, a smartphone that Xiaomi launched specifically for India back in April, so the Mi 4c is aimed at its China-based customers. And its mighty impressive on paper, at least.The Mi 4isports a five-inch display and is powered by a64-bit processor, Xiaomi claims it is the first device equipped with theQualcomm Snapdragon 808. Theres also a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, and a five-megapixel selfie camera, as the front-facing camera is increasingly referred to. Also notable, the Mi 4i includesthenew USB Type-C and Quick Charge 2.0 to help manage battery life.The basic Mi 4c comes with 2GB RAM and 16GB in storage and will cost 1299 RMB ($203), an enhanced version  3GB RAM and 32GB storage  will be available for RMB 1499 ($235). Both models willship with Xiaomis older MI UI 6 software, but the company saidan upgrade to its new MI UI version 7 will be available soon.Releasing impressively specced devices atseriously aggressive prices is what Xiaomi is renowned for  the Mi 4c is yet another very competitive offering that should worry Samsung and others but mobile operators services issomething new altogether. The firm is one of a bunch of non-telecom companies that snagged MVNO (mobile virtual network) licenses in China. That allows them to resell mobile packages from telecom companies using their brand/name, and now Xiaomiis putting that to use inChina.Mi Mobile, Xiaomis mobileoffering, has two initial services. Theresa pay-as-you-go tariff charged at RMB 0.10 (sub $0.02) per voice call minute, SMS, or 1MB of data, and a RMB 59 ($10) monthly bundle that gives users3GB of data. The first option is available from September 23, while the second comes online in October  both will be available from Mi.com, Xiaomis online store, in China.The mobile services ventures is an intriguing new business from Xiaomi. The company is the countrys top smartphone seller, and China accounted for the majority of the 34.7 million smartphones that Xiaomi sold in the first half of this year, but Xiaomi said it will fall short of its sales target for 2015. So, alongside its push to sell wearables and smart home devices, a move into mobile services is a way to strengthen its brand among customers and pick additional revenue.