Famed accelerator Y Combinator has grown a lot under the direction of Sam Altman, who was appointed president roughly two years ago.Itsgrown so much in fact that Altman, known for constantly iterating on YCs model, says itsnow too big for him to manage as closely as he once did, so hes shifting more responsibility to a number of his longtime colleagues.Paul Buchheit, who created Gmail and founded FriendFeed, and who joined Y Combinator a little more than five years ago, is taking over for Altmanas managing partner of the core YC program, which admits hundreds of startups every yearand whips them into shape forother investors.YC Fellowship, a lighter-weight version of YC that provides startup teams with $12,000 grants and access to advice from the YC community, will now have Kevin Hale as managing partner. (Hale joined YC in 2013, two yearsafterselling his YC-backed company, WuFoo, to SurveyMonkey.)Meanwhile, some things wont change: For example, former Twitter CFOAli Rowghani will remain themanaging partner of YC Continuity, the $700 million late-stage growth fund that YC announced in October oflast year. Hacker News, which was spun out of Y Combinator last September to provide it full editorial independence, will also continue to be managed by Dan Gackle, who joined YCfull-time in March 2014, after previously cofounding a spreadsheet startup calledSkysheet.As for Altman, hell now berunning YC Research, a nonprofit research lab formed by the company last Octoberthat will make anyIP developed freely available to everyone. (Note: Altman is still looking for the right person to run it full-time.) He says in a post that hell also spend his time across YC Fellowship, YC Core, and YC Continuity.We talked withAltman earlier today for more details. He explained that the new structure generally reflects how weve been operating unofficially over the past few months. It just gives us the opportunity to get more done in parallel, which has been the goal going forward.Asked if he was relinquishing any of his decision-making authority, he said no. I still expect to be involved in every major decision. I just wont be doing some of the things I was doing before, like, if some investor ismisbehaving and we need to go deal with that, I can avoid getting involved hopefully.Altman added that he does not expect to spend an inordinate amount of time tinkering with YC Research, saying it doesnt require much oversight as it has made one investment to date and expects to make just one or two this year. Hes also not in a rush to hire someone into the job of leading the unit. Its good to do things for yourself for a while to get a feel for [what the job] requires, he said.Altman also made some other announcements today. In the same order that he announced them:Kirsty Nathoo is going to be the CFO across the entire YC group.Carolynn Levy and Jon Levy are going to be the General Counsels across the YC group.Dalton Caldwell is going to be responsible for admissions to the core program.Kat Maalac is responsible for the outreach efforts YC doesto meet potential new founders, and shell also be working closely with Haleon the Fellowship.Matt Krisiloff, a new hire, is working with Haleon YC Fellowship. Krisiloffpreviously cofounded a couple of companies, including Entom Foods, which aimed to turninsect meat into a palatable, sustainable food source. He also co-founded a mental health directory that helped people find therapists and logged time as an associate with Hyde Park Angels in Chicago.Denis Mars, another new hire, will workwith Caldwellon admissions for YC Core. Marsis a YC alumni (he was the founder of Meetings.io) and the founder of several other companies.Verena Prescher, a third new hire, is working with Nathooas the controller of YC Continuity. Prior to joining Y Combinator, Verena was thecontroller at Felicis Ventures.