For better or worse, Y Combinator is putting the pedal to the metal.On the heels of some of its biggest classes to date, the well-known accelerator is today introducing yet anothernew program. That initiative?The YC Fellowship program.The broad strokes are as follows: About 20 teams that are very, very early and havent yet received funding elsewhere will be chosen by Y Combinator to receive a $12,000 grant. The teams can be based anywhere.In exchange for the grant, the chosen teams will be expected to focus on their companies full-time for the eight weeks from mid-September through mid-November. During that period,YC will have one full-time partner and one part-time partner dedicated to helping them. Theteams willalso be flown to Y Combinatorsheadquarters in Mountain View to meet its partners, theyll take part in its office hours, and theyll attend workshops run by YC partners and alums. After that, the teams will be welcome toaccess Y Combinatorvia remote office hours every two weeks, as well as to book office hours with people in the YC community.At the end of the eight weeks, Y Combinator will host an event where the teams will again gather in Mountain View for a demo day attended by partners and alums. Note: these presentations will not include outside investors. Though none of thefellows will be obligated to raise funding from Y Combinator, its the programs hope that some of the startups will apply for its Winter 2016 batch (after which theywouldtake part in one of its more widely attended Demo Days).Asked why Y Combinator is launching the program, partner Kat Manalac says its a concept weve talked about among the partnership for a while. As an organization, we want to be able to enable as much innovation as possible.Asked whetherY Combinator has concerns regarding how well it can know a team thatits mentoring from afar,Y Combinator President Sam Altman admits easily that no one yet knows.To be very clear about my own feelings here: I think this is the part of the experiment most likely to fail, he tells us. I could easily see us deciding to proceed long-term with the fellowship but killing off the remote part. Of course, Id love to be wrong.One thing that seems certain:Founders witha promising business but who havent yet raised fundingcant use this new fellowship program as a backdoor intoY Combinatorsmore traditional program.Pressed on the meaning ofvery, very early, Manalac tells us it meansteams thatare in the idea or prototype stage. . .If youre further along, she says, we would encourage you to apply for the winter 2016 batch of YC.Certainly, YC Fellowshipis an intriguing proposition. Says Altman, I think one thing we often forget in Silicon Valley is that it is often harder for very talented people far away from any startup hub to raise a tiny amount of money to live on while they hack than it is for someone in SV to raise half a million dollars.The idea of almost limitless Y Combinatoris fascinating, too. Its Altmans believe thatthere are advantages to every node in the network with the network getting bigger,assuming the average quality of each node keeps going up, which it seems to be doing.Still, yet another new program may have some wondering if Y Combinator isnt iterating too quickly.Since cofounder Paul Graham stepped away from day-to-day operations early last year and installed Altman as head honcho, Y Combinator has gone through an almost breathtaking number of changes, including growing the number of partners within the organization to 16 full-time partners (up from four in earlier days); ending an investment structure that invested in each startup with the help of outside investors; andassemblinga late-stage vehicle that will reportedlyallow it to take stakes in some of its fastest-growingportfolio companies. (Altman declined to address questions about the last, citing SEC restrictions.)Of course, Graham had long aspired to see Y Combinator fund many more companies. Under his own stewardship, thefraternity of startups that Y Combinator has advised grew from roughlya dozen startups per batchto an eventual84 startups in one class. (Graham later concededthat the number stretchedY Combinators comparativelylimitedbandwidthat the time. Its largely why today,YC is split into four groups, each of which has two or three dedicated partners who havebetween 25 and 30 companies under their oversight.)Altman doesnt mindnaysayers, in any case. He arguesthatY Combinator seems to keep scaling pretty well,saying thaton the metricsthatwe can judge [one to two]years out of the program, the companies seem to keep getting better. He also tell us that he hasnever believed the maxim that VC firms cant scale. If product companies can, we should be able, too. Infact, I think weve already scaled much more than most people thought possible.Indeed.Late last year, Y Combinatorwelcomed 114 startups into its winter program, and there are currently 106 companies in its summer batch.By many measures, that seems like an already stunning number of companies.Yet if Altman has his way, those numbers may soon seem quaint by comparison.Someday, reads a newly published post about YC Fellowship, wed love to fund 1,000 companies per year.