At Disrupt today, Y Combinator Sam Altman had a somewhat gloomy prediction for attendees and the broader audience following the conference: If the state and federal government cant get its act together in time and find solutions to shifts brought by technology,were in serious trouble.Longer term, Altman expressed some concern about the growing divide between rich and poor that technology is accelerating. Altman was largely referring to a future in which a growing number of smart machines (presumably owned by a dwindling number of increasingly more powerful companies) isexpected to take jobs away from humans.He doesnt necessarily think the robots themselves will beproblematic, thoughhe strongly advises that we start figuring out how to ensure theyre nice to us.I dont know if it will happen in 10 or 50 years . . . but [this] isnt just creating technology. [Its]creating a new life form. Its really high beta. Thisnew species will be also more powerful thanus, sowe should make sure we [create it] in the best way for humans.Altman also doesntbelieve in hard work for hard works sake, calling that a Puritanical notion that Americans should dump at the curb. I dont have a particular problem with massive job destruction, said Altman.His bigger concern is the governments inability to adapt to the coming shifts, noting thatcurrent wealth redistribution systems are so bad, so mismanaged. . .Altman seemed equally troubledabout our short-term future, particularly inthe Bay Area, where not only are jobs not yet disappearing but where they are insteadgrowing by leaps and bounds  and creating pressure for housing that San Francisco seems unable to meet.Asked if Y Combinator was partly responsible for such demand, Altman demurred, offering instead that thereare seven million people in the Bay Area, and the companies we funded have hired tens of thousands of people total, so I dont think were breaking the infrastructure of the Bay Area.Still, he noted, a dearth of housing in San Francisco is ahuge and growing problem, and he blamed theincompetence of governance.Said Altman, If afounder in San Francisco can build a $50 billion company in five years, but the San Francisco government cant approve [enough] new housing developments in the same span, thats going to break. . .Its really bad. . .Im very optimistic most of the time, but Im not optimistic that government will get its act together in time.Heres the full interview:


Facebook

LinkedIn

Bubble, Bubble, Toil and Trouble with Sam Altman
