Simon Khalaf, Yahoos senior vice president of publisher products, today outlined some big shifts in the mobile ecosystem and unveiledsome new tools for mobile developers. He made the announcements on-stage at theYahoo Mobile Developer Conference in New York City and in related blog posts.Lets start with the developer tools. The first one is Tumblr In-App Sharing. Basically, its a Tumblr share button, but for mobile apps rather than websites. The launch partner for this is mobile photo editor PicsArt  so users can now share the photos and collages that theyve createdin PicsArt, directly from the app into Tumblr.Khalaf noted that this should drive traffic back to PicsArt, because the Tumblr posts will either deeplink to PicsArt (if the user already has the appinstalled) or include a link to download. (As a result, Khalaf said the traditional blue link is out, completely gone.) Developers will also get to see how often theirshared content gets reblogged, clinked on or liked.Other new tools include real-time analytics for developers using Flurry (Khalaf joined Yahoo through the acquisition of Flurry), with data automatically updating every 15 seconds. And Yahoo said it will now help mobile developers integrate native video ads into their apps.As for Khalafscomments about the broader landscape, he pointed to enormous growth in mobile usage, both to crow about Flurry (which he said is integrated with 720,000 apps reaching 2 billion devices  so it, uh, beats the distribution of clean water) and to talk about the bigger media opportunity. After all, he said average daily usage on mobile has increased from 162 to 220 minutes in 2015. The time spent in the mobile browser is a rapidly shrinking part of that pie, with more than 90 percent oftime spentin apps. And media consumption (if you include the media consumption in social media and messaging apps) accounts for more than half ofthat app time.That tied into Khalaf final point, that its time for the television industry to cut the cord on your end before the consumer cuts the cord on their end.Theres a very simple way to do it: Liberate your content, he said. Dont keep it shackled by the cable industry after 20 years of horrible consumer service. Let your content out. Its being paid for.