During a video stream discussing YahoosQ1 earnings today, CEO Marissa Mayer noted that Yahoo has closed down 17 offices since she joined the company as part of a widerefficiency strategy. Anditlooks like Yahoo is eyeing up one morebig downsizein its international profile: the company has retained advisors to decide what to do with its35.5%, $9 billion stake in Yahoo Japan, a longtime portal in the country that Yahoooperates as a joint venture with Softbank.Would this be a full sale of the stake? Or a partial sell-off, a la Groupons move with Ticket Monster? We wont know for a while yet.Mayerhighlighted that whatever the company decides to do with the stake will be a key priority but would also require careful study.Later, CFO Ken Goldman also reiterated her words, noting:We remain focused on maximizing value of our stake in Yahoo Japan.Yahoos 35.5%stake is estimated to be worth nearly $9 billion. Its the companys second major investment in Asia, alongsideYahoos $40 billion stake in e-commerce giant Alibaba. That stake is getting spun off into a separate entity.Yahoo itself apparently makes revenues of $250 million annually from Yahoo Japanthrough search and ad agreements, according to one analyst asking a question during the earnings stream. When asked about howa sell-off would impact those revenues, Goldman replied that hed rather not speculate We will work with financial advisors [to see what would] make the most sense.Unsurprisingly the news is helping to sendup Yahoos shares after they slumped in the wake of the company reported earnings that showed declines in revenue and profit.Mayer said that a plan will be announced in a future call.Softbank and Yahoo first formed the JV in 1996, as Japans first web portal. Amazingly, it continues to hold out by using Yahoos old logo.The business listed on Tokyos stock exchange in 1997. Those shares are also trading up at the moment. Softbank, an Alibaba shareholder like Yahoo,has been on an investment tear in the wake of Alibaba going public. It could potentially be one buyer of Yahoos share.Yahoo under Mayer has largely concentrated its efforts and investments in its home market of the U.S.. It also has spun off its $40 billion stakeBut while there have been notable closures and layoffs in Asia, it looks like there will be investment in other places. Mayer noted today that Taiwan and Hong Kong remain strong markets for Yahoo at the moment, and could be ripe ground for expansions of some of its newer acquisitions.We see an opportuniyto take our new acquisitions like Tumblr, Flurry, and Brightroll into these markets, she said. Were looking at how can we take those investments and use them to help achieve the footprint we want internationally.