Yahoo has officially announced Livetext, an app where users chat with friends by sharing video and text  but no sound.A couple of weeks ago, we spotted the Livetext app in the Apple App Store in Hong Kong. At the time, Yahoo declined to comment, except to say that its always experimenting with new product experiences.The company demonstrated the app at a press event in New York City today. During the demo, Senior Director of Product Management Arjun Sethi started live messaging sessions with several friends and co-workers. They shared video footage with each other, making faces and showing off their surroundings. Then they started texting  the content was similar to many other text conversations, with random comments, questions and emojis, but superimposed on avideo.In order to connect with others on Livetext, both users have to agree to become friends with each other. Once youre connected, one of you can ask to start a Livetext session, then the video starts once the other user joins. (If your friend wants to Livetext and youre not available to join till later, youll get each others text messages but no video.)Livetext sessions are currently one-on-one, and while Sethi said hes not ruling out the possibility of adding group sessions in the future, it doesnt look like thats a priority.Taking away the sound has some novelty, but what does it actually add to the experience? Adam Cahan, Yahoos senior director of video, design and emerging products, said that in the companys research, it found that people were hesitant to use video messaging because it feels like you need to make an appointment.So without audio, Cahan said the experience becomes simpler, with less stress  youre more likely to start a quick video session even if youre in the middle of something else, and even if theres a lot of background noise. He compared it to text messaging, but with the additional emotional context (like actually laughing on screen rather than typing LOL). He added that even though that theres no time limit on the conversations, Yahoo found that among early users, theres a tendency towards high burst, high frequency, shorter conversations.Asked whether Yahoo sees this as a competitor to Snapchat, he said, I dont think so, because people use lots of communication tools. If anything, he said this could take the place of regular texting.As for making money, Cahan said, Once you get to scale, there are opportunities to monetize  Yahoo plans to focusing on the opportunities that are native to the platform.Yahoo plans to release the app on both iOS and Android tomorrow. Youcan already see the iTunes page here.You can read more in this Yahoo blog post.Im also hoping to post some video of the app in action later today.