Captain401, a service that helps small businesses set up a 401k, is launching out of Y Combinator today.The goal of Captain401 is to make managing 401ks as simple as other services arefor other functions within companies  and in a more digitally focused manner like Zenefits or Zenpayroll.Captain401 seeks to create a process that avoids funds that have higher fees and fail to beat the market, CEO Roger Lee said. The investing service is automated, helping employees make better decisions about their investments and become more educated about the best choices, he said.Incumbents likeADP, John Hancock, they require tons of paperwork, snail mailing, filling out and signing, he said. Some companies like Fidelity dontwork with small businesses. We think we can do a lot better there, our solution is online and paperless. It takes companies 10 minutes to set up their plan, we automate the ongoing administration. For the employees its that education and investment experience where the existing 401k companiesleave employeesto figure out what to do on their own.401ks are important to set up early for a number of reasons, if onlyis to show that employers care about the future of their employees. Leehad previously run a startup where his employees were asking about a 401k. Leewanted to set one up, but the whole process was slow and outdated. Institutions, for example, still required stacks of paperwork that required signatures and had to be mailed and faxed in.It seemedlike a hassle, it took way longer, and we thought we could do a lot better with more modern tech, he said. I personally over the years helped more than a 100 friends and familylook at their 401ks and help with their investments, and realized withoutfail that each was sub-optimally allocated. They didnt know how to choose their investments. We wanted to bring a Wealthfront into the 401k space.The 401k is tied to dozens of Vanguard index funds, which Leesays ultimately leads to higher performance than other funds. Thats the approach that people like Warren Buffet, economists [consider], its the best approach for employeesand get to the most returns.Captain401 came outof this years summer Y Combinator class. Interestingly enough, Y Combinator will be a customer ofCaptain401.Any step closer to a world where employees can get better investment options in their plan and they can diversify and get a suitable investment strategy that makes sense for them and their personal situation, that can just be so much better and help them so much more than the go it alone approach, Lee said. Obviously theres a lot of work to do here.