Im a fan of all different sorts of rocks. Rock music. Rock gardens. Dwayne The Rock Johnson.But theres one type of rock that I  and most other drivers, I imagine  hate with a deep, fiery passion: rocks that hit my cars windshield at 70 mph.Few things so small can wreck your day so suddenly. Everything is going great. The sun is shining. Hell, you probably even have time to grab some coffee before your meeting with  *BAM!*, youve got a 2-inch scar streaking across your once flawless glass.Neverfrost, a YC-backed company that has been working away quietly up in Waterloo for the past few years, wants to beef up your windshields ability to handle the stray rocks that may come its way  and while theyre at it, they want to end windshield frosting and help drivers save fuel by keeping their cars interior cooler.Neverfrost began its life in the University of Waterloos Nanotechnology Engineering program, where it was initially a fourth-year design project for the companys founders, Khanjan Desai and Chong Shen.Heres what Neverfrost is claiming its film can do:(Note that these stats are from the companys tests, and are not something I was able to personally test. Once the film approaches commercial availability, Ill happily fire some rocks at my cars windshield in the name of science.)So how does it work? While the company doesnt reveal every ingredient in its secret sauce, they explain the product as nano-composites sandwiched in a single 100-micrometer-thick film.Wondering how can you get Neverfrost for your windshield?For now at least, you cant. It has to be professionally applied by an authorized dealer, and theyre primarily working with trucking fleets in California and Ontario for now  because no one knows the pain of a chipped/frosted windshield like the folks who drive across the country all-day-every-day for a living.That said, the company tells me that ithopes the product will be available commercially to consumers by next fall. Interested parties can sign up for more details here.One interesting thing to note about the company: unlike many (most?) YC-backed companies, Neverfrost isnt planning to make Silicon Valley its home any time soon. Itneeds to be somewhere cold to test and iterate on their product, and the Valley isnt exactly known for its snowfall.