If the rise of anonymous apps hasproven anything, its that humans can beugly creatures when thesocial pressures that keep our baser natures in check are removed, and were allowed to share our darker sentiments and thoughts  sometimes, for nothing more than the cheap thrill of knowingtheyve caused others outrage. Case in point: Yik Yak, the latest app to take advantage of the powerful draw of anonymous postings as a means to quick growth  but whose wild west atmosphere has led to the app being banned on several college campuses around the U.S. in recent months.It appears, however, that colleges arent the only ones that have an issue with Yik Yak. The app, as it turns out, has been delisted on Google Play since October 2014. That means that Android users can only surface the app via search, not by spotting it in the storestop charts.Before the apparent delisting on Google Play, Yik Yak was ranked #13 in the Social category on Googles Android app store, and a decent enough #149 Overall.The following day, the app was just gone from the charts entirely. It was unranked. (See below)A chart from App Annie shows this event, and weve confirmed with the company the datais accurate. For an app to disappear from App Annies rankings, it has to be ranked lower than #1,500. Its unheard of for a popularsocial app like Yik Yak to go from riding the top of the app storeto dropping off like this without some sort of intervention.While a mobile developer is able to delist their own app, that would make the app unavailable via search, too. For Yik Yakto be discoverable by search, as it currently is, that means Google had to be involved in itsdelisting.Possibly, Google took this actiondue toYik Yaks violation of Googleshate speech clause in its developer guidelines.According to Googles Developer Program Policies, the company doesntallow content advocating against groups of people based on their race or ethnic origin, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, or sexual orientation/gender identity.So why is the app live at all, given this rule? Perhapsbecause Google doesnt want to go so far as to remove the popular application from its store  especially since Apple hasnt done the same, despite often having stricter policies. (Neither Google nor Yik Yak would comment.).Yik Yak, we should note, has declined some on iOS  it sharply dropped in its Overall rankings since last fall where it had maintained a steady position in the top 10 or 20 or sometimes 30.GigaOm also previously noted this declineoccurred shortly after its funding.But Yik Yak isstill listed as #20 in Social and #162 Overall, as of yesterday. That means that Apple hasnt delisted the app on its store, and may be, in part, the reason for Googles hesitation to ban Yik Yakoutright. Or Googlecould be waiting to see if Yik Yaks new tools for moderating its content begin to work at some point.Yik Yaks story and the controversies surrounding its content is not a new one.The app, like Ask.fm before it, and in the webs earlier days, MySpace, has been pointed to as a source of online bullying and harassment. The results of such bullying can have devastating consequences in younger users, as Ask.fm found out when its largely middle-to-high schoolaudience became afflicted by a fairly significant numberof teen suicides.To its credit, Yik Yak attempted to stem the usage of its app by thisyounger demographic, even proactively implementing geofences to block the app on school campuses around the U.S. last spring.Its reasoning? Yik Yak was meant for adults, and themisuse bykids had besmirched its reputation with parents, teachers and otherofficials, leading schools to ban the app at a number of locations around the country.Unfortunately, it turns out that adults arent much better when it comes to keeping it civilized whilehiding behind anonymous accounts.The app more recently hasbeen banned at a growing number of college campuses, including Eastern Michigan, Utica College in New York, Vermonts Norwich University, and others. Elsewhere, universities are dealing with calls to ban the app from their student populations, and are now choosing how to respond.In some cases, Yik Yakhas been used to issue threats of mass violence, like atUniversity of North Carolina, Michigan State University, University of Georgia, Towson University, and Penn State.And an even larger number of schools are dealing with controversies related to hate speech and other offensiveyaks on the service, including one where a poster threatened gang rape. Schools includingClemson, Emory, Colgate, the University of Texas,Kenyon College, and Miami Universityhave been asked by students to ban Yik Yak, though in many cases, the universitieshave notacted on those requests.In other cases, schools are aware of the abuses taking place, but are choosing not to take action. For example,Duke, has said it will not ban Yik Yak, as it does not support censorship of any kind.In Dukes student-run publication The Chronicle,Dean of Students Sue Wasiolek explained that the university cant really do anything to prevent harmful content from being spread on forums like Yik Yak, because as soon as one is shut down, another pops up in its place.The university has dealt with this problem in the past, when a former Duke student created online gossip forum JuicyCampus. Another forum, CollegiateACB later took its place after JuicyCampus was shut downdue to cyberbullying, and then it, too, was closed in 2014 following negative media attention, the paper noted. (JuicyCampus founder Matt Ivester recently told The NYT that when JuicyCampus was booming the world didnt know the term cyberbullying, but the Yik Yak guys should know better by now.)In addition the campus controversies, thereare also petitions being organized online asking Google and Apple to remove the app from their respective app stores, calling the appa gateway that allows people to be cruel to one another.While there are those whomay argue that banning the app is an affront to free speech, its not quite that simple. Some of the content on the appis harmful, and not protected by the First Amendment, but other content is just silly, fun, or even useful. A blanket ban that censors the entire app, then, is overkill.At Yik Yak, the company reports having filtering mechanisms in place and a round-the-clock team of moderators who review posts, so its not as if theyre unaware of the problems the app faces. Its just, perhaps, that these systems are not good enough or fast enough yet, to reviewposts from the apps millions of users.Given how long Yik Yak has been unranked on Google Play, its unclear if or when it will return to the app stores charts. Its also unclear to what extent that will affect the apps longer term growth  after all, the app has largely grown through word-of-mouth referrals, meaning college students and others are seeking it out, not just happening upon it.