Japanese mobile messaging app Line has turned to keyboard apps as it looks to grow its presencein the U.S. and other parts of the world outside of Asia.The company, which counts 205 million monthly active users, todayintroduced Emoji Keyboard, an iOS app that brings more than 3,000 different stickers and emoji right into your keyboard. Theres no word at this point on when it will come to Android.Interestingly  and this is telling of Lines strategy  the app is available worldwide with the exception of three countries: Japan, Taiwan and Thailand  three markets that account for over half of Lines active user base.So the aim is pretty clear, provide a service that can bring new users into Lines messaging and app ecosystem  which includes photo apps, utilities apps, games and more independently of its chat service.This isnt a new strategy for the company  earlier this month it introduced a group calling app that lets up to 200 users chat at once  but a sticker and emoji keyboard has a decent change of drawing an audience in markets like the U.S. and Europe, where Lines messaging service has failed to make a dent.Weve already seen a number of sticker-based apps and services rises up  just lastmonth Fleksy integratedImojis sticker sets into its popular iOS and Android keyboard apps and its becoming an interesting space, particularly in the U.S.. Thats because a number of different messaging apps have won outStateside  Snapchat, Facebook Messenger and Kik, for example  while Apples large marketshare (around 50 percent, compared to minority shares in Asia) has meant iMessageremains a popular way to communicate.That fragmented U.S. messaging market makes it tough for an outsider to developa sizable audience for a newapp, particularly given that most U.S. residents still use SMS. Akeyboard app, on the other hand, is present across all messaging apps and services. That makes it an interesting mediumto gain prominence (and take up precious real estate) inside a users device and their daily activity.Lines keyboard app initially includes free stickers only, but users can add paid onesif they download the main Line app and buy them from the store. (Line was making $10 million per month from stickers back in 2013, so you can bet that figure has increased, but it is still only a fraction of the revenue it draws from games and other items.)As for the app itself. It works just like Imoji and other sticker rivals. Most services in your phone, such as iMessage, will require you to copy and paste each sticker into a message bubble. So its less convenient than Lines own app  which include an amazing feature that selects stickers as you type  but, if youre not in a Line country, then youre more likely to download a cute keyboard app than a chatapp that none of your friends use.If theres one catch to this app, and other third-party keyboards, its the rather worrying message that pops up once you grant full access to the keyboard. Thats a necessary part of the process if you want a fancy keyboard, but in this day and age I wonder how wary people willtrust thirdpartieswiththeirdata in exchangefor a few flashy, smiley faces?