Ubiomeis an unusual startup.Thethree-year-old sequences the collected microbes in the human body and sells $89 kits to those curious tounderstand their own microbiome better.Now uBiome founders and academics Jessica Richman and Zachary Apte  whove raised $6.5 million from investors like Andreessen Horowitz for the San Francisco company are taking an even more unusual step. Theyrelaunchingan AngelList Syndicate to fund other microbiome startups.Its not an entirely novel concept. There are plenty of corporations that createfunds expressly to get a look at startups whose work might be of strategic interest to them.There are also a sprinkling of founderswho are running early-stage startups and forming Syndicates to make startup bets of their own, including Joshua Reeves of four-year-old Gusto, a payroll startup that was formerly called ZenPayroll.Still, investing in young startups that could eventually compete with your own young startup isnt something one sees every day;we talked earlier with Richman to learn more about her Microbiome Fund  and why she and Apte decided to do it.TC: Understanding of therole played by the microbiome in many health conditions is relatively recent andyou have a very young company,Why shift some of your focus to investing in other startups?JR:Weve heard from a lot investors, including angels, whove wondered what other companies they should invest in other than us. Were also heard a lot of interest from [microbiome] companies that are curious about investors. We want to help, with what we thinkisthe first microbiome fund ever.TC: Are uBiomes investors at all concernedthat this Syndicate might become a distraction for you both?JR:A Syndicate just means that you list an investment. You dont have to do any work at all. If you have certain expertise, you [publish a little information about what that is], you push a button and thats it. Its prettyamazing.TC: Playing devils advocate, what about conflicts of interest? Can you promise investors youll be backing the best microbiome startups if youre simultaneously worrying about competitors?JR: Well look at investments that will becomplementary to what we do. There are a number of companies in the therapeutic space, but in the microbiome diagnostics space, we dont really have a direct competitor. Were the leader.TC:Entrepreneur Dave Morin has said he will back you. How much are you looking to raise, andwhat is the minimum investment?JR: Were planning to keep it open. The minimum investment is $5,000. Itll will be open to any accredited investors who are interested in the microbiome. Well see what happens. Its a very new field. But we think there will be a lot of interest.TC: Youre launching this today. Dohave your sights set on particular startups or technologies?JR:We do have some [startups] that have been talking with us. Well get together the team of angels, then go back to some of the opportunities that weve seen and see if theyre a good fit.TC: What about uBiome itself? You raised your last round 14 months ago. Are you talking again with investors?JR:We are talking about a Series B round and starting to look into that.Update: The original version of this story mistakenly stated that uBiome was launching the microbiome fund. It is a separate effort from Richman and Apte.