For the fifth year in a row, biz school professors Yael Hochbergof Rice University and Susan Cohenof the University of Richmond have ranked the many accelerator programs now up and running in the U.S. as a way of helping making sense of which are worth the time, effort, and, often, equity that founders give them.Its no small undertaking. According to their findings, there are currently 160 accelerators in operation, representing year-over-year growth ofaround 50 percent dating back to 2005, when pioneer Y Combinator first came on the scene.Some have come and gone. In fact,many outfits dont survive more than a couple of years. Yet there are often upstarts to replace them, a growing number of which are corporate programs. (Research from Hochberg and Cohen show that 26 such corporate accelerator programs sprung uplast year, compared with one or two back in 2011.)You can see above which programs rank most highly overall. We talked with the professorsyesterday to find outhow they ranked everyone, andwhat the difference betweenplatinum, gold, and silver really means.TC: Explain the methodology you used to collect and sort data about all of these accelerator programs  and why they give it to you.YH:They give us information about every company and every round about their graduates dating one-, two- and three-years out [from their current cohorts], which is a granularity [of information] that you cant get elsewhere. And theyre willing to give it to us because we dont do anything commercial with it. We just do this as a service to the community.Once theyve shared the data which they do confidentially;we sign non-disclosure agreements  we can benchmark them against other acceleratorswhether or not they [are ranked at or near the top of the heap]. The benefit for them is knowing theyll at least get back data thats useful to them.Full disclosure this year we supplemented our prior years YC data with publicly available data. We didnt get a spreadsheet from them this year. They have told us that they prefer to be considered a seed fund and not to be called an accelerator. But technically they meet our definition and if we didnt include themwhich was the case last year by their requestit would be. . .odd.TC: Once you have that information, howdo you rank everyone?SC: We talk with graduates who provide qualitative information about each program, either positive or negative, to understand the relationships that accelerators have with their alumni and to assign them a net promoter score. We also create a total index score to get to a composite number based on five categories:valuation, fundraising, exits, survival, and satisfaction.TC: Youve previous ranked accelerators numerically.Now youve moved to a system where youre clustering them intobuckets like platinum and gold instead. Why?YH: Because TechStars and 500 Startups [and their ilk] are great programs and they arent statistically different. What were finding instead is its very hard to distinguish [between them] because their results are similar.TC: Has anyone either fallen out of the top rankingsor made so much progress that it surprised either of you? SC: Some programs here that havebeen featured over time have been consistently in the top of the rankings. Plug and Play [of Redwood City, Ca.] is a new entrant; it hadnt given us data in the past.HealthBox is also new.TC: Is there a big difference between silver and bronze and gold?SC: Theres a bigger difference between bronze and silver than there is between gold and silver. Achieving gold is something to be proud of. But these are all top, top, and top programs, not top, middle, and bottom programs.TC: Do you think there are too many accelerator programs out there?YH: Yes. Were at the point where were past saturation. A lot of small independent accelerators that have popped up, and weexpect that many will disappear in a couple of years. You really have to figure out a good financial model.I think even the most successful [accelerators] are still figuring it out.SC: Thenumber of what wed call private or independent accelerators alreadyseems to be slowing. Youre seeing some consolidation in the industry, which isnt surprising. But were seeing more and more corporate accelerators opening, which has been interesting. TechStars run a lot of corporate accelerators, for example. Everyone is taking a different tack.TC: This seems like a lot of work. Will you ever look to monetize your research?YH: Weve never had any kind of monetization in mind. We collect data under blanket non-disclosure agreementsand we get [that data] becausewe keep itconfidential. The payoff for us is knowing what to tell our students when they ask us about these programs.SC: If we were better entrepreneurs, maybe we wouldnt be academics. [Laughs.]