Does the idea of transforming vegetables into noodles sound weird but kind of appetizing? Well, thats what a startup called Hungryroot is offering, and now its expanding.The company launched earlier this year with operations in New Yorks Long Island City. Co-founder and CEO Ben McKean told me Hungryroot recently opened a similar facility in San Francisco  so it can deliver meals to customers on both the East and West Coasts. (Heres a full map of its coverage.) Its also making meals available through the Amazon Fresh and FreshDirect delivery services.McKean, who sold his previous startup Savored to Groupon, told me that his goal is to create interesting alternatives to the frozen food aisle or the canned food aisle. In other words, its meant to be less competitive with an ingredient delivery service like Plated or Blue Apron, and more with the microwave meals or cans of soup that you reach for when you dont have time to cook something for real.The key to the Hungryroot approach, McKean said, is to shorten the supply chain  for example, eliminating the distribution warehouse where food often sits for several days before being delivered to grocery stores. That, in turn, means that the company can deliver fresh, healthy food that will still have 14 days of shelf life. At the same time, McKean said he isnt justinterested in selling direct to consumers.Sure,the company probably cant sell its food through traditional grocery stores, at least not without sacrificing those supply efficiencies and therefore reducethe shelf life. But it can work with online partners like Amazon Fresh and FreshDirect to reach more consumers. (Hungryroot is currently sold out on FreshDirect.)A lot of people confuse us with a meal delivery service, but this is one of the things that shows were planning on taking a distributed model, he said.The company is also expanding into other food categories, starting with sweets and desserts. Again, the idea is to createfood that tastes good but uses healthier ingredients  for example a cookie dough thats made out of chickpeas and sweet potatoes.