Theres a big shuffle happening atZenefits today  with Zenefits CEO Parker Conrad exiting the company and COO David Sacks taking over. Conrad is also stepping down as a director of the company.In an email to employees, Sacks noted that compliance issues that have plagued the company contributed to Conrads exit. Zenefits has hit significant turbulence, including missing revenue targets according to a Wall Street Journal report, and also running into issues with regulators.I believe that Zenefits has a great future ahead, but only if we do the right things. We sell insurance in ahighly regulated industry, Sacks wrote in an email to employees. In order to do that, we must be properly licensed. For us, compliance is likeoxygen. Without it, we die.The fact is that many of our internal processes, controls, and actions around compliance have beeninadequate, and some decisions have just been plain wrong. As a result, Parker has resigned.Zenefits has also added three new board members: Valor Equity Partners managing partner Antonio Gracias; TPG managing partner Bill McGlashan; and PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel.Regulatory issues have plagued the company, as has been reported by BuzzFeed. Zenefits allowed unlicensed brokers to sell health insurance, leading to at least one commissioner to investigate the company in Washington State, according to a BuzzFeed report. Most recently, BuzzFeed reported 80 percent of the companys deals in Washington State were done by unlicensed brokers.David is a strong leader who will take Zenefits to the next stage of development, as it evolvesfrom a startup to a large-scale national leader, Conrad said in a statement. I am immensely proud of theorganization we have built and the industrywide impact weve had but recognize that ourcompanys management infrastructure and policies havent kept pace with our meteoric growth.Elevating a strong management hand with successful experience and impeccable credentials iswithout a doubt in the best interests of the company at this time.The company also appointedJosh Stein, a former federal prosecutor and a VP of Legal, asChief Compliance Officer. Stein will continue to oversee a review that Zenefits began last year to assess the companys operations related to broker licensing and compliance, the company said.Sacks, the former CEO of Yammer, is now in charge of another billion-plus-dollar company (with his last company selling to Microsoft for $1.2 billion).Zenefits previously raised $500 million at a $4.5 billion valuation largely on its highly aggressive revenue projections.In order to be a great company, integrity must be at the core of what we do.We must have integrity inour business practices, compliance obligations and internal processes, Sacks wrote. We must have integrity in ourproduct. We must have integrity in our data and infrastructure. And we must have integrity in the waywe treat each other.