Zomato, the restaurant discovery site that acquired U.S. rival Urbanspoon last month, is expanding its business into food orders, starting inits home market of India next month.The company plans to launch anew service letting customers across India order food directly from its platformon March 16 with an initial 2,000 restaurant partners. Zomato CEO and co-founderDeepinder Goyal told TechCrunch that he expects to reach 10,000 supported restaurants nationwide within a few months ofthe services debut.We have a sales team of around300 in India and 5,000-odd advertisers these partnersknow the volume we bring to them so it is quite easy for us to launchthis [new service], he said.Zomato is currently testing the serviceamongits 500 staff in India and a handful of restaurants. TheGurgaon-based companyhas raised over $110 million to date  including a recent $60 million round  largely to fuel an acquisition-led international expansion, and$50 million has been allocated to develop its food delivery businessin India.Theres no immediate plan to expand food deliveryto the 21 other countries where Zomato is present, but Goyal said we can expect an aggressive roll out in other markets where we are strong once theservice is established in India. Indonesia, Australia and Dubai are likely to be among the first ports of call when the time comes, he added.Unliketraditional food on-demand services, Zomato is adopting a system that is very much like Uber. Thats to say that a restaurant has to actually manually accept each order from a Zomato user before it is processed. Thats opposed tosimply passing confirmed orders from users over to restaurants as other services do.Goyal said the company is providing iPads to restaurants, each of whichis fitted with an app that essentially turns the deviceinto an order hotline from Zomato. Interestingly, Goyal added that Zomato customers mustprovide a rating for each delivery experience  if they forget, theywill be prompted to rate their last delivery beforeplacinga new order. That rating will be displayed within the restaurants Zomato profile, alongside its order acceptancerate, to give users some guidance on a restaurants reliability before they order.Zomato plans to make money from this new service via cut of each order, but the exact size of itsfee will be based on feedback from customers directly. In the case of a five-star rating, Zomato will take a7.5 percent commission fee, but that cut will rise to a maximum of 15 percent for the lowest customer feedback.This is not the first time that Zomato has branched intoservices beyond just search  it is currently piloting an in-restaurant payment system in Dubai  nor will it be the last.We believe that oursearch business is our ticket to play to all the other [food-related] businesses that we will create, Goyal told TechCrunch.Beyond restaurant discovery, food on-demand and payments, Zomato is also considering the table reservation space and tackling the point-of-sale industry, the latter of which could allowusers to order dishes from a table in a restaurant viathe Zomato app.Over time, we want to be the communication layer between the restaurant and the user, Goyal explained.The food industry is a tricky one to enter for a number of reasons, including fierce competition, outdated I.T. systems, a dependence on offline channels, and more. But Goyal sees opportunities for the taking.We just started with food and we found out that there is massive unexplored depth in the market.In our early days, we thought we should get into other verticals, but over time, we figured that restaurants/food are going to be much bigger than probably any other vertical. And nobody has executed well in this space yet, so thats what we are trying to do now, he said.As for competition from rivals  including Rocket Internet, which last weekcreated a globalfood delivery groupwhich includes its Just Eat business in India  the Zomato chief doesnt appear to be losing much sleep.[Rivals] dontmatter a lot, none of these players have scale yet so it doesnt worry us. When we buy into markets we pick the leader [Rocket Internet]buys for entry, but we buy forscale, he said.Note: Article updated to reflect that Zomato is present in 22 global markets not 32.