Editors note: James Altucher is an investor, programmer, author, and several-times entrepreneur. You can find him  @jaltucher  or his latest book is Choose Yourself Guide To WealthI used to love my job. Love it. I worked for my favorite entertainment company in the world.I wouldve paid to work there.I made friends at work. And on weekends wed even get together and play poker. Sometimes wed even travel on vacations together.My boss would yell at me but I could ignore him.So I forgive you.I loved the work I was doing. What could be better than being paid to interview prostitutes and drug dealers at three in the morning in the sleaziest most dangerous parts of New York City.I was chased once with a knife. I once had a bottle thrown at me. I had guards at transvestite clubs chase me. And I had a lot of fun! All for money.I will tell you what is better than that, because I cant be so arrogant to think that nothing is better than that.Walking on the moon is better than that. And maybe being a clown in a large circus. Or a famous street magician.But not much else.I always write about ten reasons to quit your job. Of course I still believe that. You should quit your job.But maybe not today. Not everything is black and white.For instance, when I daytraded for a living, many years later, there were some days when I would go to work and LOSE money.WHOAH!Sometimes in the morning I was so afraid to lose more money Id go to the Catholic Church across the street and pray to Jesus that Nasdaq futures would go up in the morning. Im Jewish so it never worked.That never happens at a job. At a job you go into work and they send you a check every two weeks. Thats real magic.A lot of times people think the alternative of a job is to be an entrepreneur. Thats not true either.An entrepreneur is someone who has a job, but its a job he made up all by himself. He woke up one day and said, Im going to make an app to connect all left-handed people on a dating site.And then he raised money, hired people, made an app, tried to sell the app.An entrepreneur has a job also. But heres the difference. In a regular job you can probably get by (maybe unhappily but still get by) forever.But an entrepreneur has a job where theres a well known 85% chance rate of failure.Which would you rather take?I dont want people to stay at a job. But heres several good things about having a job. We cant ignore them.Heres several things to think about it. And I finish with the alternative.A) Steady paycheck.It might go down over time and you might get fired suddenly but for awhile, at least, its steady.B) Sex.A lot of people have sex with people they work with. Thats a really great thing until it isnt.C) Chance of promotion.I dont know if promotion is good or bad. But for about a day or two you think, they like me! They really really like me!D) Fake money.If you rise really high at your job then its as if the entire company is your fake bank account. They pay for your travel, your computers, many of your dinners. They might even pay for some of your friends.E) Respect!If you become the CEO of your job then people will respect you. Its not easy to be the CEO of a big company. To be CEO of a big company I will tell you what you have to do:F) You Can Afford to Have an Evil Plan.When I had a job I started a company on the side. I was also trying to pitch TV shows on the side. I was doing lots of things on the side.I was a hustler.My bosses didnt mind because I was overpromising and overdelivering.I started a company in 1996. My new company took me eight hours a day at least.But it wasnt until August, 1997 that I left my fulltime job to join my new company.18 months.Why did it take so long?Because thats how life works. You dont start something and suddenly everything changes.You start something, make sure its right, test the waters, build up, get rid of all the risks, and then make the jump.Being an entrepreneur is NOT about taking risk, its about ELIMINATING all risk.Being an entrepreneur, or having multiple sources of income is ultimately safer than having a job.But only if you use the job to get rid of, one by one, all the risks.Just being an entrepreneur, without having multiple sources of income, without first taking care of the risks, is suicide.G) Be an Entre-ployee.Maybe you like the people you work with and you like what you are doing. I wish I were you.At a job you can do something that you cant do elsewhere. You can LINK your financial success (or other kinds of success) to the success of the larger company.If you can figure out how to do this, then you can stay at your job forever and watch it grow.If you cant figure out how to do this then you MUST QUIT. But only when eliminating risks.I was always trying to figure out how to convince HBO to spin off new divisions or companies that maybe I could help run. It never worked out. Nobody listened to me. But I tried.A great example is the world famous Craig Silverstein. Oh wait! You dont know him? Hes a low-level programmer at the Khan Academy.But before that he was the first employee ever at Google. And now hes a billionaire.His success was totally tied to the success of Google. Google is a search engine on the world wide web.H) Summers are Off.The first summer I was at a full time job it was really heaven. Most of management basically took off the summer.Deadlines on all of our projects slowed down. My work was right by a park so Id sit in the park all day and play chess.When youre an entrepreneur you dont have summers off. You dont even have three in the morning off. Id wake up at three in the morning and try to calculate out how I was going to make payroll for the next six months.It was really painful.I) You Get to Switch Jobs.The average American employee stays at their job for 3 years. This number is getting smaller and smaller.People move around jobs. Get lots of experiences. Meet lots of people. Make more and more money (hopefully).And then, when they have enough contacts and experiences they can set themselves up in a situations where they have multiple streams of income.Maybe this means they start doing speaking gigs. Based on all of their work experiences and knowledge in an industry. Maybe it means they consult.Maybe it means they learn new skills and now start using those skills to help other people.Because if they have a steady paycheck they can build these side gigs over time and eventually start charging. Thats what I did TWICE. Thats what I would do today.Dont jump over the cliff. Have ropes and safety gear.It doesnt mean start a company. Then you are just going from one company to another.But they start generating a lot more money from many different sources and if any one source is cut off then its not the end of the world.Its just an opportunity to replace that one source of money with an even bigger source.  I write a lot about reasons to quit your job. I write a lot about how life can be better elsewhere. But life is always better elsewhere. Were nomadic mammals.Also, many jobs are bad. The worst thing about a job is your boss. Then your co-workers. Then your pay. Then your work. Then the fact that one person can say words that turn your life upside down: youre fired.So get yourself in a situation with more of the attributes I describe in the ten reasons above.Then its up to YOU to decide the right time to quit. Its no longer up to a mysterious Them.The important thing to remember is this:Jobs as our parents knew it are dead. Income has gone down versus inflation for 40 years. People are being demoted and spending less years at a job.View a job as just one source of income among many.Build up your sources of income. Be creative. Write a blog. Do consulting on the side. Get more skills. Do speaking. Be an entre-ployee.Then suddenly you wont have just a job. You wont be an entrepreneur. You wont have any label attached to your money.Have your evil plan. Do it in secret. Work on it a little bit each day. 1% a day.Stay calm. Dont be impatient or entitled.Then youll be your own person. Nobody will be your boss. There wont be a ceiling when its finally time to spread your wings and fly into the sky.