This week, Tesla unveiled a brand-new model, Oculus Rift shipped and Snapchat saw a major upgrade. These are this weeks top tech stories you dont want to miss.1.The Tesla Model 3 has been unveiled. The base model starts at $35,000, and it does 0-60 in under 6 seconds. Over 150,000 people have already pre-ordered it.2.Microsoft held its Build conference this week.The most notable announcement was that Microsoft is bringing the Bash shell to Windows. You can find everything we wrote about Build here.3.Lucas Matney wrote a full review of the Oculus Rift. Simply put: its amazing, but you probably shouldnt buy one yet. Josh Constine also wrote a feature about 5 hard questions facing Oculus Rift.4.Connie Loizos tookan in-depth look at Tony Fadell, asking if he is in Nests way.As Loizos explains, Fadellcouldnt be further apart fromGoogles CEO Sundar Pichai.5.Snapchatupgraded everything on its platform this week. With Chat 2.0, Snapchat has seamlessly combinedvideo, audio, GIFs, and stickers. As Josh Constine puts it, Snapchat serves as a phone. You can also see us run through all the new features in this Facebook Live video.6. Spotify is doing whatever it takes to compete with Apple Music, and this week they raised$1 billion in debtwith devilish terms. If Spotify doesnt perform well, itcould cost the companya lot of money.7. The FBIis full of shit. They just unlocked another phone. Jon Evans dove into the encryption debate with a follow-up piece This war on math is still bullshit.8. ContributorSephi Shapirawrote about the connected fridge, and how having a smart refrigeratorin the household could change our buying and consumption habits.9. Matt Joseph, aY Combinator-backed startup founder, went onan epic tweet storm ahead of demo day about anelephant room  racism and raising money as a black founder. Post tweetstorm and demo day, he is now receiving funding for e-commerce startup Locent.10. Remember the epic, 18-minute recording of a mansattempt to cancel his Comcast service that went viral a couple years back?A new bill were dubbing Ryans Law would allow you to cancel Comcast online with one click. Because lets be real. If you sign up online, you should be able to cancel online.11. Last week, Instagram announced it was going to be changing its algorithm. Naturally, everyone freaked out. Brands and professional Instagrammers asked followersto turn on post notifications for their pages. But the truth is, the algorithm is going to force us to compete.If posts dont perform well, Instagram wont show them.