This week, top tech companies reported earnings, Twitter took away our backgrounds and we saw headlines about Uber, Tesla, and more. Here at TechCrunch HQ, we launched our newest and first ever talk show Bullish, with Alex Wilhelm.1.Apple, GoPro, Yahoo, Microsoft, Verizon, PayPal, Amazon, Pandora, AT&T, Qualcomm and IBM reported earnings this week. Apple now has $202.8billion in cash on hand, but stock slipped 7.3% afterwards due tolackluster guidance. Amazon spiked 14% after reporting a better-than-expectedrevenue of $23.18 billion. Microsoft beat expectations, and Verizon was more profitable than expected despite falling short on revenue.Tech stocks continue to boom today.2.Josh Greenberg, the co-founder and CTO of the web-based music-streaming service Grooveshark, sadly passed away at 28 years old.3. After a struggle between Uber and the administration of NYC Mayor de Blasio that involved a City Hall protest, a big ad on The New York Times homepage and a feature criticizing de Blasio in the Uber app itself, the two parties reached a deal. Mayorde Blasio droppedplans to cap the number of new drivers added by Uber at least for now. Kim-Mai Cutler wrote about Uber, Airbnb, and the conflict between policys ratchet effect and techs accelerating speed.4. Palantir,the makers of a data analytics platformused by government agencies, law enforcement, and others, raised $450 million, valuing the company at $20 billion.5.Flipboard confirmed a new $50M funding round fromJP Morgan.6.In case Teslas Model S P85D Insane mode wasnt fastenough for you, the company introducedLudicrous mode, which will do 0-60 in 2.8 seconds. We also learned that the Roadster, the first car Tesla ever built, is set for arevival.7.In a slightly creepy reminder of how much data Google has on us, the Google Maps team launched a feature called Your Timeline that showsyou where you have beenwhile using the service.8.Microsoft launched Visual Studio 2015.9.In an unannounced move, Twitter took awaycustomized backgrounds usersadded in the design area of your settings. Could this be to make ads stand out more?10.Guest writer Aileen Lee wrote a stunning analysis of what we can learn from the 2015 unicorn club.11.Remember when Facebook turned down a billion dollar offer from Yahoo back in 2006? We took a trip down memory lane to call out the biggest tech deals that never were.Read the weekly roundup on Flipboard.