Welcome to 13 Questions, a series aimed at bringing a human face tonotable figures in the world of startups, hardware, and tech. Ever wonder how your favorite designer learned to love tech? Curious whats on your favorite VCs bucket list? Want to see the person behind the media hype? 13 Questions is here.This week, MakerBot founder and former CEO Bre Pettis talks about his upbringing and whathe regrets about his time at the helm. Hes now working at Bold Machines where he is designing the next generation of printable objects.No comment.MSDOS Games1973 Jeep CommandoMy parents had a software company making childrens software for the Apple II+, Commodore 64 and Acorn computers. They hired these teenagers to program the software and these guys were true hackers trying to get more colors and sound and animation out of those computers. They were my heroes and they helped me hack Wizardry by changing hex values so I could have infinite gold.My father was a ham radio geek and I remember the glow of the vacuum tubes from a Hammarlund receiver that became a hand-me-down to me. When I saw Star Wars at age 5, I remember thinking that R2-D2 sounded like ham radio static.While at The Evergreen State College I met Doranne Crable and she was so dynamic and adventurous that I decided on the spot to take whatever she taught. I ended up spending a few years studying Butoh dance and joining the dance troupe Kagami. Butoh is a post-apocalyptic Japanese art form that mostly involved shaving all my hair, painting my body white and drooling publicly. The physical and spiritual training is a touchstone in my life with a focus on being present while performing.I have a passion for old cars and so I read bringatrailer.com obsessively. I am almost smart enough to not own old cars.I dont think there is any one company that pushes the maker community forward, so I would say, Adafruit, Evil Mad Scientist and MakerBot because each of those companies, including the one that I led, is dedicated to providing their customers with the tools they need to innovate.I would also give a shoutout to Make: Magazine because they really helped get the whole thing off the ground and because that is where I was able to deeply indulge my obsession with making.I feel like Ive lived a life of making mistakes and learning from them and doing my best to only make each mistake once. Looking back, one regret I have from my time on the rocketship that was the MakerBot experience is I wish I had taken more time to spend with friends.My person who had the biggest influence on my life is really a community. When I was a teenager, things got rough at home and I figured out how to spend my summers at Bar-41 Dude Ranch and Summer Camp by working there. For all my teenage years, I would go there as soon as school got out and I would work. I did all sorts of work from dishwashing to groundskeeping and anything else. From the people at this camp I was empowered to explore who I am and build friendships. I rode horses a lot, mostly bareback which is a special kind of freedom. This experience of being on my own and among a community that was a mix of cowboys/cowgirls and people who truly believed that there was a bright future if we could all get along and appreciate differences was way more powerful than all my k-12 schooling combined.I look forward to relaxing in a driverless car.This spring Im going to start a small kitchen garden. Im looking forward to automating it.There are a few places Id like to revisit and live for 6 months to a year to explore life and get to know friends there better. Kobe, Japan. Berlin, Germany. Reykjavk, Iceland, and Taliin, Estonia.My favorite place in the world is the Orkney Isles in the North Sea of Scotland because Im a megalithic monument nerd, but its a little remote for me to think about living there.Next week we will have 13 questions for the one and only Mark Cuban. Do you know what he considers his first investment? You can find out then. (Hint: He was 10.)