It was a big week for Google, Elon Musk, and the UK Prime Minister. We took a look at Xiaomis new phablet and learned what a real teenager thinks of social apps. These were our best stories of the week (1/10-1/16).1.Kim-Mai Cutler wrote a long form piece about the history of East Palo Alto, and how the seemingly small policy choices surrounding the make-up of Silicon Valley have had enduring, multi-generational consequences on its inhabitants.2.Facebook launched Facebook At Work, a new service that aims tolet businesses create their own social networks amongst their employeesthat arebuilt to look and act like Facebook itself. Josh Constine also examined how Facebook At Work could shrink faceless enterprises.3.TechCrunch received a private document from 2013 which revealsPalantirs extensive trove of data analysis toolsand lists many of its key clients. Thanks to this leaked information, we now know far more about the secretive company.4.UK Prime Minister David Cameron made a speech calling forencryption to be banned on national security grounds, deeming himself an idiot in a time where European politicians have been calling for increasedsurveillance of online activity to combat terrorism,in the wake oflast weeks terror attacks in Paris.5.The Cyber Caliphate hacker group which claims association with terrorist group ISISseized control of the @CENTCOMTwitter and YouTube.6.It was a big week for Elon Musk, who announced a donation of $10 million tothe Future of Life Institute, as well as plans to build a Hyperloop track forultra-high speed transport tests.7.The Google Glass Explorer project shut down, and now exists as a standalone project headed byformer Apple executive and Nest founder Tony Fadell. Was Google Glass doomed from the start? Or will it relaunch with a comeback?8. Xiaomi released its newMi Note phablet, and we got to go hands on with the 5.7-inch screen device.9.Samsung released the Galaxy A7,a smartphone that packs an 8-core processor into a 5.5-inch phone.10.We got to meet Andrew Watts, the teenager whos Medium post about social media apps got over 500K page views, and welearned what a real teen actuallythinks of social apps.11.Disney research labs built a robot called Beachbot, that works by dragging a set of pins through the sand, sort of like a rake. Beachbotworks automatically, orcan be controlledmanually by an artist.12.Google Domains, Googles own domain name registration service, exited private testing and launched in the U.S. with support for Blogger integration, templates and more domain endings.13.Greg Kumparak wrote about a fake phone chargercalled the KeySweeper. It looks like a phone charger, but is really a spy device capable of sniffing out every key you type on that wireless keyboard on your desk.