After some of our staff spent the past week at CES, TechCrunch is backreporting the hottest tech stories. This week,the U.S. government got serious about self-driving cars, Apple rolled out new software betas, and we uncovered evidence that Facebookhas built a Messenger for Mac desktop app. These are our best stories.1.President Obama announced that theU.S. governmentis starting to work on a national policy for autonomous cars, and itspromising to invest $4 billion over the course of the next 10years to accelerate the development and adoption of safe vehicle automation through real-world pilot projects.2.Weobtained photographic evidence and an eyewitness report that Facebook has builtan as-yet-unreleased Facebook Messenger For Mac desktop app.3.The founder of Vine launched a new messaging app called Peach, and its pretty slick.Is it groundbreaking? No, but it looks and feelspretty fresh. Hype or not,try it out for yourself.4.GoPro stock dropped 24 percent after the company announced layoffs and disappointing Q4 guidance. Josh Constine wrote about the GoProblem, in that action cameras are like tablets: Lots of people want one, but very fewneed to constantly update to the latest model.5.Account sharing is kind ofa gray area in the world of online streaming. People are unsure if theyre breaking the rules, or even the law, if they log in using someone elses account information. At CES, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said that consumers sharing Netflix account information was a positive thing. Phew.6.The Tesla Model S can now drive without you. Teslareleased version 7.1 of its software for the Model S and X that includes aSummon feature that enables the car to drive itself without anyone inside.More specifically, using their key fob, Tesla owners can nowdirect their cars to park themselvesin a spot within 39 feet, and to drive themselves in and out oftheir parkinggarages.7.Uber loweredprices in over 100 U.S. and Canadian cities. January is a slower month for the car service, and the company says its reducing fares in order to increase demand.8.Apple rolled out new software betas for each of its platforms, including the desktop (El Capitan 10.11.4), mobile (iOS 9.3), Apple TV (tvOS 9.2) and Apple Watch (watchOS 2.2).9.Drew Olanoff reported that over 200,000 people have signed a digitalpetition to keep Apple from killing the iPhone headphone jack. Rumors have causedconfusion anda bit of an uproar from people who dont want to have to buy new headphones and hardware to go along with the next generation of Apples phone.10.We learned thatGoogle is doubling down on virtual reality, with its VP for product management, Clay Bavor, dropping his responsibilities for other apps like Gmail and Drive to focus solely on Cardboard and VR.11.Our new space reporter, Emily Calandrelli, wrote that SpaceX has confirmed itwill attempt another, more difficult, rocket landing on its next launch on January 17, and why the landing location has changed.12.Connie Loizos wrote about the 50 unicorns that are hiring the fastest (and the 50 that are losing the most employees).13.It was a big week for Skype. The company announced group calling on mobileandintegration with Outlook mobileand that italso rolled out on Slack.