Some of our staff spent the weekin Austin TX reporting on anti-robot protests and drones that shoot both fire and silly string. But the news cycle rolls onwithbig announcements from Facebook, Tesla and Nintendo.These are our best stories from this week (3/14-3/20).1.Facebook introduced free friend to friend payments through Messages. Josh Constine gives you the rundown. We also learned that Facebook is planning on turning Messenger into a platform.2.Amid its announcement that Windows 10 will go on sale this summer, Microsoft casually revealed that it is testing Windows 10 with power users of Xiaomis flagship Mi 4Android smartphone again showing the companysnew platform agnostic approach.3.Darrell gave us a video walkthrough explaining what its like to use the Force Touch trackpad on the new Retina MacBook Pro.4.Matt Burnswrote an open letter to the teacher who made his 7-year-old son sit out at career day. She did not believe that a game developer was a real job.5.Elon Musk announced an update tothe Model S Tesla: it will now run constant calculations on how far you are from a supercharger. This means thatIf you are about to drive too far from a supercharger to make it back to one, the car will warn you, thus ending range anxiety. Tesla also announced an autopilot mode to come, and can now resume car sales in New Jersey.6.Nintendo is finally bringing its games and characters to mobile after the company surprised the tech world withan alliance with Japanese mobile gaming firm DeNA. This is what we know so far.7.Livestreaming app Meerkat exemplifiedthe danger of building on someone elses platform  as Twitter acquired its competitor Periscope. Josh explained what Meerkat will do without Twitter. Jordan Crook also gave her take in The Weasel and the Woodpecker.8.Matthew Panzarino analyzed Meerkat, Snapchat and what livestreaming and video appsreally mean tousers in Empathy Machines.9.We learned that Pinterest raised $367 million dollars in itslatest round, andthe companysvaluation now sits at $11 billion.10.Yahoo introduced password-free login  just dont lose your phone.11.Matt Burns discovered a bookmarklet hack that brings God View to your Netflix user interface.12.Guest writer Dan Kaplan wrote about Facebook, Oculus and the future of virtual reality.13.Its been a year in the making, and Andreessen-Horowitz backed Leap busses hit the streets of San Francisco. These busses have plush interior seating, Wi-Fi, USB ports and bar stools for working on laptops  and they run on natural gas.