This week, announcements from Googles annual I/O developer conference dominated tech headlines. But Oracle and Google are back in court, Apple unveiled a new redesigned store in SF and we learned that Amazon may start selling its own groceries soon. These are the stories you dont want to miss.1.TechCrunchlive bloggedthe Google I/O keynote from the Shoreline Amphitheater event. But in case you dont have time to read through our play-by-play coverage, we rounded up the major announcements. Highlights included the unveiling of smart home speaker Google Home, two new apps called Allo and Duo, Android Instant Apps, Android VRs Daydream platform and headset concept and updates from Firebase.2. Apple announced a bombshell $1 billion investment into Chinas largest ride-hailing app, Didi Chuxing (formerly Didi Kuaidi).3.Oracle andGoogle continue to fight it out in a retrial over $9 billion that Oracleclaims Google owes it for using its Java code in Androids mobile platform. It allstartedback in 2010, when Oracle first sued Google over the companys use of 37 Java APIs in its Android OS. This time,the two companies are arguing over whether Googles coding falls under fair use.When Sun established Java, they established it as an open source thing, Alphabet CEO Larry Page said in a testimonial. We didnt pay for the free and open things.4. A reportfrom The Wall Street Journalclaimed thatAmazon will soon roll out its own private-label brands of common householditems like coffee, diapers and other perishablegroceries.5.Governor Doug Ducey of Arizonasigned SB 1350, a law thatprohibits cities from banning the listing and use of short-term rentalslikeAirbnb and HomeAway.6. Another big investor bought up about $1 billion in Apple shares: Warren Buffett. The Berkshire Hathaway holding companydisclosed in a regulatory filingthat it owns around 9.81 million shares of Apple  worth around $1.07billion at the end of the quarter as Apple shares have taken a huge dive in the past year.7. Uber had a few updates. The company announced it istestingself-driving cars in Pittsburgh, and debuted Trip Tracker, a feature that lets riders view family members rides in real time.8. A LinkedIn hack from back in 2012 is still causing problems for its users; 117 million LinkedIn emails and passwords were posted online in the most recent data dump from the hack.9. Coding school 42 announced plans to educate 10,000 Silicon Valley students for free.10. Lora Kolodny wrote about Dedrone, a company that just raised $10 million for asystem that monitors the skies and tells people when drones have entered their airspace.11. Leaked screenshots followedInstagrams former announcement thatanalytics are coming to the platform in the form of audience demographics, post impressions, reach and more.12. Brian Heater reviewed the Withings Go activity tracker, concluding that the device shows promise, but is mostly a non-starter.13. Crunch Network contributor Basel Farag argued that coding is not the new literacy in Please dont learn to code.