This week, Elon Musks Hyperloop gotone step closer to becoming a reality, Amazons Dash-powered devices went live, Snoop Dogg announced an investment in a gaming conversation app and astronomers found evidence of aninth planet in our solar system. Some of our TechCrunch team is reporting fromthe World Economic Forum in Davos, where weve hosted Kevin Spacey, the COO of Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, Arianna Huffington, and others on our stage. These are our biggest stories of the week.1.Elon Musk first proposed theHyperloop, a vacuum tube intended to shoot passengers at 800 mph from city to city, in 2013. Now, plans to construct the beginnings of the Hyperloop are now underway.Hyperloop Transportation Technologiesannounced plans for a 5-mile test track late last year and is about to break ground on an initial framework for what the organizationhopes will become the transportationinfrastructure of the future.2.We will get new Apple Watch hardware at some point. The possibilities are many, and Apple will surely capitalize onlongerbattery life and lighter casings. But when? We heard a bit more that suggests that Apple might ship a minor revision of the Apple Watch that includes a FaceTime camera and not much else  but still that it would not be a full Watch 2.0.3.SpaceX was hoping to achieve the first-ever rocket recovery on a drone ship in the ocean. While the companysuccessfully completed itsprimary mission of bringing the Jason-3 satellite into orbit, it wasunable to safely recover the first stage of therocket due toan issue with one of the landing legs which caused the rocket to tip over after landing.4.Apple released two minor software updates for Mac, iPhone and iPad focusing mostly and bug fixes, security fixes and performance improvements.5.Facebook-owned WhatsApp made a couple of bigannouncements about how the messaging appplans to evolve to its next phase as it approaches 1 billion users: the company plans to drop its $0.99 annual subscription fee, and will start to test out more commercial services.6.Sarah Buhr recounted a concerning cab ride in Vegas during CES. She writes that with the rise of ridesharing services, people are turning to Lyft and Uberinstead of taxis not only for convenience, but for their safety. She urges regulators to favorLyft and Uber over taxisfor safety reasons.7.In efforts to lure sports fans who crave real-time updates away from Twitter, Facebook built its newest feature, Facebook Stadium. Its a part of its main app for following sports games where you can watch play-by-play news, read commentary from athletes and critics, and cheer with friends.8.Lucas Matney checked out Apples new GarageBand for iOS, dubbing it an electronic musicians dream. Hepoints out new features like Live Loops, a new way of producing tracks thats more conducive to buildingelectronic jams.9.SinceJack Dorsey tookover as CEO of Twitter, the companysshares have fallenmore than 40 percent and Squares stock has briefly dipped below its IPO price. Matthew Lynley writes that the double-CEOhas a lot of work to do.10.Amazons first Dash-powered devices (the ones that automatically re-order supplies like laundry detergent or printer ink for you) went live.11.Astronomers at Caltech found evidence that indicates the presence of a ninth planet in our solar system. If confirmed, it would transform the model of our solar system as we know it.12.Josh Constine reported that ISIS has its own encrypted chat app called Alrawi. The terrorist groups use of the appraises the question of how far mobile platforms are willing to go to fight terrorism.13.Guest contributor Anshu Sharma wrote about stackfallacy, or the mistaken belief that it is trivial to build the layer above yours, and why big companies keep falling for this illusion. He writes, Stackfallacyhas causedmany companies to attempt to capture new markets and fail spectacularly. When you see a database company thinking apps are easy they are suffering from stack fallacy.