It was a short week with big news, as tech headlines saw two monster enterprise acquisitions, Mary Meeker released the annual Internet Trends Report and Uber got its biggest round of funding yet. These are the stories to catch you up on this weeks tech news.1.In the first of two major enterprise acquisitions this week, marketing automation giant Marketo was bought by Vista Equity Partners for $1.8 billion in cash. This ended speculation that Marketo would be snapped up by Microsoft or SAP.2.If that werentenough for one week, Salesforce took a big step into e-commerce with the $2.8 billion purchase of cloud-based providerDemandware. The deal will spearhead a new business division: the Salesforce Commerce Cloud.3.Kleiner Perkins partner Mary Meeker released the 2016 Internet Trends Report. Highlights from this years compilation include:4.Uber took its most significantinvestment yet: $3.5 billion from Public Investment Fund (PIF), Saudi Arabias main investment fund, as part of itslatest round.5.Severalphotos surfaced showing what is supposed to be the next iPhone and MacBook Pro. These leaked photos themselves are not surprising. Apple spy photos are big business and a staple in tech journalism. But if these photos are to be believed, radical changes are about to hit two of Apples flagship products. And its about damn time.6.Facebooks artificial intelligence systems now report more offensive photos than humans do, marking a major milestone in the social networks battle against abuse.This means that AI could quarantine obscene content before it ever hurts the psyches of real people. If only Twitter could follow suit. Regarding social live video, Josh Constine also wrote thatFacebook and Periscope should take cues from other forms of mass media and build a way to stoke interest and assemble viewers before a live stream starts  a waiting room, if you will.7.Your old emo selfies mayno longer be safe.Myspace (yes, it still exists) confirmed a hack in whicha large set of stolen username and password combinations were made available for sale in an online hacker forum.8.There are millions of apps out there, yet the number of apps that actually get used is still quite small. A new study on mobile app usage showed that nearly 1 in 4 people abandon mobile apps after only one use.9.On the gadget front, Samsung debuted truly wireless exercise earbuds and a new version of the Gear Fit.10.Sirin Labs showed off a $14,000, super-private Solarin smartphone. Any takers?11.Lost item tracker Tileraised $18 million in a Series B round led by Bessemer Venture Partners.Tile makes square tags that employ Bluetooth low-energy radio and GPS techto find objects theyre attached to, like wallets, keychains, purses and gym bags.12.Instagram officially announced the launchof its tools for business users, including new business profiles, analytics and the ability to turn Instagram posts into ads directly from the Instagram app itself.13.Ron Miller wrote a feature on Diane Greene, the executive VP of Google Cloud Enterprise.