This week, Google successfullydefended itself againstthe$9 billion fair use court case against Oracle, Snapchats financials were leaked, Twilio revealed its IPO filing and more. These are the top stories of the week to catch you up on all things tech.1.Closing out a$9 billioncase that has stretched across many years,a jury found that Googles implementation of 37 Java APIs in Android qualified as fair use. However, Oracle attorneyshave already indicated they will appeal the decision.2.Earlier this week we reported that Snapchat was raising more money. AnSECfiling was madewithinformation about Snapchatslatest Series F round, in which it has raised$1.8 billion.We also obtained a leaked pitch deck revealing Snapchats revenue and forecasts.3.Twilio had a big week as it revealed its IPO filing, signifying that it could enter the public markets as early as next month. The cloud communications platform also announceda new product called Programmable Wireless  programmable SIMs for IoT and handsets with T-Mobile  as well asits new Notify APIthat letsdevelopers orchestrate push notifications, text messages and chats.4.Twitter announceditis moving away from its restrictive140-character rule. The company saidit will no longer count media attachments and @names in select replies toward your 140 allowed characters. However, links will still count, and these rules are still confusing.5.Facebook revealed two new features for Live. Live reactions power a visualized timeline of when a Live video receives the most engagement.So now youll be able to see where the video gets interesting. Facebook also enabled Continuous Live Video to power long-form broadcasting like nature feeds and puppy cams. One more thing on the Facebook front: Welearned that Facebook has ditched Bing, and users are now seeing Facebooks own AI text translations.6.Billionaire investor Peter Thielmade headlines this week. Thiel was outed as gay byGawker-owned Valleywag in 2007, and has said that he decided several years ago to try to cripple the publicationin retribution. Thiel has recently beenfunding a case Hulk Hogan has brought against Gawker. Now Gawker founder Nick Denton has published an open letter challenging the investor in a public debate outside the courtroom. Story developing.7.It was a good week for SpaceX. The companyhas for thefourth time landed the Falcon 9s first stage after a challenging orbital launch. This weeks landing also makes it the third timethe company has landed a rocket on a moving robotic drone ship at sea.8.Natasha Lomas wrote thatthe original dream of Googles project Ara modular smartphone concept is dead. Lets file it under it seemed great on paper.9.Microsoft and Facebook announcedthey are teaming up to build a subsea cable across the Atlantic that will connectVirginia Beach, Virginia, with Bilbao, Spain.MAREA will bethe highest-capacity subsea cable to cross the Atlantic (at least for the time being) and will feature eight fiber pairs.10.Crunch Network columnist Jon Evans explained Ethereum,a combination of a cryptocurrency, like Bitcoin, and a vast decentralized computer, in All the cool kids are doing Ethereum now.11.Brian Heater reviewed Jaybirds Freedom headphones, writing that theybring Bluetooth earbuds a step closer to mainstream.12.Reddit launched image uploads, ditching its alliance with Imgur.13.MIT spinoff NuTonomy announced $16 million in funding to go after its ambitious goal of offering self-driving taxis within two years.