This week,Tesla revealed its newest model; the HTC Vive VR headset dropped; the internet saw the largest leak of private documents ever; and Facebooks chatbot plans were revealed. Here are the top tech stories from this week.1.Tesla unveiled the $35,000 Model 3. So far, we know that the base model will do0-60 in under 6 seconds and get at least 215 miles per charge. All Model 3s will have autopilot hardware and come with supercharging standard.Here are 16 actual pictures of the car.2. Last week saw the biggestleak of private documents ever seen on the Internet. ThePanama Paperscontained roughly 2.6 terabytes of documents, related to hundreds of thousands of offshore companies, leaked from a small Panamanian law firm called Mossack Fonseca.3.Facebook had a huge week just ahead of its annual F8 developer conference. The network introduced a mobile video discovery tab for Live videoand a new suite oftools for Pagesdesigned to help Facebook users better connect with businesses. Oh, and spoiler alert: we learned that Facebook chatbots, which could replace 1-800 numbers, are going to be revealed at F8.4.The HTC Vive virtual reality headset droppedat a $799 price point (just a week after Facebooks Oculus released its highly-anticipated Rift headset). We liked theroom-scale tracking, the surprisingly useful cameraand quality optics. The motion-tracked controllers are top notch. We werent fans of the bulky headset design and the UI bugginess.5.Amazon tookon Paypal with the launch of Amazon Payments.The idea is that merchants cantap into Amazons hugeuser base, eliminating the need for customers to create a newusername/password on the merchants site. Quicker checkout = more sales. Bonus: Amazon expanded same day delivery to more mid-sized U.S. cities.6.Twitter signed a deal with the NFL to stream Thursday Night Football. The partnership will also include pre-game Periscope broadcasts from players and teams, as well as in-game highlights.7.WhatsApp is now officially fully encrypted. This means the content of communications arenot stored in plaintext on WhatsApps servers, and the company doesnt hold the encryption keys needed todecrypt messages. So, even if authorities demanded access,WhatsApp wouldbe unable to hand over any messaging data.8.Reddit launched its first official mobile apps and Alien Blue shut down. The site also introduced a new user blocking tool to help fight harassment and trolls.9. An ugly stringof eventshas transpiredin the UK gig-economy space afterDelivery Hero shutteredValk Fleet, its food deliverystartup.Drivers and staff have claimed that they are owed money andValk Fleet UK has put itself into administration (a voluntary process in the UK when a company has incurred debt that it is unlikely to be able to service).Valk Fleets management team says they have receiveddeath threats from disgruntled drivers who, due to their self-employed status, have no employment rights beyond the contract they signed with Valk Feet.10.Salesforce acquired MetaMind, a Palo Alto-based AI startup.11.Ron Miller wrote about Microsofts missing mobile strategy, posing the question of whether or not Microsoft can succeed without a strong Windows mobile position.12.Sarah Buhr introduced us to 13 women leading the life sciences movement in Silicon Valley.13.Valet service Luxe confirmed it has raised a $50 million Series B round from can rental company Hertz. Told you so.