This week, Prop F was struck down, Facebook reported continuedgrowth and Twitter traded in stars for hearts. TC Cribs visited the Love Nest, a Palo Alto co-living space thats part commune and part startup incubator. On Bullish, we talked with Joyce Kim of Stellar aboutthe impact ofnon-profitsinside the tech world. These are the tech stories to catch you up on this weeks major news.1.Proposition F, also known as the Airbnb initiative that the company spent north of $8 million to defeat, was struck down. The San Francisco ballet measure would have put harsher restrictions on short-term rentals, the core of Airbnbs business. Kim-Mai Cutler wrote that both the currentsystemand Proposition F are flawed in different ways.2.Leslie Miley, the onlyblack engineer in a leadership position at Twitter, publicly announced that he left the company. In apost, he said his reasonfor leaving was the wayTwitter addressesdiversity. It wasnt until days later that Twitter SVP of Engineering Alex Roetter responded to the situation,chalking it up to poor communication.Megan Rose Dickey wrote about whats next for diversity at Twitter.3.Facebook reported Q3 earnings. Growth continued as Facebook hit 1.55 billion users and the company beat the streets estimates in itsQ3 2015earnings with $4.5 billion in revenue. Josh Constine reportedFacebooks monthly user count was up sharply to 4.02% quarter over quarter from Q2s3.47% growth. That shows that while it might have hit sign-up saturation in its core markets, its still adding plenty of users in the developing world.that Facebook video viewing is also growing in leaps and bounds. The social network hit 8 billion daily video views, doubling from 4 billion in April.4.Jet took another step in its mission to go head-to-headwith Amazon. The e-commerce company is reportedly raising $500 million on a $1 billion pre-money valuation.5.The Apple TV, complete with a brand new remote and its own app ecosystem,became available in Apple Stores as well as retail stores like Best Buy and Target. Review coming soon.6.Gaming mothership Activision Blizzard acquiredCandy Crush maker King Digital Entertainment for $5.9 billion.7.Expedia acquired Airbnb competitor HomeAway for $3.9 billion in cash and Expedia common stock. HomeAwayraised a total of almost $505 million in five funding rounds before it went public in 2011.8.Twitter gave up stars and favorites for hearts and likes. While it may seem like a trivial icon swap, theres more to it. Josh Constine wrote that hearts could bea way for Twitter to encourage a higher rate of feedback per tweet so users feel more heard. Jordan Crook reminded us that Twitter is in trouble; growth is at a crawl, and this new symbolismmay make Twitter marginally more accessible to a new user.9.Bitcoin enjoyed a strong price rally, pushing to its highest value of 2015. Alex Wilhelm kept tabs on the price of the cryptocurrency as itcontinued to fluctuate.10.Following reports that Google was planningto fold Chrome OS into Android, Google published a story on pretty much every blog it ownsdenying that this will happen.While weve been working on ways to bring together the best of both operating systems, theres no plan to phase out Chrome OS, wrote Googles senior VP for Android, Chrome OS and Chromecast. At the end of the day, Google would rather monetize the web than Android apps anyway.11.AppDynamics, a unicorncompanythat makes software to monitor the performance of business applications,raised a fresh $83.4 million in funding as part of a round thats targeting up to $150 million more.12.Steve OHear went hands-on with the Blackberry Priv, Blackberrys first Android phone. He wrote that there are improvements, but if you want a premium Android phone, there are better options available.13.In the spirit of the November elections, we gave you If The 2016 Candidates Were Tech Companies.Youre welcome.