
Sean O'Connor is the head of product at Mentored. Ive spent most of my life in and around schools. First as a student, then as a teacher and lately as an innovator building tools and launching programs. As Nelson Mandela said, education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. Despite its importance, education seems to have been missed by the Internet revolution. When I walk down the hall of a middle school, not much seems to have changed since I was a student some 15 years ago.Luckily, that is changing. There are a growing number of entrepreneurs working to reshape education. Every year, thoughtful new solutions come online to solve a piece of the problem. Innovators are working hard to create students who can learn how to learn, who can think critically and who can lead. There are only 11 education-focused firms listed on the U.S. stock market with a market cap of over $1 billion. While the market is small and fractured today, GSV Capital estimates that education will grow from 9 percent to 12 percent of Americas GDP over the next decade. This equates to a trillion-dollar opportunity.Using CrunchBase, I took a look at $5.5 billion invested in 450 edtech companies over the last three years. Ive highlighted those in this landscape that exhibit the qualities of an amazing company: a great team, an amazing product and the potential for a huge impact. When thinking about the edtech landscape, I frame solutions by the life cycle of a learner: early childhood, primary and secondary school, higher ed and continuing education. This progression helps me understand where a firm is focusing and what type of change they are trying to make. Ive broken out each category and described the trends I see shaping the market.But before we can talk about the future, lets review the past and the current edtech landscape.Early childhoodEighty-five percent of brain development occurs before the age of three. Today, one-third of American children arent ready when they start kindergarten (only 48 percent of children from low-income families are prepared, according to GSV).Starting behind in kindergarten stacks the deck against a student in life. Students who are unprepared for kindergarten are 25 percent more likely to drop out of high school and 70 percent more likely to be arrested for a violent crime.In America, 98 percent of education funding is spent after age 5.Luckily, there are some great companies who are working to change this by focusing on helping parents give their children a solid educational foundation. The space is dominated by apps and gamification, which appeals to childrens natural curiosity and provides research-driven cognitive and non-cognitive activities to help facilitate development. On-demand app-based learning is a great supplement for families who cannot afford pre-K. Trend: Gamification has been the primary trend in driving engaging materials for young children. Maria Montessori realized long ago that it is crucial to meet young minds where they are, and provide them with the resources to direct their own learning. Digitally delivered content allows kids to engage in play that builds their cognitive functioning, enhances their vocabulary and increases their number fluency. Primary/secondary schoolThe modern school was developed shortly after the civil war, originally known as the common school. Horace Mann, who was a superintendent in Massachusetts, financed a trip to Prussia and modeled the common school after their paramilitary system.Building a persons character was just as important as reading, writing and arithmetic. By instilling values such as obedience to authority, promptness in attendance and organizing the time according to bell ringing helped students prepare for future employment.The common school was built for everyone. It was open to all races, classes and backgrounds. It taught a common curriculum to every student. It was designed to process thousands of students and get them to a base level of competency. It was the era of mass productions answer to educating a mass of students to prepare them to enter the workforce. But the era of the assembly line is over. We are in an age of mass customization, fueled by technology. Seth Godin recently asked, What is school for? If youre not asking that, youre wasting time and money. We need to question the traditional approaches to education andembrace new modes of learning to help create the next generation of leaders.High-school dropouts are three times more likely to be unemployed and eight times more likely to end up in prison than their peers who complete school. Eighty-three percent of American students from high-income families graduate from high school, but only 51 percent of low-income students will complete their secondary education. In 2000, only four states had 50 percent or more of their students from low-income families; by 2013, more than 20 states fit into this category. If the past data holds true, we are going to be faced with a ballooning portion of the population who is unprepared to enter the workforce, despite the increase in spending on education. In America, the average spending per student for K-12 education is $11,000 per year, more than almost every country in the world. Despite the large budgets, American students ranked 36th in global aptitude. Only 16 percent of U.S. K-12 students have access to a laptop or tablet on a 1 to 1 basis. And although 95 percent of schools have Internet, only 20 percent have high-speed access. For technology to disrupt our schools, we need to get them connected. Trend: One of the major developments in primary and secondary education is the focus on personalization. Students get pushed material that meets them where they are, when they need it. Classes can now adapt to a learners needs and provide them with the skills, the instruction and the resources they need to master concepts.UniversityCollege is expensive in America; the average cost is more than $20,000 a year for a four-year degree. At least 65 percent of the 55 million new jobs forecasted for the next decade will require a formal post-secondary credential. In 2015, only 50 percent of college graduates were working in the field they studied, andmore thanone-third indicated they would have chosen a different major. Nearly 40 percent of college graduates believedtheir school did not prepare them well for employment.Students are going to university because it is the right thing to do, often without a thought to the ROI on their education or the work opportunities after school. Only 19 percentof full-time college students graduate in four years, which dramatically increases the cost of their degree. Trend: Online platforms are being leveraged at universities to help drive down the cost of a degree and increase access to programs. Big data platforms are being used to identify students in danger of failing and provide targeted assistance to help them graduate on time.Corporate/continuing educationRecent graduates are now looking at the Return On Education as a measure of quality and to judge the cost of the investment. In the digital economy, continual education is essential. Millennials are projected to have an average of 15 careersduring their lifetime. Many jobs are being automated by robots or artificial intelligence; workers in the modern economy will have to continually adjust.Trends: The two largest sectors for investment are skill training (primarily coding and digital literacy) and English language learning.ConclusionOver the past several years weve seen the rise of the modern edtech industry. There have been massive investments in the space, and the success of these firms will dictate the future of the edtech landscape. More successful exits (like Lynda) will help to propel the industry forward. Investments in the first generation of edtech have also made it difficult for the second generation of companies to attract investment, as investors have been watching this first cohort closely to gauge results.The trends that will shape the market over the next 3-5 years are mass customization, certification, and lifelong learning.Primary and secondary schools will continue the trend toward becoming more adaptive and delivering personalized instruction to meet students where they are. There is a huge need for private/public partnerships to innovate solutions that will help provide low-income students with improved outcomes. Personalization will enable every student to get the content they need, when they need it. With the rise in adaptive curriculum, it will be important to help students realize the why and not just the how. Students, at every stage of the learning life cycle, need to see the value in their learning. Content is now widely available,and open to everyone. With the democratization of content comes new challenges in determining who is qualified to do what. The tech industry has already seen the rise of badging, nano degrees and certifications. Over the next five years this will spread into other fields and become a common trend. Credentials will become a currency.Learning doesnt end when school does. Innovative companies realized long ago that learning is a benefit, as motivated employees want to invest in themselves. Randall Stephenson, the CEO of AT&T, recently said there is a need to retool yourself, and you should not expect to stop. He continued to say that people who dont learn for 5-10 hours a week will become obsolete. Continual learning will help employees keep pace with the changing tech landscape, and will keep them engaged in their work. Thanks to David Blake (Degreed), Vipin Chamakkala (Work-Bench) and Elliott Hauser (Trinket) for sharing valuable feedback. Note: Sean is the head of Product at Mentored.com and has coached for altMBA. Further reading: