Editors Note: Christine Magee is an editorfor CrunchBase.Venture capitalistsreally hit the books in 2014. Edtechcompanies stockpilednearly $2 billion in venture funding a50 percent jump from 2013.For millions of children in the American education system, more venture money doesnt necessarily translate to a better education. The U.S., which has seenover 75 percent of the edtechcapital committed in the past five years, still trails behind the worldwide average in K-12 education scores.Until recently, the majority of the startup community has been absent in discussions aroundeducation reform. Entrepreneurs andventure investors have largelyignored theK-12 market and made bigger bets on adult education startups instead  like professional edtech platformlynda.com, whose $186 million raised in January is the largest edtech financing seen in the past six years, according to CrunchBase data.Nowthe results fromedtechs banner year are in, and it appearsarevivalin K-12 investingis underway.In 2014, startups with a primary or secondary educationfocus accounted fornearly $400 million of the total $1.8 billionin venture capital committed, according to a reportcompiled by GSV Advisors. This is more thandouble 2013s total.Weve been doing education for 17 years, and there wereprobably ten years there where we were the only people who touched a K-12 company because everybody hated it. It was too hard and the procurement was awful, saysDeborah Quazzo, founder of GSV and member of the Chicago Board of Education.The venture firms that did invest got burned. If you look back 10 years, Kleiner and Accelput $225 million dollars into a company called Lightspan,and it finally sold for $50 million, which was lucky. It was just too early  teachers were not ready, schools were not wired, funding wasnt available, says Quazzo.But today, devices are cheaper, students are more tech-savvy, and classrooms are better connected.Chromebooks are now less than $300 bucks, they cost what a textbook used to cost, says Tom Vander Ark, edtech advocate and managing partner at Learn Capital. If you make good use of open content, you can actually save money by shifting to a higher access environment, Vander Ark points out.School districts have already started experimenting with equal access solutions, but a handful of failures have proventhatimplementing technology at scaleis not an easy task.In 2013, LA Unified School District agreed to funnel$1.3 billion into a district-wide initiative that would give each student an iPad. The program was plagued by problems from the start  teachers were not prepared, Internet connection was spotty, and students quicklybypassedsecurity blockers. LAUSD finally suspendedthe program in Decemberin the midst of an FBI investigation into the bidding process that wonPearson and Apple the district-wide contract.Im less of an enthusiast about lets just get every kid an iPad and well figure it out,' says Mitch Kapor, founder of social impact fund Kapor Capital. The idea that you could just throw technology at a problem and raise up kids from low-income backgrounds? It was predictable that it wasnt going to work.Silicon ValleysUdacity learned a similar lesson the year before when it partnered with San Jose Stateto offer online courses for high school students in the localdistrict. The program was intended to provide equal access to college prep courses for low-income high school students, but itsfailurerevealeda digital dividefar wider than expected.The failure of these experimentshave led someto concludethat edtechisnt leveling the playing field at all  in fact, its making it worse. Researchers aredrawing on the idea thatearly advantages tend to multiply over time to posit thata tablet in the hands of a disadvantaged studentis not the same as a tabletin the hands of his privileged counterpart.Theres a heightened disappointment cycle about new technology that plays out in general in our ecosystem, and were seeing that play out to some extent in edtech, says Kapor. When new technology in the classroom starts happening, some people get very excited and think of it as a panacea. It attracts very high amounts of money, it raises expectations, and those expectations arent met.The latest batch of venture-backed edtech companies are making progress.According toKapor, several ofKapor Capitals startupshave already crossedthe million student threshold, with some startupspenetrating 30-40% of all public schools. The two-year-old startupNewsela,whichtailorsnews-centric content to individualreading levels,has already registered teachers in half the schools in the country.If you look at the K-12 school population this year, for the first time students of color form the majority  weve reached that tipping point already, saysKapor. So we are looking at companies that are going into K-12 classrooms and public schools that are set on reducing the achievement gap.But how do you measure which startups are successful at reducing the achievement gap?Kara Chesal is working on a solutionat theNYCDepartment of EducationsInnovateNYC Schoolsprogram.Impact is really hard to measure with things that are changing over time. Think about the medical industry if you give someone a drug, you know that youre giving them the same drug more or less  youre able to control what the dosage is, how theyre using it, when theyre using it, and youre confident that over time its not changing. When we look at educational technology products, its a lot more difficult to make sure that whatever that intervention or product islooks identical across all those different classrooms, says Chesal.In 2014 the Gates Foundation backed InnovateNYCso it couldwork with Johns Hopkins University to figure out a better way to measure theefficacy of new technology in the classroom. One of thecompanies that InnovateNYCis working with, Kinvolved, is an attendance improvement solution that targets students from disadvantaged backgrounds who are chronically absent from school.To close the achievement gap we have to look for support from multiple perspectives and lenses, so changing pedagogy, changing the leadership, making sure students are independent, says Chesal. Technology is one lever in that, its not necessarily a silver bullet, but it can be an enabler.Chesal hopes that Innovate NYC will provide teachers with a way totrack downand comparethe latestclassroom tech products instead of relying on word of mouth. Itsespecially valuable in school districts like New York City, where principalsmaintain control ofeach schoolsbudget.Then theres the whole question of city-wide or district-wide adoption of things  its the same as selling in the enterprise and trying to get full adoption, says Kapor. Thats where the challenge is gonna be for edtech, and thats going to require some system change.Changing the system wont happen at the blazing startup speed Silicon Valley is used to, but its off to a good start.There are all kinds of obstacles, whether its politics or money or whatever, but I am very optimistic, says Quazzo.And by the way, the solution is not simply technology either, its a million things, its the Jim Collins 20 million mile march. But you start with early childhood and you use technology as an accelerant, which I totally believe it is.