20n, one of a wave of biotech-related startups that Y Combinator is starting to fund, is the brainchild of a UC Berkeley professor and a post-doc.Saurabh Srivastava and J. Christopher Anderson have worked together forseveral years developing software thatcandesign genetically engineered microbes to make specific chemicals. While at their DARPA-backed lab at UC Berkeley, they createdbacteria that could produce acetaminophen or Tylenol.Their special sauce is their software platform. While there are companies that license ways to create bacteria that produce specialty chemicals, the process of identifying how to create these microbes is tedious.20n says its data-mining technology canget to 100 times more chemicals than were previously thought possible. (A visual map of these possibilities is laid out in the picture at the right.)Companies will tell 20n what molecules they want to make, and 20ns software will design a microbe that can do it. They have to be organic compounds, however.With the specialty chemical industry being worth $980 billion, licenses for these microbes can start in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. 20n already has several contracts in negotiation.Even the most boring chemicals still tend to be billion dollar markets,Srivastava said.They named the company 20n because 20is the number of standard amino acids specified by the universal genetic code. Proteins aremadeof sequences that are typically 300 to 500amino acids long.20n is the set of combinations the company gets to play with.Srivastava earnedhis Ph.D. incomputer science, while Anderson is a tenured UC Berkeley professor who has worked in synthetic biology for 17 years.In their years of working together,their different backgroundsled to some funny miscommunications. For instance, API means application program interface to aprogrammer andadvanced pharmaceutical intermediate to abiochemist.We had to figure out a language to work in that both abiologist and computer scientist could understand, Anderson said.