Payments continue to be a huge issue in many parts of Asiaand emerging markets. Thatswhy2C2P, a Singapore-headquartered startup, has closed a $7 million Series C round to help solve the complexitiesacrossSoutheast Asia.The roundwas providedbyHong Kong-based Amun Capital andGMO Venture Partners fromJapan.It takes the startup at $40 million pre-money, and takes itto$10 million from investors to date.2C2P is not one of the most prominent startups in Asia. You are unlikely to find CEO Aung Kyaw Moe on theregional event circuit hes busy running a business.Yet his story and the rise of the company itself isnot your average one.The business began in 2003 when Moe, who is from Myanmar but lives in Bangkok, tired of hisprogramming job at a corporate bank. Having excelled and won prizes at regional coding events, hefigured he could pursue somethinghe was passionate about for a living. Once he became a free man, Moebuilt a number of mobile games but ran into problems when herealized funding his venture wasnt as easy as hed initiallypresumed.His path to startup CEO began to gather steam when his son was born. Initially struggling for money (Moeswife and son had to movein with her parents), hefound the expectations of fatherhood to be the ideal motivator.His luck began to come right when a friend from a major bank in Thailand complained about security protocols hampering efforts to tap into mobile and internet services. Moecoded a system that used SMS to verify payments, and within three weeks it wasverified and sold to thebank. Sensing an opportunity, Moefounded 2C2P  which is registered in Singapore, but run out ofBangkok, Thailand  to fully focus on banking industry pain points.Today, the startup works with a range of top names  includingAmerican Express, China UnionPay, JCB, MasterCard, and Visa  enabling themtake and receive payments. 2C2P has a presence ineverycountry in Southeast Asia bar only Vietnam, a politically tricky minefield, and the tiny Brunei. In total ithas89 staff, butMoetold TechCrunch in an interview that he intends to increase totalhead count to 120 by the end of 2015.With over 600million people, close to 700hundred million mobile devices and a GDP of US$2.4 trillion and growing, the promise of e-commerce in Southeast Asia is tremendous buttheres no payments company thatcan serve the full region, Moesaid. We want to be No. 1, and our ambition is to only serve Southeast Asia.The 2C2P CEO, who recently completed a business degree alongside his role in order to learn the skills I need to build a team and culture, is also seeking to make senior hires for the management team, particularly around corporate governance and HR.The money will go to regional expansion, too. There are no immediate plans to look for acquisitions, but Moehinted that M&A deals could be on the cards once 2C2P completes its Series D round. Thats something, he added, that he isnt focusing on at this point.Moeisparticularly passionateabout the potential of pre-paid payments in Southeast Asia, a growing movement that helps those without credit cards  who represent the overwhelming majority in many countries  to usenew services from banks andretailers.To that end, 2C2P is working on virtual and physical debit and prepaid cards thatcan help bridge the payments gap. The Series C fund, Moe said, would be used to develop other technologies, too.While Braintree and Stripe are beginning to target Asia with early rollouts,Moe said he believes that a local approach is necessarily for local problems. For example, he explained, 2C2P supports payment via monthly installments on commerce sites, which is an important but often understated feature that consumers in Southeast Asia look for when buying big-ticket items.2C2Ps services processed $2.2 billion in transactions across Southeast Asia during 2014. That represented a400 percentannual increase, and Moe said he believes that the growing focus on the media  from the likes of Rocket Internets Lazada and Zalora, tobig companies like Alibaba/Taobaoand startups like Carousell,will drive strong growth in our revenues,