Who do you call if you want to 3D print something? Step forward3Dprintler,a startup that has made a searchengine for locating3D printing services in your area. The team was chosen as the wildcardcompany from Startup Alley to present onstage in the 2016 Battlefield here at TechCrunch Disrupt New York.3Dprintlerssearch engine, which launched last year, lets users upload a 3D file for printing, select the materials they want their file to be printed in and get a list of quotes tocompare. They can thenorder the print directly, with 3Dprintler monetizing by taking a cut of any sales its search engine generates.But and heres the topical twist  the teamhas also created an integrated chatbot for accessing their platform thats aimed at simplifying the process by providing a concierge service for ordering 3D prints. Their 3D print quote botcurrently supportsmessaging platforms including Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Slack, Telegram, Kik and Skype.While early messaging platformchatbots can seem spammy and/or time wasting, 3Dprintlers chatbot feels like a farmore practical application of this sort oftech, given that 3D printing can be a time-consuming and frustrating process. So a bot being there to walk you through the different steps seems like its going to provide some useful reassurance.The bot, which launched about a month ago, has already generated an uptick in orders, according to 3Dprintler co-founder Michael Golubev.Weve seen over one hundred order already just in that period of time, which is I think like 56 percent more conversion rate than we see from using the website. So we see that people actually enjoy using the bots way more, somehow its more natural than using the website, he tells TechCrunch.Almost it becomes outdated to use a website.Theteam is running a pilot of their quote bot with a few companies, with the ultimate aim of creating what they dub a factory as a service platform  aka a software-as-a-service-style business model with the sales pitch to businesses being that asearch andorder bot for 3D printing simplifies the order process to the point where its easier for businesses to pay to use abot, rather than own a 3D printer themselves (and need to train staff how to use it).Startup Battlefield: 3D Printler at #TCDisrupt https://t.co/B2YUwdoHA2 TechCrunch (@TechCrunch) May 10, 2016Were more focused on prosumer users, so somebody who wants a professional service done, says Golubev. The consumer market is just not there yet, once were able to scan things it will be but for now its the Fortune 500 companies that hold the biggest potentialfor the growth.From talking to those companies the biggest pain that they have, they all have the same thing: they get the expensive printers because they hear about the hype, they invest $300,000 in the machine and then it just sits there idling because there has to be a special person trained to use it.3Dprintler processes the 3Dfiles uploaded by users to get them ready forprinting and can also fix problems with files. It sees the latter as another potential revenue stream down the line  talking upthe potential for a future market powered by consumers scanning objects with their smartphone cameras and then chatting via messaging app to 3Dprintlersbot toorder their 3Dprints.Chatbots is the solution we were looking for because we get access to millions of people, and were betting that eventually every phone will have a 3D scanner built in it. It will be super easy to use and once we have all those millions of people using it, adoption rate is going to skyrocket and youre going to have all those billions of files that people want to create  3D selfie, for example, is going to be a new craze.The startup has been working in the 3D printspace since2013, initially minting money by sellingdrone parts for DJI phantom drones before too many copycat sellers flooded the market. They also made a customizer tool for 3D print files, andalso previously set upan open-source initiative for 3D printable hydroponics.In their search for a sustainablebusiness model in the spacetheyve now settled on simplifying access to 3D printing services as the core problem tofix having had to go through similar steps themselves, over the years.We realized not everyone has access to a 3D printer, saysGolubev. Thats how the 3Dprintler search engine was born.How do we tap into all the 3D printing services out there and allow a person to find the best price, based by location, based by quality, based by material?As well as seeking to tap into large, engaged user bases on messaging platforms with a chatbot interface, Golubev says they are also talking to 3D marketplaces, such as Thingiverse, with the hope of integrating their search and order service into those larger platforms, too.They do also have an API  launched back in January  to enable others, such as designers, to embed their search engine elsewhere.Everybody can tap into this API. Lets say youre a designer and you have some files you want to sell  put our button on your website and this button will allow whoever is visiting your websiteto find the best printer, the best price. You as the designer get a cut, we get a cut, so we kind of split the revenue with you, he notes.At this point 3Dprintler has some 20,000 3D print service providers globally in their database, and have done test prints to verify the quality of the providers they are listing. Their search engine supportsmore than 60 file formats for 3D printing.The team has also raised $750,000 in seed funding from an undisclosed European business angel.Judges Q&AQ: I have to ask the obvious question  why does it have to be a bot?A: A bot is really easy to use interface that everybody is using these days, you see people on their phone, the young generation barely calls anyone any more. Its a really easy platform, doesnt require additional installations, you can just have this AI in your pocket the whole time.In 3D printing industry were waiting for a killer app. We believe the killer app will be a 3D scanner built in every phone  so you can take a 3D selfie.Q: B2B 3D printing does not feel like an impromptu actionA: Imagine Slack  all the people are using Slack right now. Somebody throws in the file, it gets you the results, everyones working together, collaborating together.Q: Do you also have an app?A: Yes we have a mobile app and a web app, thats how we started. For about a year weve been building things secretly. Bots became this meaningful way to access people.Q: How have you been acquiring the long tail of people who have machines in their offices?A: We built a bot that crawls the web for 3D printing service providers. We have about 20,000. Weve been reaching out to them. People have been jumping on board joining our system.Q: If I was to compare what you do to 3D hubs, how does that go?A: We are working with 3D hubs to add them.If I want to compare 3D printing prices I have to go to every website to spend time to compare quotes, this bot creates tremendous time savings.Q: A lot of large companies have invested a lot of money in 3D printing they do that because they want to use the machines whenever they want to. How do you navigate the organizational complexities here?A: As an engineer you wouldnt even feel there was a change  you would use the bot and get the results. And we can get you the results as soon as the same day or the next day turnaround time so as an engineer you wouldnt even feel the difference. You would feel it is advantageous to use the bots instead of going downstairs to John and asking him to print something on the machine and John is sick and the machine doesnt work.Every company shares the same pain point and in a way this is the simple solution. The future of conversational commerce means 3D printing.Q: Is there a risk in terms of quality?A: Were working on ways to protect the users so we hold the money in an escrow account until the order comes through. So as a user you will receive the file and you will verify it is great, there will be a review and then the money is released to the 3D printing provider so they are encouraged to produce good results.In the end everybody is using pretty much the same equipment so its a matter of printing, pressing a button and being trained how to do that. As long as you can do this and you do the right thing I think there should be no problems.Of course we verify the providers, we allow them to send a first print and check out how it is done.Q: If there were other applications for this would you be open to them?A: I think we invented this niche, 3D printing chatbots, and we just want to dominate it and we want to continue moving this forward  adding IBM Watson for intelligence, pairing up with Viv for AI, connecting different APIs, the skys the limit.