Editors note:Dane Atkinson is the CEO of SumAll.Sixteen years ago, I thought that owning a bar and running a tech startup simultaneously would be a great match for my ADD. Ultimately, what made the late nights and shenanigans worthwhile was discovering the Lime Equation, a formula that revealed which employees were stealing from the bar.Today, I would argue that every CEO needs a secret Lime Equation that he or she can use to gauge the performance of employees, free from manipulation.A case for secret performance metrics must sound odd coming from the same guy who argued that all salaries should be open knowledge among employees. However, this is a rare case where secrecy can actually create more trust, freedom and transparency in the long run. Like the observer effect in physics, the mere act of watching your Lime Equation can change the outcomes it measures.In 1999, I opened a bar in SoHo called Recess. At the age of 26, it seemed like a good idea. My job was to take out the money at the end of the night, but theft is the bane of bars. Staff notoriously steal money, and bar owners go to extreme lengths to stop them. Many put in security cameras, measure bottles, search employees bags and ultimately create a mini surveillance state.These invasive measures have two consequences. First, employees figure out a way around all of them. They put bills in clever stacks so that the cameras cant see the real numbers. They pour water into vodka bottles so you cant take accurate measurements. They hide cash in places you wont dare search. Hell, they bring in their own bottles of liquor to sell from.Second, these half-baked security schemes tell bar staff that you dont trust them, and it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. They think, Well, if you think Im stealing anyway, Im going to do it and get away with it.I didnt have a good plan for preventing theft, but as Recess became successful, the bar needed me to bring more singles, limes and lemons throughout the night. We didnt have limes and lemons delivered  we just bought bags as needed. I started to notice that there was a relationship between the number of drinks served and the bags of limes wed get through. Being a math geek, I examined this and found a stunningly close correlation between sales and limes, accurate to plus or minus 5percent.So if the sales to limes ratio didnt match up, that meant something was wrong with the theory, or something was wrong with the bar.I started rotating the bartenders and bar backs so I could determine who was on duty when the Lime Equation failed. Within one week, I identified who was stealing money, asked him to open his bag and found $2,500 in cash. The rest of the staff had no idea how I figured this out. Each time someone began stealing a significant amount of cash, I caught the culprit, much to everyones bewilderment. With a reputation like the Dread Pirate Roberts, I convinced everyone to give in  to honesty.Cameras, random searches and bottle measuring encourage staff to steal from bars. The surveillance apparatus tells employees that they arent worthy of you trust, and it fails to solve the problem. However, if staff dont know what youre tracking, you dont need to Orwellianize your bar. After the victory of the Lime Equation, I realized this same lesson applied to tech startups.Micromanaging people always encourages them to inflate numbers, cheat the system and look good at the expense of integrity. A Lime Equation, on the other hand, can give CEOs an honest view of performance without relying on arbitrary measurements have little correlation with results.For my first major startup Lime Equation, I looked at total email volume and the ratio of internal to external emails  and I did not tell a soul. If email volume for an employee dipped from 500 in March to, say, 200 in April, I knew something was up. Maybe the employee was growing unhappy at the company. Maybe he or she was having personal issues.The change in numbers was cause for a conversation in which I could diagnose the problem and help the person get back on track. The Lime Equation helped me manage performance and morale without setting quotas, enforcing 9 to 5 hours or otherwise micromanaging people in ways that encourage dishonesty.With this net in place, I could finally relaxand be less of an ass. Instead of asking employees to tell me how they were being productive  a charade of a conversation that encourages exaggerations  I could just look at the hard email volume captured in numbers. Instead of hearing peoples stories about what was happening, I saw what was happening.However, I told no one that I was watching email volume. If employees knew my Lime Equation, they would manipulate email volume  consciously or unconsciously. I saved the Lime Equation and saved my employees from this temptation so I could trust them without any reservations.Free from the burden of checking and enforcing arbitrary performance guidelines, the Lime Equation helped me run a more effective company. By keeping the Lime Equation secret, I kept everyone honest, including myself.Still, the overwhelming majority of metrics that matter to a businesses should be transparent. Sales, social metrics, customer satisfaction, support response times and dozens of indicators should be accessible to all the people whodepend them to measure and improve their craft. The difference with a Lime Equation is that it cant instruct people like these metrics can because it is a proxy measurement for a smorgasbord of desirable behaviors. The Lime Equation metric is not a desirable outcome in itself, like a sale or 5/5 review.The hardest part of a Lime Equation is finding the right one. To do this, look at what you currently micromanage. Whatever is killing peace of mind and stressing your employees out  whatever calls for the corporate equivalent of security cameras and random searches  that is what needs a Lime Equation.The secret metric could change over time. A company struggling with retention could use LinkedIn page refreshes to gauge morale. If people are constantly using the site, theyre probably looking for a new job. Alternatively, you could look at your job referral program. If job referrals are high, current employees likely have confidence in your company. If its low, people might not want to draw their friends into the hell they see around themselves.If youre a business leader and you care about the dedication, output and passion of your team, find the metric that correlateswith those attitudes; that number is for you and you alone.