Editors note: Ryan Caldbeck is CEO and co-founder of CircleUp.Is there a Food Bubble? Robyn Metcalfe believes so. In her recent TechCrunch articleshe pointed to recent fundraises by Instacart and Delivroo  reportedly demanding valuations of $2 billion and $100 million on revenues of ~$100 million and $1 million, respectively  as evidence that the irrational exuberance often found in tech is seeping over into food investments.Ive been investing in high-growth consumer businesses my entire career. When I see revenue multiples reaching 100x, I bat an eye, too. But this isnt evidence of a food bubble. And thats because Instacart is not a food company. Nor is Deliveroo.Each are decidedly tech. Using these two companies companies as evidence of a food bubble is akin to saying Airbnbs valuation is evidence of a hotel bubble  or Ubers valuation is evidence that the valuations of Detroits big three are due for a correction.There isnt a bubble in food. In fact, there are not bubbles in consumer/retail. Period. Rather than look at specific companies, lets look at the data. Across public and private companies in the consumer space, food and beverage constitute about 40 percent of CPG, so this is a good proxy for the industry overall.Cambridge Associates tracks the performance of private-equity investments across industries. In the past 15 years, through two recessions, there hasnt been a single negative vintage year in consumer/retail. For investors, this means there is far less vintage risk when investing in consumer compared to tech.Why is this? A couple of reasons. First, only 5 percent of venture capital goes to consumer investments. There isnt as much competition, and, therefore, prices arent being unsustainably driven up.Second, investors in consumer invest in fundamentals. Not just blind hope. And its these fundamentals  real revenues, margins, predictable growth engines that shield investors from the valuation exercises (often based on unproven, flavor-of-the-day metrics) that you see in tech. You cant fake your way to building a new factory or increasing sell-through 5x.Heres an example of what investing in fundamentals, not hype, looks like. Over the past three years 23 food companies have raised capital on CircleUp. Heres the profile of the average company at the time of raising:This is hardly representative of irrational exuberance. Rather, investors are exercising discipline. You may wonder if this rationality negatively affects their return prospects. In early stage investing, is irrationality the name of the game? Do investors need to suck it up and accept spectacular valuations to do well? Absolutely not. The Kauffman Foundation found that the average returns for angel investors in consumer products were 3.6x cash on cash over 4.4 years (PDF). Higher than software.I agree with Robyn that valuations in food tech are reaching dizzying heights. But strip out the tech, and the associated mania around it, and youll find scant evidence of a bubble.Rather, youll find reasoned investments being made in exceptional companies at unexceptional valuations.