
S.H. Jucha was a senior manager in the technical education and software development industries, with degrees in Biology and Broadcast Communications. He is the author of the science fiction series, The Silver Ships.As incredible as it might seem, processing trash may represent a future unique investment opportunity. Consider the new technologies that will operate on the micro scale, breaking the bonds of molecules through bio-mechanical means, which could be applied to recycling trash completely. It is quite possible that many of these innovations may emerge from our efforts to explore and live in space.Since the dawn of the Industrial Age, we have polluted our streams, rivers, lakes and oceans with pesticide and fertilizer runoff, mining and oil wastes, petrochemical products and thousands of other dangerous products.Pollution has reached the point where a cleanup of our environment on a macro scale with heavy equipment is impractical. Despite present efforts, humanity is losing the fight to managetrash.Commercial and government-mandated recycling cant cope with the sheer volume oftrash, and these programs only excel at processing such material as paper, aluminum and steel. In essence, the present forms oftrashcollection and recycling are unacceptable.Theopportunityforinvestmentin effectivetrashprocessing will be huge. We have discarded billions of tons of plastic across our planet in the last 60 years. So much debris has accumulated in the Pacific Ocean that it has been termed the Great PacificGarbagePatch.Scientistsbelieve that thetrashhas been sinking beneath the surface, making accurate measurement of the amount oftrashdifficult.Plastics, whose durability, inexpensiveness and malleability make it an easy choice for consumer and industrial products, make up the majority of thegarbagepatch debris. In a process calledphoto degradation, which is caused by the ultra violet (UV) component of solar radiation (that is, radiation of wavelength from 0.295 to 0.400 um), the plastics have been broken down into smaller and smaller pieces.National Geographicstates that scientists have collected up to 750,000 bits of micro-plastic in a single square kilometer of the Great PacificGarbagePatch  thats about 1.9 million bits per square mile.Now comes the age of our expansion into space, requiring that we conquer new and unique problems. Obstacles that were overcome in early space exploration have already made invaluable contributions to todays technologies and helped tackle problems we have faced planetside.Importantly, space exploration will not be afutureof just probes launched to investigate asteroids and distant bodies which I applaud but, more importantly, the creation of long-term habitats, both government and commercial missions, which Buzz Aldrin appropriately calls permanence.With the daunting challenges facing countries today dwindling precious resources, effects of climate change, outbreaks of deadly diseases, long-term conflicts and mass human migration 100 percent recycling/reclamation projects cant be high on their lists of priorities.However, long-term space exploration will have the priorities of food, water, oxygen, fuels, environment control, protection from solar radiationanda growing pile of expended materials trash.Long-term habitation will demand extremely efficient resource management of water, air, organics and inorganics  those items that typically, when worn out, enter our trashpiles and consist of everything from door seals to expended lubricants. Our scientists will have to approach the challenge of recycling with an eye toward 100 percent solutions, and recycling inorganics will present the greatest challenge.Simply put,trashwill cost too much to ship back to Earth, and it would be invaluable if this waste could be fully recycled into environmentally useful components. With Earths resources dwindling, the better we can recycle and reclaim what today we call trash and repurpose it in our commercial products, the more we can extend the lifespan of Earths resources.Petrochemical products from synthetic rubber and solvents to fibers and plastics may be degraded by various micro-organisms, which break the carbon bonds to produce byproducts such as methane, carbon dioxide and water.Space habitats represent an ideal environment to experiment with closed systems employing bio-engineered micro-organisms to recycle petrochemical products, where, in case of accidental release of the organisms, it might be opportune to open the test area to vacuum.Why experiment with bio-engineered micro-organisms? Why not? There are plenty of examples that give credence to the concept:Futurespace habitats, with their complete isolation, present an excellentopportunityfor micro-scale waste management experiments that would involve genetically modified microorganisms. Unfortunately, these types of experiments will not be a priority in the early stages of habitats. Supplies will be too precious to be consumed in nice-to-have experiments.However, when habitats graduate to the size of colonies, housing thousands of residents, nice-to-have may become must-have, and the pressure to develop efficient processes to recycle inorganics, such as plastics, will only increase as the colonies grow.Creating and employing genetically engineered bacterium, fungi, yeasts, algae, lichens and the like to recycle petrochemical products  until such time as alternative, easily recyclable materials are developed will be the responsibility of disciplines such as biochemists, geneticists and engineers  or collectively what I like to call waste managements bio-alchemists.Whatever new technologies long-term space habitats invent to manage inorganic wastes, recycling the material into reusable components, construction products or other practical purposes, its my fervent hope that they will translate into a boon for solutions to Earths problems. If they do, new techniques in recycling and pollution mitigation will represent a global businessopportunity.A first step on Earth might limit the applications to controlled facilities, processingtrashfrom homes and businesses. Later, with subsequent iterations that limit the microorganisms life cycles, the solutions may be applied to Earths open waters and landscapes. Glory to the future of garbage management!As an environmentalist, I do not see thesefutureinnovations as nice to have. I see them as economic necessities. If we wish to have the luxury of time to investigate our solar system, building habitats on distant planets and moons and involving commercial ventures, we must ensure the health of the global economic base from which the funds and resources will spring to feed our space exploration endeavors.At present, ourglobal populationis estimated to be 7.27 billion people; by the mid-21st century, this number is expected to reach9.6 billion. Regardless of the extent of our ventures into space, the overwhelming majority of these people will remain on Earth, and they will require a healthy and safe environment if they are to contribute to the global economy. Ensuring humans live in an invigorating environment would not only be good economics, it would be the right thing to do.Perhaps in thefuture, commercial products may be created through technologies such as nano-manufacturing. It would eliminate much of the problem of inventing recycling methods or finding places to bury ourtrash,because these products could be repaired or recycled by reversing the nano-manufacturing process.