Pejman Mar Ventures is just two years old, yet it has managed to make a name for itself among Stanford students, partly because its 5,000-square-foot offices are less than a mile from the schools leafy campus andlargely because the firm has made a concerted effort to bring Stanford students and alums into its community, including through a summer program that basically invites students to hang out and see what happens, no strings attached.Founded by serial entrepreneur Mar Hershenson and Pejman Nozad, who famously sold rugs to tech millionaires before becoming a full-time investor, the $50 million, seed-stage firm has already backed five startups whose founders were at Stanfordwhen Pejman Mar wrote them a check. Among them:the deep-linking technology company Branch Metrics, which has now raised$17.8 million altogether; Polarr, a popular photo-editing tool that recently raised $1 million inseed funding; and the food-delivery startup DoorDash, which has raised $60 millionto date.Now, Pejman Mar is setting its sights on the University of California, Berkeley. Specificallyits announcing a new competition in which it will invest $250,000 in one team founded by either a student, faculty member, or alum of the school in exchange for 10 percent of their company.As part of the competition, its alsopassing 10 percent of its stake (or 1 percent of the company) along to Berkeley itself.Applicants have until October 1 to apply. The firm will decide on the winner by October 30.Nozad says the competition was born of acouple ofreasons, including the firms realization that it wasnt paying enough attention to the untapped talent at Berkeley.Weve backed seven companies founded by students: one from M.I.T. ,one from Carnegie Mellon, and five from Stanford, says Nozad. Of course, he notes, with Sand Hill Road just minutes away  not to mentionmany VCs homes  Stanford sees plenty of interestfrom a lot of investors.Meanwhile, he says, Berkeley, a 45-minute drive from Palo Alto, doesnt get nearly as much attention, despite that itscomputer science department ranks right up there with Stanford and Carnegie Mellon and M.I.T.Nozad says he wishes his firm could give the school as much attention it gives to Stanford. Until it has more bandwidth,its hopingthecompetition will help it identify a promising company it might miss otherwise.The firm will also get a look at plenty of interesting new ideas, presumably.Asked if Pejman Mar islooking for companies in particular sectors, Nozad says it isnt. We dont have any set rules. We think entrepreneurs know the future, not us. Even with our fund, we take it day by day, though typically, we look for people who are solving a problem in a big market,who have chemistry and whose motivations for starting the company we understand.Askedif the firm feels any pressure to fund a student versus a teacher or graduate, Nozadsays it doesnt, though he adds that were only looking at [teams whose founders have] graduated in the last five years. We would have extended it to 10 years, but we dont want 2,000 applications.Interested partiesshould take note: Along with a written application, Pejman Mar is asking that that each teamput together a 90-second video. Keeping it simple is a good idea, too.They should tell us quickly about themselves and the problem theyre trying to solve, says Nozad.Were not looking for anything crazy or cool.More information is available here.