If you havent heard of a fairly new twist on investing called special purpose vehicles (SPVs), you probably arent an institutional investor or a wealthy individual with direct ties to either a venture firm or a high-flying startup like Pinterest or Postmates.But dont worry if youve missed the opportunity to invest in one. Investors may find they werent worth the risk if valuations of so-called unicornssome given haircuts recently by their mutual fund investors  start to slip more broadly.The vehicles  essentially pop-up venture firms that come together quickly to make an investment in a single company  began surfacing around 2011, leading up to Facebooks IPO, and theyve been on the rise since. In April, the Wall Street Journal reported on several low-flying SPVs that have been used to connect investors with high-profile, still-private companies like the data analytics company Palantir Technologies and the grocery -delivery outfit Instacart.Another company that has raised money via numerous SPVs is the digital scrapbooking company Pinterest. When it set out to raise more than $500 million earlier this year, the venture firm FirstMark Capital raised a $200 million for a SPV to help fund it. In 2014, Pinterest separately raised $131.1 million through two SPVs organized as Palma Investments by SV Angel, the seed-stage fund founded by renowned investor Ron Conway.Its no wonder that investors are drawn to the vehicles. In the case of Facebook, early access to the company producedbig dividends for investors. Investor Chris Sacca similarly amassed an outsize stake in Twitter for investors Rizvi Traverse and J.P. Morgan by creating SPVs that paid off. (How richly depends on when they began cashing out. As of late September, Rizvi Traverse had sold more than 10 percent of the 15.6 percent of Twitter it owned at the time of itsNovember 2013 IPO. Twitters shares peaked in January of 2014 at $69 per share; theyre now trading at roughly $26 apiece.)Whether investors in newer SPVs will see such rewards remains a question mark  and there a lot of investors in newer SPVs.Its a sign of the times, says one money managerat a Southern California firm whoworks with roughly 60 wealthy familiesand hasbeen presented with numerous opportunities to invest in SPVs.Its about access, says this person, noting that its hard to say no to certain investments no matter the terms, though he has pushed back against some SPVs that have traditional fund-likecosts meaning they charge 2 percent in management fees and another 20 percent cut from any profits.(We dont think we should be paying management fees, he says. The VCs arent doing any extra work.)A San Francisco-based venture fund manager whose central fund is smaller than $10 million, says he has raised seven SPVs in the last 18 months that account for significantly more than hisoriginal fund. (He doesnt charge management fees on the SPVs.)My LPs like them a lot, he says. People like to put $250,000 or $500,000 into your fund, but when they see these [unicorn companies], they have no problem writing a $1 million check into that company. Its always one email, every time, and people want to deploy [their capital], just like that.An L.A-based venture fund cofounder who asked not to be named, argues that SPVs have grown a little too easy to put together, in fact.Though this person has organized several SPVs himself, he sayshe hasbegun to see people who are unqualified trying to partake and sell access in things that are grossly overpriced. It reminds me of greed at the top of the market  in 2000, just before the first dot-com bubble collapsed.Craig Dauchy, the head of the venture capital practice group at the law firm Cooley, says he hasnt seen any unsophisticated investors participating in SPVs. With our client base, were putting together SPVS with legitimate venture managers who have the opportunities to pull together syndicates for excess capacity in their deals, [meaning] more than their existing funds can take.Either way, Dauchy notes that risks and big rewards are simply the nature of the investments, andwhether they are good or bad is in the eye of the beholder.Some would say theres too much money chasing unicorn deals, while some would say absolutely not; they should absolutely get more money, he says.In the meantime, everyone involved or watching the trendanticipates trouble if the market turns.The downside of SPVS is there will eventually will be there will be failure, and the failure will feel more like failure than with a fund, says the San Francisco-based venture fund manager. With a fund, you dont feel the flameouts as much because youre still counting on a winner or two. Its, I dont care if you lose one as long as you make money for me overall. But if Instacart goes to zero and you get a K-1 [tax document] that says you lost millions of dollars, thats going to hurt.Indeed, its a littlehard to know what to do about SPVsat this point in the game, suggests Brian OMalley, a general partner at Accel Partners. He says whileAccel hasnt done any SPVs yet, the concept of doing one hasnt been ruled outeither.The upside, OMalleysays, is that they can be simpler to pull together than other financing rounds, and a class of investors can get broader exposure to companies that theyre excited about.Still, while SPVs are a great concept when the market is up and to the right, it can be scary, bringing LPs more directly into deals and taking fees or some kind of carry off that when things turn and go the other way, he adds. LPs as direct investors is kind of a mixed bag, and it can be real dangerous when things go south.