Your friend tells you about a great new TV show theyre watching on Netflix, or a new restaurant that you just have to try. If youre like me, you tend to pop open the Notepad app on your phone and jot down this information for laterAnd then you promptly forget about it.A new mobile application called Soon is now offering a better way to help you keep track of all those things you want to remember to do  whether thats a movie you want to see, a bar you want to visit, a book you want to read, and more.The idea is that by listing these sorts of smaller-scalebucket list items in their own dedicated spaceinstead of using a note-taking app, it will be easier to keep track of everything you want to do.Explains Soon founder and CEOCarl Anchr, the problem with note-taking apps is that theybecome messy, and you wont remember what you put in.With Soon, however, each item is neatly organized into the appropriate category  e.g. Books, Bars & Clubs, Movies, TV Shows, Hotels, Museums, etc. The app pulls in all the additional information youll need about that item, whether thats the movies plot, photos, the phone number and address for the location, and more. (Id like it better if it would let you take the next step, though  like making a reservation via OpenTable or buying movie tickets, for example.)Then,when youve completed an item, you can mark it off the list. This doesnt delete it fromSoon,though, but moves it into a past section.The app also offers a social element, allowing you to follow your friends on the service in order to see what theyre planning on seeing, reading or doing, for further inspiration. And in the case thatyou dont have enough friends on Soon to make the social element compelling at first launch, a trending section will show the hottest items in your own neighborhood or city  a feature that could be useful when traveling, as well.Anchr says he and his co-founder,Henrik Evrell, came up with the idea for Soon because they both felt that there isnt a goodway to track all the things you hear about on a daily basis that you want to try. We started asking around and saw that the most common solution actually was the note app, which looked really messy, he says.Soon began as a passion project, as the two Stockholm-based founders currently work in the agency world.Anchr foundedMost Studios, which isfocused on digital design and communication forup-and-coming tech companies likeTinitell,QapitalandFlic. Henrik, meanwhile, is a co-founder ofSeventy,a brand agency doing strategy, design, and film for bigger companies like H&M,Universal Music and OnePlus.But nowAnchr says the two of them, along with a couple ofother developers who round out Soons team of four, will be focusing on Soon and moving away from agency work. Theyve even pulled in a small amount of angel funding  mostly a friends and family-type of round  in order to get Soon off the ground.Though arguably not for everyone  many people will likely think Notepad will suffice  I personally found Soon to be the perfect sort of single-purpose utility that I could see myself using on a regular basis for exactly the reasons the team specified. Using Notes is messy. I have no idea what I wrote down after some time passes, and Im not even sure how to pull it up via search in manycases. (Did I write downthat it was a French restaurant? I know it was a new sci-fi show, but did I say that or did I just write down the title? What was that book my co-worker suggested?)That being said, as a free download, I was a bit concerned about the apps potential longevity.Anchr, however, says the team has a longer-term vision for Soon which involves making the app more social, where users can follow friends and other taste-makers, as well as buildtheir own citywide lists, and more. Theyre also thinking of expanding categories to include things like podcasts, gaming, music and stores.These social elements somewhatof bring to mind those rate anything apps that were trendy a few years ago, like Kevin Roses Oink or the ex-Googler backed Stamped, for example. And those apps ultimately failed. But theresstillvalue in the flip side  the things Im interested in trying versus the things Id tried and liked. After all, thats similar to what the siteProduct Hunt features  newly launched apps and games that influentials recommend trying.Anchr also says Soonsbusiness model could allow businesses tocommunicate with future customers, discover hot leads, and incentivize people to try or buy their service in the future.In the meantime, Soon is a free download here on iTunes.