Wearables had a varied year in 2015, with a lot of hype and a few big winners streaking ahead of the field, leaving plenty of also-rans struggling to stand out.Its fair to say that the entire category is yet to prove whether itofferslastingutility or mere faddish novelty. The success of the smartphone is such than any supplementarytechnology inevitably lives in its shadow  and wearables are all about offering some kind of add-on functionality. Mobile undoubtedly still wears techscrown, and will do for the foreseeable future.Apple arrivesThe wearable category climax  at least, from a consumer point of view  was the much anticipated launch of Cupertinos first foray into wrist-mounted gadgetry. Although confirmed by the company in fall last year, Apple Watches only started arriving in the hands of pre-orderers thisApril.Long-standing rumors that Apple was making a wearable arguably fired up and fueled the entire category in earlier years, with rivals scrambling to get their own wrist-based gizmos into the market in the hopes of making amark before Apple could.But with Apple finally having its watch in play thefrenzy to be firstevaporated  and with it a little of the fire that was fueling early wearable developments.Thats not a bad thing, given that hasty attempts to out-do a device that doesnt even exist yet are hardly a perfect recipe for thoughtful product design.So what of Apples wearable? The jury is still out on its utility  reviewers generally failed to articulate what exactly the gizmo is for. And as for sales, Appledoesnt break out Watch sales, but analyst Canalys estimates it sold some 7 million over the first two initial quarters on sale. Not bad for a device without a clear proposition.Those quarters were not holiday season, either. So sales are boundto get a furtherfestive bumpthrough the end of the year.For some comparative contextsales of Samsungs Galaxy Gear smartwatches (pictured below), which have been in the market since debutingin 2013, apparently totaled some 1.2 million in 2014, according to analyst statista estimates.Quite how big and festive the Apple Watch festive bump ends up being remains to be seen.But it seems likely that 2015 ended withApple in second place in the wearables category, behind fitness tracker maker Fitbit  which sold4.8 million devices between July and September.Apple vsFitbit is something of an apples tooranges comparison, given the price-differential between the Apple Watch and Fitbits range of trackers  the latters wearablesstart at less than $50 for itsZip-clip step-tracker and riseto $250 for itsflagship Surge smartwatch. And the fact the Apple Watch offers fitness tracking as one of myriad possiblefunctions, rather than as its raison dtre  as Fitbit does.When it comes to just smartwatches, Apple appears to havetaken aclear lead. By thissummer statistaconcluded the companywas already dominating smartwatches, despite rivals like Samsung havinga categoryheadstart of well over ayear.One notable Apple Watch development as the yearwent on was a collaboration with luxury accessories brandHerms. AHerms Apple Watch leather strap launched in the fall. The odd pairing of an old world luxury brand with newfangled fashion tech underlines how difficult the wearables category is when it comes to satisfying consumerspersonal tastes. The Apple brand may be premiumin tech terms but its still the new kid on the blockin the long-livedworld of luxury fashion.What will be keyin 2016 is how sustainable Apple Watch sales prove to be  as the novelty of a new Apple device wears off leavingthe utility of the watchto prove itself byconvincing buyers they really do need an expensivesupplementary gizmo on their wrist. TechCrunchs own Josh Constine remainsto be convinced.Elsewhere in the smartphonespace,LG canceled its latest smartwatch modelafter less than a week on sale, citing hardware problems.And an embattled HTC, still sweating to turn around its mobilefortunes,delayed the release of a plannedco-branded fitness band with Under Armour. The mobile maker hasso far stayedaway from smartwatches  although rumors areitwill rectify that early in 2016.Misfit sellsMeanwhile in 2015, fitness wearable makerMisfit sold to fashion accessory and watch maker Fossil for $260 million not an amazing return for investors who had put $64.4 million into the company, across three rounds of funding, since it was founded in 2011.Although, from Misfits point of view, its a story of a series of successful investment decisions, not least the $20k the startup spent on itscrowdfunding pitch video which turned into almost$850k in crowdfunds raised via Indiegogo  and eventually that $260M exit to Fossil.The sight of a smaller wearable maker being folded into an established watch brand is interesting from the point of view of determining which is more important for wearables: fashion or technology? Fossil said it will be integrating Misfit tech into its existing watch brands. So its evidently confident in its design smarts. But reckons its just a case of needing to add a little tech to stay competitive. Time will tell on that one.Fitbit IPOsAnother wearables high point this year was Fitbits IPO in June, which saw the values of its shares spikingby as much as 50 per cent as it beguntrading. The company pulled in nearly $740 million from the IPO. Itsshares havecontinued to hold their value.Speaking at TechCrunch Disrupt SF in September, Fitbit CEO and co-founder James Parkdescribed thehealth and fitness category as a prettylarge and diverse opportunity, noting that consumers spend over $200 billion on relatedproducts and services  and arguing that Fitbits kit does not significantly overlap with Apples wearablesplayhere. The companycertainly offers a far larger range of wearablesat this point, and all its devices undercut the Apple Watch on price.Theres going to be a lot of different companies that win in different bits of this market, Parkargued. For us and Apple, we dont see ourselves as directly competitive today. And the numbers show it. Year over year our revenue tripled towards $400 million last quarter. The guidance that we gave analysts forour last earnings call was $1.7 billion in revenue this year, so were doing incredibly well. And I think consumers like the fact that were really focused on the category.Being tightly focused on fitness also seemsto be enablingFitbits brand to transcend the fashion issue which continues tohamperother smartwatch and wearable makers. Point is, if youre intending to sweat on something youre going to be less fussed about how fashionable that something looks.Sweating toil in the wearables packWhile investors rewarded Fitbit by keeping its share price buoyant, other fitness-focused wearable players weathered tougher times in 2015.Early in the yearJawbone, maker of the UP fitness trackers, continued to bebesetwithmanufacturing woes delaying its latest wearable, the UP3 (pictured below). There was in fact no IPO for the company in 2015  instead it got a $300 million convertible loan, and had to shrink operations, includingmakingstaff cuts, going on to slash15 per cent of its workforce in November. Ongoing legal clasheswithFitbit also piled more distractions onto its plate.Rumors of tough times also dogged early wearable darling, Pebble, which revealed early in the year thatithad shipped1 million devices cumulatively, over some three years in the game. Years when it was not having to compete directly with Apple, of course. How Pebble isresponding to competition from the Apple Watch was a question continually  and inevitably  fired at CEO Eric Migicovsky this year.He claimed the company isseeing no material impact from the arrival of the Apple Watch, telling CNBCin November: They are very focused on being the Rolex or the (Tag Heuer) of smartwatches. On the other hand I think we are trying to be the Swatch of smartwatches.We are building something thats fun, a little bit more colourful. Its affordable. At the core, its just a different type of watch.The notifications wristwear-maker kicked things up a gear on the design front this fall, announcing its first round-faced smartwatch  the Pebble Time Round(pictured below)  priced between $249 and $299. The round design entails an unfortunate compromise on the battery life front, shrinking the typical five or six days of juice down to just two  and thereby reducing one big differentiating advantage vs the Apple Watch.Price wise Pebbles flagship remains cheaper than the entry level Apple Watch ($350), however Best Buy in the US discounted the Apple Watch by $100 at the back end of the year  which underlines how Apples pricing is hardly well characterized as akin toRolex levels of luxury. Theres actually only a small premium standing between Apple kit and Pebbles flagships.Apple is also rumored to be planning another Watch event for March 2016. It would not be unusual for Cupertino to reduce the price of an older gen deviceas it launches a new version so that differentiating price margin between the Apple Watch and the rest of the smartwatch field may well shrink further.Whatever happens in the short term, theres little doubtPebble is sitting in a tough spot  squeezed between Apple at the high end and an ever growing sea of mid range smartwatches and notification gizmos allvying for consumer attention.XiaomiundercutsTalking of budget wearables, Chinese upstart Xiaomi got into the space in mid 2014 with a $13 waterproof fitness band, which tracks steps, activity, sleep and more, and has a month-long battery life so is designed to be worn daily, continuing the companysphilosophy of disrupting the competition on price.That hyper budget pricing strategy saw Xiaomi step up its share of the wearables market this year, with analyst IDC estimating ithad taken a quarter of the market by Q1 2015, shipping 2.8 million of its Mi Bands (vs 3.9 million Fitbits). That placed Xiaomisecond globally by mid 2015, when it opened up Mi Band sales to the U.S. and Europe. And third by Q2, behind Fitbit and Apple. Such is the scaleof the Chinese market.Xiaomi added a second wearable device, the Mi Band Pulse(pictured above), in November, also priced very aggressively, at around $15.Rumors that the company would branch out into the smartwatch space have yet to come true but do seem likely given its existing playbook of offering a comprehensiveportfolio of device types tocompete with all the products soldby rivals.That said,fashion is afickle creature. And without a clearly articulated purpose for smartwatches how they look is pretty important  so a budget Xiaomi smartwatch isnt necessarily going to be too exciting from a consumer point of view. Unless its offering some super compelling function.Undercutting the competition on price at least looks set to sustainXiaomi as a significant player in fitness wearables, where looks are less important  provided its strategy of wafer-thin profits is sustainable. And provided itcan see off growing competition from other fast-following Chinese makers also intent on earning a place on consumers wrists.Rings and thingsElsewhere, investors made a few bets on somefashion-focused wearables in 2015, with so-called smart jewelry startups pulling in some dollars.At the start of the year both Ringly and Cuff (the latter pictured, right) raised almost identical Series A rounds in the $5M range. The two startupsplay in the screenless notifications space, and also  in Cuffs case  haveplans to integrate fitness tracking into fine jewelry too in future.Vinaya, which detailed its$3M seed thisfall, is another startupfocused on putting tech inside fine jewelry, embedding notifications systemsinto designerwearables. The general thinking that links all these players is the idea that(some)women want an alternative way to be notified of incoming messages  i.e. without having to keep checking their smartphone.With fashion being such a multifaceted animal there is room for plenty of niche fashion-tech plays to offer an alternative to peoplewho wouldnt be caught dead wearing anugly piece of plastic but might be persuaded to slip on something that can pass ascostume jewelry. But whether any of these businesses canscale into something more significant than a niche playeris a big question mark.The challenge they are setting themselves istwofold: not just producing slick and useful tech features but embedding thosein a designer wrapper that looks good enough to compete with the likes of the Apple Watch and luxury/premium fashion brands who are also targeting this demographic. A tricky balancing act to pull off then.Headsetsget hypedMeanwhile, another kind of wearable  the virtual reality headset  was making waves in 2015. Albeit, mostly hype waves. Or else thekind that make people feel queasy.Consumer demand for virtual reality has yet to be tested but we sure heard a lot of hype about VR this year with tech companies lining up to pour dollars into the idea that The Next Big Thing will beavision-altering headset. Not that we havent heard that line beforeEven beleaguered HTC is betting on the VR space, albeit in partnership with games maker Valve. The pair announced a collaboration thisSpring but the HTC/Valve Vive isnt shipping in any quantities til April next year.Also still in development stasis: the now Facebook-owned Oculus Rift. The $2BN acquisition closed in July 2014 but the headset isnt due to ship til Q1 2016. But youd hardly know that judging by the stream of Rift-based PRbeing issuedthis year as the company attempted to fireup developers to build experiences for its forthcomingheadset, while alsopriming gamersto be ready to slip on a face computer and gawp open-mouthed intoother worlds.The start of 2015 also saw Microsoft get in on the virtual action, when it showed off anaugmented reality headset its building called Hololens. Not full VR but the blended compromise that is augmented reality,whichmixes digital content into a real world perspective. Microsoft demoed itsheadsetbeing used to playgames like Minecraft and for more practical stuff like doing a spot of DIYplumbing.In less positive signs for Redmonds AR vision, by the end of the year itwas laying off Hololens staff without explaining why. Rumors suggest it isnt happy with the techsdevelopment. The devversion of Hololens is not due til Q1 2016 but given therethinking Redmond isalready doing it seems prudent to expect some delays.The biggest winner of the still untested (and largely unformed) VR/AR space in 2015 was perhaps Magic Leap, a stealthy startup thats building some sort of AR headset. Details of what exactly its making are scant but its attracted some big name investors, including Google. And has a serious war chest  of more than $1 billion  at its disposal.In December it emerged Magic Leap had scored a $827M Series C funding round so while the startup still cant bank on reliable consumer demand for vision-disrupting wearables, it can at least say its vision has convinced investors to make some very big bets indeed.AR goes to workFor all Magic Leaps flashy, consumer-focused demos  such as these videos of zombies roaming an officethe more mundane reality of augmented realitymight actually be something early mover Google Glass is now apparently focused on.While Glass never earned more than mockery from the mainstream consumer, it appears to be carving out a niche for itself in the enterprise space, for things like warehousing inventory or security tasks. And while the year began with Google withdrawing Glass from consumer sale, it ended with a report detailing new designs for a more robust enterprise version of the wearable  underscoringthat Google isnt giving up on Glass entirely.Wearing an AR headset for work neatly circumvents the stigma associated with the general public rocking a face computer when mingling withtheir fellow humans. And while pure VR can shut itself away from public ridicule in a private room, ARs pitch tends to involve claims of more general utility because of the blended view it offers. (For instance, discussing Magic Leap this March, Googles Sundar Pichai, who sits on the company board, said Google sees broad use-cases for the augmented reality tech  i.e. not just gaming.)However no-one wants to be walking around alienating strangers by drawing unwanted attention to a gizmo sitting on their nose. So unless Magic Leaps technology is indistinguishable from a pair of glasses its going to have a tough time blending in in a way thats socially acceptable.And even then, people dont want to wear the same pair of glasses. Typically the first decision a glasses-buyer makes is about the style of the frames they reckon suits them. Its a highly personal fashion purchase. So for Magic Leap to really fly it would need to be a technology that can be invisibly fitted to third party glasses frames. No pressure then.Seen from that angle, mid to low range VR headsets like the super budget Google Cardboard, or Samsungs $100 Gear VR, which went on sale this November  which can offer gamers a novel diversion that doesnt break the bank, being as it utilizestheir existing smartphone hardware  haveperhaps the most realistic chance of making a sizable impression with consumers. Samsung certainly made a lot of noise about the Gear VR leading up to its launch. And scored a bespoke game designed for it by London based design studio ustwo  of Monument Valley fame.As things stand right now,the most visible impactof VRremains the distinctive, slack-jawed expressionon the faces of people caught peering into The FutureExpect to see a whole lot more VR mouth in 2016.