Accel Partners wants tosolve the question for startups, Who does this marketing thing I need?Its doing that with an online tool called Growthverse, an interactive visualization of companies in the marketing technology ecosystem. It launched earlier this year but since receiving a lot of feedback, Accel Partners has refined it with a big update today into what it hopes is a tool that helps startups navigate the complicated landscape. Founders can dig into specific areas of marketing technology, finding out which companies build the tools they need and getting a quick glance at each company.Accel Partners Kobie Fuller said that the goal was to produce a tool that showed a comprehensive landscape of the marketing ecosystem  of which, there are several already in existence  that was less overwhelming. Examples of that are finding companies that are focused on paid acquisition or content marketing, and in those circles diving into mobile advertising and videos respectively.Fuller likened Growthverse to an onion, where founders can peel back the layers of the technology they need to find the exact companies they can work with that specialize in those fields.Its still confusing but were doing our part to make it a little easier, he said. If were able to do that, weve done our job. Its a problemwe both emotionally identifywith. If were able to have knowledge and development a platform that can do that, and we can leverage our brainpower and the communities, were done a big service to marketing technologyas a whole.To be sure, tools like this have become more useful as the marketing technology ecosystem has sprawled out. There is a lot of duplication of effort and, inevitably, as an ecosystem gets crowded consolidation happens and the best products need to be sifted out from everything thats out there.A tool like this could be useful to companies to navigate the complex marketing technology ecosystem given how crowded it has become and how much overlap there is.Some have already tried to demystify the ecosystem before. In a sense, Growthverse is kindof a response to the Lumascapes  large chartsof the ecosystem which are incredibly complex and may take a lot of time and effort to understand and navigate. Lumascapes themselves aresomewhat of an example of how complicated and crowded various ecosystems have become.This gives our companies a good primer on whats available out there, 500 Startups distribution partner Tammy Camp said.Accel Partners isnt the only VC firm trying to demystify the startup landscape. Venture capitalists in recent years have started blogs and presented data for startups about various ecosystems. Bessemer Venture Partners, for example, has its State of the Cloud report, and Andreessen Horowitz has its reports like a recentbig report on US tech funding.And of course, theres an opportunity here to find companies that are under the radar ifcompanies request to be included in the visualization  something thats incredibly valuable for firms looking to invest. Thats not the intent of the service, but there certainly is a ton of valuable underlying data, Fuller said.We want marketers to have this as the first resourcethey go to when they are developing their marketing stack, Kaykas-Wolff said. Itsimportant to educate people about the technologiesthatare available. Themore people who tryto help and make those tools freely available, and the more educated marketersare about the technology, the better off all of us are going to be. A rising tide floats all boats.