Can a smartphone messaging app replace the age-old CV in the service industry sector? Thats the premise drivingEuropean startup JobToday, which is targeting the fast flow of service and bluecollar workers with a mobile app that aims to speed up and simplifythehiring process.Its today announcing a $10 million Series A round, led by Accel, along withparticipation from Felix Capital and existing investor Mangrove Capital Partners.As well as aiming to make iteasier for small business owners to find candidates for jobs, the app aims to simplify the search and application process for service industry and blue collar workers, via a low friction, location-based mobile interface. It pledges candidateswill receive a response to a job application made via its platform within 24 hours.Heres how it works: employers and workers create a basic profile on the app, listing a few key details such as language skills/requirements, availability/start date and last previous work experience. Everything elseis done via a mobile messaging interface, so job candidates and employers who like what they see from the coreprofiles/job ads can connect via chatto resolve any specific questions prior to a possible interview.From my experience in retail and what we have seen talking to other business owners, a regular business owner in retail industry, we dont really need a full CV, says Polina Montano, co-founder and COO, who prior to starting JobToday a year ago was managing a chain of petrol stations and dealing with what she describes asthe pain of hiring in the service area on a day to day basis.You need a few key elements which are relevant to certain positions  like youwould like to know the last work experience,you would like to know if this person is available. These are the key elements for them.If you want to post a job, its as simple as typing a WhatsApp message, she adds.The world is moving towards mobile interface.Montano arguesthe big, desktop web-era recruitment giants and job boardsare ill-suited to the segment it istargeting  not least becausea majority of hiring by small businessesstill takes place offline, with paper CVs  hence her ambitionof buildingthe LinkedIn for blue collar jobs.As a SME you areconstantly faced with the challenge of hiring people in short term, saysMontano, arguing that the convenience and speed of a mobile app and mobile messagingis a perfect fit for the time-strappedsmall business owners her startup istargeting.A lot of pre-screening before the interviews happens via chat. So lets say if an employer gets an application he would normally come back to the job seeker asking him relevant questions about the position.Employers shortlist potential candidates within the app, with those not being shortlisted at least being notified that their application did not succeed within a day  a step upon waiting butneverhearing back after handing ina paper CV.For people who work in service industry having a job is not a luxury. Its a must haveThese people cant wait. They need to hear today.We are connecting people instantly via chat on our platform, she adds. People connect, ask questions, people are connecting to jobs ultimately. This is what we are here for. We created this company to help people at the moment they are challenged and lost in the current job market. Its not so easy today to look for a jobIts a daunting task, especially lets say for the lower skilled segment of the population. We just felt that these people need a helping hand to help them find their very best employment.Key industry sectorsits targeting include retail, hospitality, delivery drivers/logistics, and the beauty industry, saysMontano.The applaunched in Spain back in April last year and is now nationwide inevery big city in the country, as well as now also justlaunched in London and Paris. Some of the new funding will go towards working on understanding and serving thespecific market needs of the new cities.What we need to do is we need to strengthen our positions in existing markets and certainly look for new markets and new opportunities within 2016, she notes.At this point JobTodayhas some 20,000 employers signed up  including thelikes of Ann Summers, Deliveroo, Reiss and YouMeSushi and estimates its managed to fill 10,000 jobs since launch eight months ago. (Although it is not explicitly tracking when a personhas been hired via its platform so this is based on analyzing user behavior within the app, says Montano).Its not breaking out user numbers at this point  but will say it hasprocessed two million job applications since launch.Business model wise, its not currently charging employers to list jobs on the platform. The focus is on scaling itsjobs marketplace and attractingcandidates, as youd expect. ButMontano argues the SME segment it targets is used to paying for job-board style services so in the future sees a straightforward route to monetization (assuming it can get the scale).She alsoassertsthere are no direct rivals to JobToday  claiming its the first mobilerecruitment platformtargetingtheservice industry. Its a mass market and so far it doesnt have an adequate mobile hiring solution for the sector, she argues.That said,there is alreadyone rather similar looking app,CornerJob, out in the wild  albeitcurrently focused on the Italian market. So JobTodayis likely going to need to scale fast to outrun a littlecopy-paste competition.And  rather more pressingly  whats to stop an existing mobile messaging platformlike WhatsApp becomingthe de facto conduit for blue collar businesses and jobcandidatesto connect? Not a whole lotit would seem.Earlier this month the messaging giant, which is fast approaching a staggering one billion monthly active users,revealed it is dropping its annual $1 subscription feeand testing more commercial services  including a B2C businessforcompanies to communicate with their customersSo what is to stop WhatsApp eating JobTodays lunch down the line?Just the convenience and the ease of working with resumes which are coming in. We really thought it through, says Montano. I was working in this industry for many, many years and I experienced this pain of hiring workers first hand for my own businesses. And I know what a small business owner is looking for. We understand the value, we understand what exact pain-points mobile interface replaces. And reallyoptimize our interface for the comfort and ease of use.