aCommerce, the Bangkok-based e-commerce enabler that covers Southeast Asia, is closing out the year with a strategic funding deal after it announced that DKSH, a Switzerland-based market expansion firm focused on Asia, bought a 20 percent stake for an undisclosed sum.The investment was not disclosed, but aCommerce said it is an eight-figuresum that will be used to expand its reach in Southeast Asia and pursue new business opportunities.aCommerce was founded in June 2013, it helps retailers and brands manage a range of commerce-related services, including logistics, warehousing, online sales and more. Its rivals include SingPost, which is backed by Alibaba and has been on an acquisition spreeto build out its logistics capabilities in the U.S.aCommerce previously raised a $10.7 million Series A round in June 2014, led by the investment arm of Japans Docomo, and in May this year it took a $5 million injection ahead of a planned Series B. However, aCommerce Group CEO PaulSrivorakul explained that the company opted to take this strategic investment from DKSH and delay the Series B until next year.When we were mapping our Series B round and were ready to find financial investors, this partnercame in. When weunderstood their potential, how big they are and how they can help, [we agreed to this investment,] explainedSrivorakul, whose previous exits include group buying company Ensogo (sold to LivingSocial) and media startup Admax (sold to Komli).Its a minority stake and very strategic,Srivorakul added of the DKSH investment. The valuethey bring is massive and were staying independent. Were not trying to sell [the company to DKSH] and believe we have a big lead on our competition.But were starting to see the region carve out [in terms of e-commerce] and its hard to find a partner who is very similar to our product. A middleware company that is helping brands not logistics or marketplaces [which would conflict with aCommerces customer base]. DKSH will helpexpose us to cross-border and B2B opportunities.On paper, at least, the partnership seems to have plenty of synergy.DKSH, a 150-year-old company thatis listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, is focused on helping companies expand into new markets  DKSH says 96 percent of its revenue comes fromAsia  while a large chunk of aCommerces business is helping brands take their sales and business online.Srivorakul said that the deal will help aCommerce expand its presence in Southeast Asia into Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam.DKSH, which was already a commercial partner for the company, will allow it to make use of its warehouse space,line-haul trucks, and other physical assets to give it a running start.Srivorakul, the aCommerce co-founder, added that this deal is most definitely not a sign of a potential exit.It isntreally in [DKSHs]benefit to acquire us, they want that hungry startup to go public. We feel like we have a market lead I feel like you want tosell when youre number two or three and getting your ass kicked. Plus, asa serial entrepreneur, I dont want to sell early, he said.We fundamentally believe that tech will make everything more efficient, we want to build a platform for that. For every e-commerce transaction,we want to be clipping the ticket, he added of aCommerces longterm goal.Right now, aCommerce has over 150 clients, and Srivorakul said it is likely to spend the next two quarters onboarding new business that the DKSH partnership has sent its way. Interestingly, the aCommerce business is beginning to break even in Indonesia and Thailand  its two largest markets  while overall revenue grew 150 percent in Q4 of this year alone,Srivorakul told TechCrunch.