Setting up encrypted communication by yourself is hard. If youve ever set up PGP for your email or implementedan off-the-record chat in Pidgin, you know that it can be a clunky, burdensome process. Thankfully, cryptographers are working to make iteasier  and a new partnership will make it simpler for app developers to build encryption into their platforms.Twilio, the cloud-based communications platform, announced today that it is partnering with Virgil Security to enable developers to build strong encryption into their messaging services.Just like Twilio lets developers easily add text messaging, voice calls and chat to their apps, Virgil Security gives developers the means to add end-to-end encryption and key management to their products. The partnership between the two companies will allow developers to integrate encryption into their chat features within a few hours.What we are trying to do is make every developer into a cryptologist, says Dmitry Dain, founder of Virgil Security. If you look at what Twilio has done, they have made every developer into a communications expert. What Virgil has done is the same thing for security.Demand for strongly encrypted messaging apps has grown recently, as breaches become more common and concerns over government surveillance increase. WhatsApp, the popular Facebook-owned messaging service, debuted end-to-end encryption for its users in April, and Viber followed suit later that same month. Both companies reportedly worked to establish their encryption systems for years. The Twilio-Virgil partnership will enable startups to add encrypted messaging to their apps within a few hours.Of course, once Virgil Securitys encryption platform is used byhundreds of businesses, itll be essential that its actually as secure as the company claims. (If implemented properly, end-to-end encryption protects the contents of users messages from everyone except the intended recipient  even the company that supplies the messaging service.) Thats why Dain is keeping Virgils cryptography protocol open-source  so it can be audited by anyone at any time. Twilio expects to see most of its clients implementing encryption in its IP messaging service. Twilio executives told TechCrunch that they sawdemand for tightersecurity from the medical and financial industries, which are legally required to keep data secure.But other Twilio customerscould go back and add end-to-end encryption to their messaging systems, as well.It will mean you have to do some re-implementation to put that in, says Twilios Carl Olivier, but it is certainly something that you can add after the fact.Although Twilio is focused mainly on bringing strong encryption to IP messaging, there are some use cases in IoT device verification, as well. Unfortunately, you likely wont see Uber encrypting the text messages you receive when your driver arrives any time soon  Apples SMS messaging isnt open to developer modification.Twilio has launched a tutorial on integrating Virgil Securitys cryptography on GitHub.