Everybody likes a good fitness tracker, but nobody is thinking about the children. The poor dears are being left out of the wearable revolution  looks like its up to Adidas to put a gadget on every wrist and a smile on every PE teachers face. The athletic-goods company aims to equip whole classrooms with standardized heart-rate trackers with the Zone system (no relation to Adams and Archer).The Zone wristbands track heart rate and nothing else, which is a bit limited for a fitness wearable  but its also perhaps the one thing that matters to a PE teacher: activity. Get those kids moving! Doesnt matter if theyre running, jumping rope, playing hoops or cage fighting. The band will show a kids heart rate and a color will indicate the level of activity being registered (low, moderate or vigorous).How is each student identified? The kids arent chipped (what district can afford it?) so NFC it is  the PE teachers laptop will know that when wristband number 22 taps in during fourth period, its Nisha and not Neil.They cost $139 each, or $3,995 for a big case of 28 (a bit optimistic when it comes to class sizes) that doubles as a charge station, though presumably someone will have to hose them down regularly. Teachers can also request up to a dozen devices to test for a month.Thats vigorous on the right, there.Naturally, with all this data about childrens health flying around in the ether, there are security concerns. Adidas is working with Interactive Health Technologies, which claims to reach 600,000 kids at hundreds of schools. Heart-rate graphs will be integrated with IHTs other data, like mile run times, maximum push-ups and any other metric the teacher cares to track.But while skepticism is always warranted where the next generation is concerned (children that is, not the next generation of wearables), its laudable in a general way to try to match the capabilities of technology with the needs (well, needs) of educators, and specifically PE, an hour of the school day often overlooked.Can we quantify our children? We can sure try. Is it worth it? Companies like Adidas, Nike and Under Armour sure think so, but the ones who are in a position to know are the teachers.