Osaro, a new, San Francisco-based startup thats developing advanced machine learning known as deep reinforcement learning, has raised $3.3 million in seed funding to take its technology to market.The money comes from Scott Banister, Jerry Yangs AME Cloud Ventures, and Peter Thiel, for whom Osaro cofounder Derik Pridmore once worked (first at Thiels hedge fund, Clarium Capital, and later as a principal at his venture firm, Founders Fund).Why its interesting: Osarosmachine intelligence software combines perception (which weve seen plenty of in the past, including with image identification) with decision-making abilities that will ostensiblyhelp computer and robotic systems teach themselves to actmore efficiently through trial and error (which weve seen more infrequently).We talked with Pridmore yesterday to learn more about the nine-person startup. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: You dont have any customers yet, but one of the commercial areas youre exploring is industrial robotics. Why should these companies pay attention to Osaro? DP: First, industrial robots arent what the average person thinks they are. They dont have brains. They arent flexible. They are simply very precise motors that require custom programming and then perform actions by rote.That trend used to work, but production runs that used to take a year now take a month [in many cases], and if it takes a month to set up a robot, thats inefficient. [Our technology] enables you to grab a robot and train it a few times and let it start training itself from there. You only have to tell it when its successful or it fails by giving it a score.TC: Do you have beta customers we could name for readers? DP: Were working on a pilot right now. These are complex solutions, so wereworking with companies that have a critical need for our technology.Whats the business model? DP: Our software is like an operating system and well license it.TC: Is there a systems integration component? Who will be training theoperating system?DP: Our end goal is to make it so a low-skilled technician can set up and train one of these [robots], but that wont happen any time soon. For now, well deploy it in niche applications where there really is no other solution and well build out from there.TC: Canyou learn and improve on the product based on how your customers are using it? DP: Thats the super long term goal. If we have [the operating system]in a Foxconn factory and were remotely monitoring the agent on a particular robot, we can learn from that robot and make another robot in another factory smarter if we can get enough data.TC: If youll forgive our asking, are you at all worried about the singularity? DP: I have my own theories about how this will progress. As technologists, we have choices to make about whether we want technologies to make peoples lives better or something else. Obviously Google wants to help, but I worry that all of these companies mission statements need to be a lot more explicit about human betterment as a goal, especially when it comes to AI. For example, in the classic example of a hypothetical paper clips optimizer, if you dont give it other values, it might endlessly produce paper clips regardless of the damage it causes.Algorithms and ultimately robotic systems can be built to be social creatures that look to humans for approval and cooperation. Philosophically, thats what I like about Osaros technology: were programming robots to look to humans for their goals and training.