Remember Danger? The mobile maker Microsoft acquired for $500 millionback in 2008 in the hopes of firing up its mobile fortunes?Things didnt pan out quite so well for Microsoft of course, but Danger co-founder Joe Britt is doing just fine. In fact hes uncloaking hisnew startup today  one hes presumably been ploughing some of hisunspent Danger moneyinto.Were very well funded, Britttells TechCrunch, discussinghis new project, an Internet of Things platform play called Afero,but declining to sayexactly how well funded, nor who his investors are (he will say his prior employer, Google, is not one of them).The team, currently numbering 42 people, has been building Afero instealth since April 2014, filing some 50 patents along the way. Its launching the product and cloud service today, sellingaBluetooth Low Energyconnectivity module for IoT (including a developer board); an SDK anddeveloper tools; and a cloud platform plusRESTful APIs to tie everything together.The basic idea isthat Afero aims to takeaway the headache of figuring out the connectivity layer for IoT devs so developerscan instead focus on whatever thecore functionality of their smart device is  whether theyre building something relativelysimple, like a smart lock, or amore sophisticated IoT device like aconnected home appliance or even a car.Were able to help them by providing this secure connectivity and easy way to interact with their devices without them having to become subject matter experts on a lot of things that may not be relevant to what they really want to do, says Britt. Fundamentally it lets our developers focus on the differentiating aspects of their products, rather than focus on thisnecessity of connectivity that is inherently extremely complex.Brittoriginally movedto Silicon Valleyin the earlier 90s to work for Apple and was most recently clocking time atGoogle on Android projects with Danger (and Android) co-founder, Andy Rubin. So hesalready had a long and lucrative tech career. But thats not stopping him from dreaming bigger.If you look back at my career its always been about these kinds of comprehensive devices that have a hardware component and connect up to the cloud, he adds.In potential scope at least, Aferocould bebigger than Android  given analyst projections about the potential size of the IoT devices market (Gartner forecasts more than 20 billion connected devices by 2020), and the fact Afero ishardware andsoftware agnostic. Its pure play platform philosophyis to integratewith whatever other software or even hardware platforms (Arduino etc) devs want to work withon the rest of their project, but with Afero taking care of theconnectivity piece.The developer can choose whatever hardware, operating system, development tools are most appropriate for the problem theyre trying to solve, or the product theyre trying to build. And then they can augment that product with the Afero module, the SR1, to give it the connectivity that enables it to be a secure connected device, says Britt.This is one of the challenges. For trying to develop a system for giving connectivity to this broad range of [IoT] products without asking the developer to radically change the way that they are building whatever it is that they are building, he adds.The other big push here is on the security side. Britt touts best in class security being baked in to Afero. And while he wont say its hack proof he does stress thatthe security system is hermetically sealed  so this is about reducing risks and using best in class practices. And thats welcome given how much of a wild west the nascent IoT space can beon this front.(NB: Security is not the same as privacy in this instance, so if youre concerned about third party entitiesaccessingdata from your smart devices after its takeninto the cloud for processingthats a whole other set of considerations. Aferossecurity pitch is aboutlockingdown IoTdevice chatter from hackers.)We have an asymmetric key system, very similar to what you use with your computer. It has a tiered key structure, where theres a root key and other keys descend from that. The devices and the service negotiate session keys that have programmable lifetimes. And then in addition to the pure sort of encryption approach, weve also built a number of counter measures into the system to make it difficult to characterize traffic patterns  because thats another vector of attack, says BrittThe core of one of the problems with the other IoT connectivity solutions that weve seen is that when you ask the developer to do the kind of deep integration that other IoT platforms require youre inherently opening up the possibility for either intentional or accidental modification of something in a way that compromises security.The way that Afero was designed, through this module, the security system is hermetically sealed from the device all the way up to the cloud. And so from the developers point of view its very simple  I connect this module to my product and I enjoy all of this higher level functionality  and at the same time I dont have the hazard of inadvertently modifying something thats going to compromise the security, he adds.Afero has hardware partnerships, including with Qualcomm and Murata, for its connectivitymodule. On the customer front, it has signed up companies including healthcare IT systems provider Infocom and toys and video gamers maker Bandai to use its platform to power the connectivity of their connected devices going forward.Britts reckonsthe sweet spot in terms of target customers will be small and medium enterprises, but there will be scope for hobbyistdevelopers to use it too. The business model will include a freemium option for those guys, with pricingscaling to various SaaStiersto accommodate larger entities. The technology itself is built to be scalable from individuals to enterprises.Fundamentally Afero is a services company, he says. For development and experimentation you can pick up one of the development boards, download the software and use it for free. And build prototypes and experiment with it. And then for commercialization of your product then we have different tiers of service model.If you look at the other development systems for adding connectivity that are out there usually theres multiple pieces including fairly substantial components that have to be integrated into the design, adds Britt, holding up the Afero radiomodule, which is less than 1cm square, and includes multiple IO lines that can be configured in different ways to enable the developer to control and/or monitor their device.We have a developer tool that we provide that lets you specify how the module is being embedded in your product, what those IO lines are doing, he notes. Youre able to specify how youre using the product in your design and then the tool automatically generates a number of things for you  it generates configuration data, that goes into the module, for setting it up for your application; it generates a template for the UI, for a mobile application; and it generates a set of RESTful APIs for the cloud, so that you can access it from there. And then all those pieces are deployed from the tool, through the Internet, to each of those different places. And then once thats done you have a completely connected device.So the development process goes from having to understand and learn about a lot of new technology to integrate into your product to sort of picking that off the table and letting you focus on whatever aspects of your product are most important in differentiating.There are startups targeting consumer smart home securitywith a hub device and cloud processing promising to lock down multiple smart devices in your home. And there are also developer-focused startups offering tools, kits and cloud platforms promising to help IoT makers get started prototyping, such as relayr, which look more similar to Afero. But Brittclaims hisapproachis unrivaledin scope and scale at this point.Why is no one else doing this, as heclaims. He argues thats down tovolatility in the IoT space, and companies thinking of the connectivity problem in the classical way  i.e. gathering together disparate parts themselves, rather than a pure platform play. Theyre doing that because there hasnt been another model available. If you think about what accelerated the creation of the web it was tools that made it fast and easy to publish data. And it augmented or extended the existing best practices of the people who were using that as a tool, he says.The other thing that was critical for the development of the web was that it had to be secure. And so sort of distilling everything down to those component parts, and doing it in a way that can co-exist easily with all of these different kinds of embedded systems  its fundamentally a hard problem.The team has been working on this for almost two years now. Weve also had the benefit of being able to cloister ourselves, and think about what are the appropriate solutions to these problems. And at the same time interact with our founding partners [e.g. Qualcomm] to make sure that the technology that were building really did in fact solve these problems.Afero is hosting itscloud services in sixdata centers at this point two on the East Coast U.S., two on the West Coast,and two in Japan. That cloudmodel means there are inevitablyquestions about data transport fromregions like Europe, should Afero secure customers who are selling devices in the region thanks to the current limbo left by the invalidationof the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor data transport agreement. The ECJ decision that struck down that agreement was itself triggered bywider legal concernsabout U.S. government surveillance programs easy access to cloud data. That issue isnt going to go away  however little its on Aferos radar right now.At this point we dont have a customer that is requesting segregated data. Technically there is no problem with spinning up another data center, or data centers in Europe  and imposing different policies for how the data is segregated, says Britt, when asked about this point. I think thats an example of why its better to have these very high level controls, rather than trying to push it down to lower levels where youre just talking about more disparate devices. And so a greater challenge to understand what potential hazards exist within them.