
Jake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.Just when we thought Africa Internet Groups (AIG) 2016 VC haul couldnt get larger, French mobile giant Orange invested $85 million.This followedearlier rounds totaling $326 million (covered here at TC) that brought the e-commerce ventures equity to $1.08bn, making it Africas first startup unicorn. Orange joined other investors, such as Goldman, MTN, and AXA.Theyre betting on AIGs model to deliver goods and services to Africas digital retail marketexpected to tally $75 billion in revenue by 2025. In addition to AIG flagship Jumia, the Nigeria based company operates 8 other e-ventures across 22 African countries. With this kind of big dollar, big name backing the pressure is on AIGs ventures to show profits some quarter soon.On African e-commerce, we cant overlook KongaJumias biggest Nigerian competitor founded by prolific Harvard MBA Sim Shagaya. The digital shopping site is backed by roughly $100 million in VC and has been deploying it to wire e-commerce in Africas largest economy. In April it launchedKongaPay, effectively Kongas PayPal to Ebay.It was actually a bit of relaunch of the payment service, adding new features and extending KongPay toconsumers outside of Konga.coms platform, said current CEO Shola Adekoya. This aligns with Shagayas vision (shared with me in a 2014 conversation) on Kongas mission to create a 21st century operating system to better connect buyers and sellers in Africas longstanding trading culture.In addition to offering a payment method for transactions on Konga.com, KongaPays Me-Commerce option will allow any business in Nigeria to create their own QR payment code from a mobile phone image.Now social networks including Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp will have a new payment option in Africa, claims Konga.In the context of PayPals rise, this could be Africas leapfrogging over PCs to mobile for P2P digital payments. Pretty cool. Well circle back with Konga on KongaPay progress.Coding accelerator Andela, which trains African programmers and places them at global IT companies, held a private New York tech forum in April (that I moderated) for a cross section of NYCs investor community.Speakers included Andelas Jeremy Johnson, VOD startup iROKOtvs CEO Jason Njoku,MallforAfrica CEO Chris Folayan, and Uzo Iweala, CEO of digital media company Ventures Africa. The most salient takeaway was the growing interest in Africas tech scene among U.S. business actorsas evidenced by the events packed attendance.A sampling of the questions, however, reveals this interest is still accompanied by plenty of skepticism. Most of it (at the Andela event) was centered around the baseline infrastructure to do tech in Africa (broadband access, electricity, logistics) and the operating environment (namely political stability and corruption) in key tech markets, such as Nigeria. Well see if some exits, acquisitions, and IPOs in the future do more to prove the African tech thesis to the U.S. business community.On IPO potential, check out the feature we did on power startup M-KOPA Solar, which is lighting low income homes through mobile money leasing. Co-founder and CEO Jesse Moore made it clear the company is more than just a social venture. He and co-founders Nick Hughes and Chad Larson believe the M-KOPA can generate revenues worthy of a billion dollar valuation and a future IPO.Already backed by $52 million in VC the company offers solar-power home systems targeted at lower-income and rural customers without electricity. M-KOPAs baseline box-kit comes stocked with a solar panel, multi-device charger, lights, radio and a pay-as-you-go SIM card. Clients pay it off through small payments on mobile money platforms such Safaricoms M-PESA. Currently in 330,000 households in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, M-KOPA recently expanded in Ghana and plans to enter new African countries in the near future toward 1 million users.Andstay tuned for the 2016 World Economic Forum on Africa in May in Kigali, Rwanda. Theres plenty of African tech going on at the WEF and in Rwanda. Well report on some of it.More African Stories @TechCrunchMore Around the Net