In 2011, Gogoro raised $50 million. Three years later, another $100 million. And yet, no one seems to have any idea what the heck Gogoro does.Until now.Having somehow managed to keep their plans almost entirely under wraps for the last three years, the company is unveiling their first product as CES this morning. We spoke to them a few weeks back.Until today, heres all anyone really knew about the company:To simplify what the company pitches as a complex, many-year plan, Gogoro is making two things for now: an electric scooter they call Smartscooter, and a battery swapping infrastructure to power it.The scooter and the battery network are two sides of the same coin, but the scooter seems like something of a stepping stone  a first move to begin laying the foundation for its battery swapping network, which the company clearly hopes will power many a gadget  vehicular or otherwise  moving forward.Battery CloseupWell start here, as, though seemingly simple, the battery is core to the overarching concept.Gogoro has built a new battery to power its scooter  and, potentially, other things moving forward. The companys founders talk much of their batterys ability to daisychain together to power anything, from leafblowers to full-size vehicles.Built with Panasonics 18650 lithium-ion cells (the same used in the Tesla Model S) and a couple dozen sensors inside, each of Gogoros batteries comes in at about the size of a large shoebox and weighs roughly 20 pounds.When its time for more juice, an app on your smartphone directs you toward the nearest GoStation hub. Each hub, standing about 6 feet tall and weatherproofed to its core, can hold and charge 8 batteries at a time. Hubs can be chained together, as pictured below.Walk up and slip your battery into an open slot; 6 seconds later, a fully-charged battery pops out of one of the other slots.Youre able to reserve a battery before your arrival, ensuring that someone else doesnt swoop your cell while youre en route.Its important to note that unlike, say, Tesla, Gogoro customers never really own their battery. You cant charge this thing at home.Instead, customers are renting the battery by subscription, which gives you access to the swapping network  but at least as of a few weeks ago when I spoke with the companys founders, they still werent quite sure what it would all cost.Distribution and concentration of these GoStation hubs will be key to Gogoros success  no one wants an electric vehicle they cant drive. Theyre hoping to have these things available city-wide in metropolitan areas, with their density scaling relative to the citys population. Their focus, at first, is on places like gas stations  but they note that the hubs can be installed anywhere with a 220v outlet.We can show up with one truck and have it packed with enough hubs to cover a college campus or small city, co-founder Horace Luke tells me.Like the subscription model on the battery, it seemed that the perks for a business owner looking to have a hub installed werent quite set in stone.Gogoro built this thing from the ground up, from the motor to the frame.It goes from 0-30 in 4.2 seconds, with a max speed of roughly 60mph. With both of the scooters two battery slots filled, it has a maximum range approaching 100 miles. Its a city-rider, not a roadtrip horse.As you might expect of a team with so much smartphone blood, its pretty smart.Its connected to the cloud via cellular connection, with 30 onboard diagnostic sensors keeping track of pretty much anything that might go wrong. If something breaks or needs maintenance, youll hear about it the next time you open the app  or, failing that, from the hubs display next time you swap your battery.Meanwhile, the onboard sensors are also gauging the way you ride  both so that the scooter can constantly tweak its own power management to optimize for your riding style, and to offer up tips on how to get better mileage. If you tend to open the throttle too much when going uphill and are just wasting juice, the scooter will tell you.A BluetoothLE keyfob locks and unlocks your scooter, opens your underseat storage, and identifies you at the GoStation hub.Want to tweak the color of your dashboard? Just hop into the app and slide a dialer. Want to change the pattern of lights that blink when you lock/unlock the scooter with the fob? Again, its right in the app.But how much will the scooter cost? Like many other details involving money, the company is still working that out.Its something of a challenge to write about a company like this, as so much hinges on what cant be seen at launch. Does the market want an electric scooter they cant charge at home? Will Gogoros battery eventually find many uses beyond just the scooter, as the company clearly hopes it will? Will they be able to roll out their charging network to a density that makes the whole thing worthwhile?For today, Ill keep my comments limited to what I can see  and thats a damned nifty scooter, with an interesting battery system and a beautiful smartphone app to go with it. The scooter is quite a sight to see  as much as a scooter can be pretty, its really quite pretty.