It seems like everyone wants to build a virtual assistant that you communicate with via text message. In the case of New York City startup Agent Q, its an assistant that helps you shop online.Co-founders said Rmi Cossart and Pramod Thammaiah pitch their service as a combination of Magic and Consumer Reports. Users should be able to text Agent Q with the details of what theyre shopping for, then the startup will provide a recommendation and, if asked, even make the purchase for them.For example, when Cossart and Thammaiah stopped by the TechCrunch office before the launch, they started a chat with Agent Q, saying that they wanted to purchase a bike pump. Maybe a minute later, it came back with a description of arecommended pump and asked if they wanted to buy it.Behind the scenes, Cossart said the recommendation was coming from a human augmented by AI. So theres a team of people (specifically Agent Q employees) responding to your text messages, but theyre taking advantage of the data the company has aggregated across the web (including professional reviews, customer reviews and more) and some pre-written answers for popular queries.In the demo, I was also struck by how little back-and-forth there was. What about getting all the specifications of what youre looking for and comparing different options? Not surprisingly, the degree of interaction will vary depending on the product. In some cases, Agent Q needsmoredetails, but bike pumps (as Thammaiah put it) are all roughly the same  so why not skip aheadand give you a solid recommendation from the start?Of course, if you dont like Agent Qs recommendation, you can always refine your search by replying, I want something cheaper or whatever. And over time, the service will learn more about your preferences.So why use a more narrowly focused text assistant, rather than something that can accomplish a broader set of tasks, like Magic or Facebooks M? Cossart argued that by limiting their product to shopping, they can deliver a better user experience: By specializing and staying focused, we can be really good at helping users shop rather than being mediocre at doing a lot of things like finding a bar, food ordering, helicopter booking, etc.Our view is that this its all about user trust and focus, he said. The way to get user trust is to give more than just the Im feeling lucky result. The best user experience is giving users not only a curated choice but also a clear explanation as to why its the best choice.Thammaiah has some experience with online shopping, having worked as a product manager on Google Shopping. He and Cossart (formerly a senior analyst at Cornerstone Research) said theyve been friends since fourth grade.The startup is currently accepting sign-ups for the waitlist. The first 100 TechCrunch readerswho register here will get to jump the line.Oh, and in case you were wondering,Cossartsaid that Q doesnt stand for anything, at least not officially. Maybe theyre open to suggestions.