As Airbnb continues to work through negotiations with hotel and housing regulatorsin some markets, its not wasting any time in buildingout its footprint globally. Theaccommodation rental juggernaut is partnering with T-Mobile parent Deutsche Telekom to preinstall its app in Android smartphonessold across 13 markets in Europe, including DTs home market of Germany. Those who register for the service through DT will get 30 ($35) vouchers to stay in Airbnb rooms.Airbnb has notably partnered with the likes ofbusiness travel platform Concur(alongside Uber) to integrate its accommodation inventory and build up its business in the corporate market. Airbnb tells me thisis thefirst time the company is working with a carrier to expand its business.Its borrowing from the playbook of other startups that have popularmobile apps, which have turned to carrier partnerships to pick up more users. Examples of others include Spotify, Evernote, Pinterest andTwitter, who have worked out, variously, preinstalled app and widget/homescreen deals, discounts on premium subscriptions and more.Partnering with a carrier in Europe gives Airbnb more exposure outside of its home market of the U.S. and also continues to push thatmobile card.We are happy to have such a strong partner as Deutsche Telekom on our side, says Christopher Cederskog, Regional Manager Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Southeast Europe at Airbnb, in a statement. The partnership will allow us to focus even more on mobile devices and address new users throughout Europe. A spokesperson tells me that DT doesnot at the moment have plans to expand this to the U.S.For Deutsche Telekom, this is part of the carriers bigger strategy to partner with big-name tech companies to build out services, rather than trying to develop non-core services in-house.Airbnb is a pioneer and trailblazer in the sharing economy. The concept perfectly reflects our brand promise, Life is for sharing, says Niek-Jan van Damme, a board member at Deutsche Telekom overseeing innovation. Through our partnership, we can give our customers a great benefit with the 30-euro voucher.The wider context is that DTlate last year outlined this strategy along with announcing a new, $620 million fund for strategic investments in third party companies. But both DT and Airbnb confirm to me that it is not investingin Airbnb. There is no investment, an Airbnb spokesperson says.This is a strategical partnership. We did not invest in Airbnb, the DT spokesperson also confirms, also noting that the companies not talking about financial agreements. But I can tell you that both companies see this as a very interesting cooperation.To date, Airbnb has disclosednearly $800 millionin funding.Coincidentally, DT also invests in Airbnb competitor 9flats. We are still investing in 9flats. But we do not see any conflict here, the spokesperson says. We see the Sharing Economy as a growth field and want to participate on different levels. Further on 9flats mainly focuses on customers in Germany and Western Europe. Airbnb has a more international approach and addresses all the countries in our footprint. Therefore they are the perfect partner to do a promotion in all our markets.The Airbnb app will startto bepreinstalled on all Android devices sold by DT fromthis spring.The countries covered in DTs footprint in Europe areAlbania, Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Macedonia, Montenegro, Netherlands, Poland, Romania and Slovakia.Updated with more comment and detail from Airbnb and Deutsche Telekom.