Airbnb  the platform that lets travellers book privatespare rooms and entire homesas an alternative to traditional hotels  is doing some booking of its own. Airbnbis in the process of raising another round of funding that will value itat $20 billion, according to sources familiar with the situation.The company is believed to be in the process of raising a war chest of close to $1 billion  with about half of that secured. Weve heard that Airbnbhas been courted by investors out ofAsia, as well aslarger private-equity groups. Weve not been able to confirm the exact names yet, but one that has come up is Fidelity. Previous investors in the company include TPG, T. Rowe Price, Dragoneer, Founders Fund, Sequoia, DST and more.Airbnb, founded in 2008 and based inSan Francisco, hasbeen on a growth tear in the last several years.Itsone of the leading players in the rise of sharing economy startups, built on the idea of everyday consumers leveragingtheir own resources  in this case, rooms in their homes, or the whole home itself  in a wider marketplace. That marketplace is powered by Airbnbs tech, which makes it very fast and easy for hosts tolist, and visitors to find, book and pay for a room or home.Airbnb is currently active in 34,000 cities in 190 countries. It has over 1million listings on its platform and has racked up 30 million nights booked.Airbnb haslately been taking its expansion into a higher gear: adeal cut last year with Concur is evidence of how it istapping into the corporate travel market; and it also announced a partnershipwith Deutsche Telekomearlier this week.The corporate market will potentially mean much higher margins, while the carrier deals will be one more play for gaining more critical mass, particularly among mobile users: it will be the first time that Airbnb has worked with a carrier to preload its app on millions of Android devices.But itsgrowth has not been without hiccups. Like Uber, Airbnb hasfaced a lot of backlash from the businessthat its disrupting  in Airbnbs case, the hotel industry. Regulators have raised questions about the legality of private individuals renting out rooms, and the question of whether these are getting taxed adequately. Some of these, such as in its home town of SF,have been settled, while others, such as the ongoing case in New York,continue to simmer.The company has also seen a fair amount of controversyand concern over property damaged duringAirbnb stays. Here, too, its trying to address the problems: In November the company rolled out a $1 million liability insurance program for hosts.To date, Airbnb has disclosed raising close to $800 million, but as with fellow sharing-economy juggernaut Uber, the companys rapid growth is leading to a lot of investors knocking on Airbnbs door. In April 2014, the company raised $450 million at a $10 billion valuationled by TPG. In October, the company did a secondary round of $50 million at a $13 billion valuation (this was reported by the WSJ at the time; and we can confirm that was correct).