At this years Disrupt NY, previous finalists and winners of Startup Battlefield will once again take the stage. But not to pitch their companies. Instead Alfred, Layer and Trello will update Disrupt attendees on the status other companies.Last year Alfred won Startup Battlefield at Disrupt SF. The Boston-based company attempts to manage your routine across multiple on-demand and local services (like Handybook, Instacart, and the local dry cleaner). Members build a subscription to make their routines automatic, letting Alfred coordinate services in their home.Just two months after winning Startup Battlefield, Alfred went live in NY on the back of raising a $2 million seed round, and earlier this month, the company announced it had closed a $10.5 series A.Layer took home the Startup Battlefield Cup at Disrupt SF 2013 and quickly a $14.5 million series A several months later. The company launched on the promise to make it possible for developers to add rich messaging capabilities to their apps without having to build their own infrastructure. Last February the company debuted a new produced called Atlas, a toolkit that will allow developers to even more quickly integrate or customize an iMessage-like messaging feature in their iOS or Android applications.Trello was a finalist at Disrupt SF 2011 and raised a $10.3 million Series A in the summer of 2014. The company attempts to differentiate itself from other task-management software in that it focuses on a new media type. Meant to be the whiteboard of the digital world, Trellos platform focuses on the life cycle of a certain project, from start to finish, giving the user a birds-eye view of the way a team builds something out of nothing.In all,508 companies have participated in the Startup and Hardware Battlefields. Together, the companies have raised a combined $4.4 billion, and 67 have found an exit either by being acquired or going public.This years Startup Battlefield class is as strong as ever. During Disrupt NY next week, 25 startups will take the stage in a bid to win $50,000 and the Startup Battlefield Cup.General admission tickets for Disrupt NY are available here. If you cant make it, the conference will be streamed live on TechCrunch.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.