It looks like Alibaba is in the mood for more acquisitions. The companys recent investment spree  which includes the ongoing $3.5 billion purchase of Youku Tudouandstakes in Groupon, PayTM,Snapdealand Snapchat  is about to get fresh ammunition after itconfirmedthat it has closed a $3 billion loan.Confirmation of the dealisnt unexpected,the Wall Street Journal reported talks with banks in February but the total announced today is shy of the $4 billion that the Journal speculated.From the SEC filing:Alibaba Group Holding Limited today signed a five-year US$3 billion syndicated loan agreement with a group of eight lead arrangers. The loan, which is subject to upsize through oversubscriptions in syndication, has a five-year bullet maturity and is priced at 110 basis points over LIBOR. The use of proceeds of the loan is for general corporate purposes.Its not exactly clear what general corporate purposes might mean  weve asked Alibaba for further details of its plans  but M&A activity seems highly likelysince Alibaba has ramped up its investment efforts lately.Media is onemajor focus for Alibaba,vice chairman Joe Tsai admitted after it lodged a bid for Youku Tudou, Chinas largest video portal. Tsai said services like Youku Tudou,which claims a monthly viewership of more than 500 million people, and microblogging service Weibo, another Alibaba investment, can help it grow its user analytics and advertising reach to increase sales and marketing. Other investments that fit within that focus might be on the cards.Outside of its domestic business, India is a market whereAlibaba is increasingly active. CompanyPresident Jack Ma oftenspeaks of Indias vast potential and thats one reason why the Chinese firm is sinking hundreds of millions of dollars into Indias top startups.PayTM, the companythat offers a mobile wallet service and e-commerce much like Alibaba, is one horse that Alibaba has backed. In addition to two investments, it has begun building bridges between PayTM and its own e-commerce services, enabling sellers in China to access Indias vast population and India consumers to buy Chinese products more easily.But Alibaba isnt relying on one company. It invested in Snapdealand, this year, Indian media reported that it was in negotiations to buy a stake in arch rival Flipkart. Itll be interesting to see if this new cash goes towards Flipkart, since that would leave Alibaba backing the three biggest companies that rival Amazon in India.