It looks like March 2016 is a good time to be an Alibaba affiliate company.Last week, it emerged that Ant Financial  which runs Alipay among other businesses  is raising a billion dollar financing round at a valuation of up to $60 billion. NowCainiao, a three-year-old Alibaba-backed logistics firm, has confirmedits maiden external funding round fromTemasek Holdings and GIC in Singapore, Malaysias Khazanah Nasional and China-based Primavera Capital.The size of the deal is undisclosed and an Alibaba spokesperson declined to provide details when we asked, however financial news siteCaixin reports [Google Translate] that it is upwards of 10 billion yuan ($1.54 billion) at a 50 billion yuan ($7.7 billion) valuation.Alibaba is famous for being one of the worlds largest e-commerce companies and, among many feats, holding the largest U.S. IPO in history. But it also has a number of affiliate companies that cover related verticals and are not included in the parent company.Cainiao is logistics. It was foundedin 2013 with the goal of creatinga UPS-style backbonetoenable deliveries across China and international markets while tapping intobig-data and other technology to increase efficiency.Today, it claims to have 128 warehouses and 180,000 express delivery stations in China, offering same day delivery in seven Chinese cities and next day delivery in a further 90. To give some idea of scale, Cainiao handled278 million packages just fromthe 11/11 shopping sale in 2014 alone.And this isjust the start. Cainiao president Judy Tong told Freight Week last yearthat the company will spend $16 billion over the next five to eight years to make it easy to deliver goods to anywhere. Thats worldwide, not just China.Cainiaowas formed by a consortium of existing logistics playersto give the project a running start with resources and customer bases. Alibaba itself took a 48 percent stake but it isnt clear how the business of that is panning out. Since, as the New York Times points out, this (and other Alibaba investments in logistics and online-to-offline) are opaque since the retail giant isnt requiredto disclose financial details.Beyond handling packages from e-commerce sites and merchants, Cainiao coverseveryday logistics too, with fresh groceriesamong its verticals. Tie-ins with retailers like Suning, which Alibaba invested $4.6 billion into last year, could help physical retailers improve their use of the web to grow their customer base and engagement.Cainiao has flown under the mediaradar thus far  perhaps becauselogisticsisnt sexy to some?  but it is developing into ahugely important project for Alibaba since logistics are centralto the success ofAlibabas core e-commerce businesses.Alibabas services dont hold inventory, which is where Cainiaos delivery footprint can becomplementary. Further,Cainiaos efforts to build a global network are aligned withAlibabas ownfocus on growing its retail networkoutside of China. Heres more on Cainiao for those who appreciate cute videos:Hat tip Barons