Alibaba, the Chinese commerce firm which heldthe largest IPO in historylast year,is bringing its cloud computing services to the U.S. after announcing adata center in Silicon Valley.The base  the location of which Alibaba isnt revealing for security reasons  is the first for its Aliyun division outside of China, where it claims 1.4 million cloud services customers. The company has four data centers in China and one in Hong Kong,and itplans to expand thatreach into Europe and Southeast Asia before the end of the year.Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google, and Microsoft are among the dominant cloud players in the U.S. and Aliyun will offer a number of similar services.That includes avirtual serve,load-balancing for companies running websites, and a data processing and storage cloud. There is also a data security service that guards against DDoS attacks  YunDun  whileAliyun will provide large-scale data storage in the future.Aliyun has not revealed specific prices at this point, other than that itsserviceswill be cost competitive. It addedthatit will initially target Chinese companies with business interests in the U.S., but plans to ramp up its appeal to international companies in the second half of this year.The expansion is significant for being Aliyunsfirst overseas,but the companyplayed down its initial foray into the U.S. market.For the time being, we are just testing the water, Sicheng Yu, Aliyun VPand head of international, said in a statement. We know well what Chinese clients need, and now its time for us to learn what U.S. clients need.One area where Aliyun may have an edge over the competition is with U.S. companies that are looking for similar services in China. AWS has operated a limited beta service in China since last year, but Aliyun has wider scale there. For example, the company cited its ability to keep Alibabas services online during 11/11, Chinas largest online shopping event. Last year, the group processed 80,000 deals per second at peak, with a total of $9.3 billion in product soldover the day.