AlienVault, a company that delivers a hybrid threat management solutions combined with a crowd-sourced threat intelligence platform, announced a $52 million investment round today.The company boasts 24,000 registered users with 2,200 paying customers and has been adding 300-400 customers every quarter. Investors likedthe growth trajectory and decided to pursue a round,company CEO Barmak Meftah told TechCrunchWhats more, AlienVaultis beginning to attainthe size and scale that a company reaches just prior to an exit, Meftah said. He wouldnt commit to an IPO or any specific date of course, but the money will help lay the groundwork for it down the road.We are scratching the surface of how big we can be. An IPO exit is something we aspire to, he said.The company actually hired an experienced Chief Financial Officer recentlywhen it brought Brian Robins, former Verisign executive VP and chief financial officer on board. This type of move often precedes an IPO as a startup begins to shore up its financial systems.The round was led by Institutional Venture Partners (IVP) with Trident Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and GGV Capital also participating. Todays investment nearly doubles AlienVaultstotal raised to around $116 million, according to Meftah.The company actually wasnt looking for the money  and still has money in the bank from previous funding rounds  but when investors came knocking with favorable terms, it was an offer Meftah couldnt refuse.The company has a couple of key products:Unified Security Management(USM) and The Open Threat Exchange threat sharing platform. The latter is free and doesnt require you to be an AlienVault customer, but much like with open source, becoming a customer offers several key advantages including integration with the USM threat management dashboard.Meftah says even though itcreated The Threat Exchange withthe idea of being good security citizens, the factthat it often acts asa business feeder is a nice benefit.The USM has been designed to help small to medium sized business (SMBs) manage threat security. Large companies have the resources to protect themselves, but AlienVault is looking at the lower end of the market that traditionally has not invested heavily in this type of protection because its been too expensive.As any company in expansion mode,AlienVault has beenadding employees.Ithas 201 at present,and is hiring aggressively, particularly in sales. We cant hire enough sales reps, Meftah said.The companysrevenue streams are divided into two areas. First, it hasthe threat appliances, which itsells as hardware, virtual machines and as a cloud service. Itcan make additional revenue on support and subscriptions to threat intelligence information.The other part comes from channel partnerships withmanaged security service providers, who wrap the AlienVault products into a service and sell it to their customers. So far Meftah says the arrangement has worked out quite well and now accounts for 20-25 percent of the companys business.Meftahdoesnt intend to go crazy with the new funds. The trend in Silicon Valley is to burn through cash.We want to keep an eye on our burn so all of financial parameters look attractive, he said.