Oops!A number of users have been reporting error messages and other issues with softwaredownloaded from the Mac App Store that prevented them from using their apps. The warnings prompted them to delete and then re-install their apps, but this was not necessarily correcting the problem, customers found.The issue, as it turned out, was related to Apples failure to renew asecurity certificate. And while Apple quickly addressed the problem by issuing a new certificate with an expiration date of 2035, many users continued to face problems. [Post updated: See further explanation below.]In order to use their apps once again, customers needed to be online and reauthenticate with the Mac App Store using their Apple account information, but not everyone was able to do that immediately. Somehad also forgotten their iCloud passwords, compounding the issue, reported The Guardian, citing Twitter users postings.And the process of deleting and reinstalling all the applications customersever bought on the Mac App Store certainly angered many as well, leading them tovent their frustrations on Twitter.Users discovered the issue for themselves when they attempted to launch and run their apps. Error messages confused users, by saying that the app was damaged and needed to be re-installed.For developers, the situation was something of a customer service nightmare, too, as users would reach out to the app maker, instead of assuming the problem was related to the Mac App Store itself. Meanwhile, there was nothing developers could actually do to address the issue on their own  as Apple needed to re-issue a new certificate. (Which it has now done.)These security certificates are used to help prevent malware and other unauthorized applications from running on end users machines. But theissue has brought to light one of the challenges associated with a closed ecosystem like the Mac App Store when it comes to desktop applications.While a centralized directory of approved apps makes things easier for consumers who no longer have to scour the web for software, it also introduces a single point of failure into the equation. Its rare that a glitch of this size happens, but when it does, it can be fairly wide-reaching.The problem was first spotted by Tapbots developer Paul Haddad on Wednesday, who realized the issue was related to an expired certificate.Users have reported that theyve solved the problem by logging out of the Mac App Store then signing back in. Others said a reboot fixed things.Apple has not yetpublicly commented on the situation.Well that would explain the MAS problem. pic.twitter.com/Nuqj9Uxxiz Paul Haddad (@tapbot_paul) November 12, 2015I bet every MAS app contacting the iTC servers simultaneously is causing a self inflicted DDOS on Apples receipt generation service. Fun! Paul Haddad (@tapbot_paul) November 12, 2015Uh, Apple, why are a bunch of my Mac App Store apps suddenly damaged?! pic.twitter.com/Afby6j5VtS Graham (@greyham) November 12, 2015UPDATE, 11/13/2015, 2 PM ET:As it turns out, the Mac App Store issue didnt affect all the Mac store applications, though it did affect a fair number (more than a dozen, say, but less than 100). And it wasnt entirely about asecurity certificates expiration.Instead, what happened was that Apple made some assumptions about the technology app developers were using, and thetesting process missed what turned out to be a big issue.Apple issued a new, stronger (SHA-2) Mac App Store certificate in September, before the older (SHA-1) one expired, as planned.The new Mac App Store certificate wasusingthe current, strong SHA-2 algorithm. However, some apps wererunning receipt validation code using very old versions of OpenSSL that dont support SHA-2.OpenSSL started supporting SHA-2 in 2005, which is why Apple didnt foresee thisissue. Apple hassince returned the cert to SHA-1 and its developer relations team is nowworking with the apps in question to have them update their validation code.After the certificate was updated some users had to restart their systems and re-authenticate with the Mac App Store to clear a system cache of some outdated certificate information, but only those using affected apps. That means not all users were affected.The issue also highlighted the fact that Apple has no way to communicate with its larger development community or consumers via social media, when it comes to the Mac App Store. While the company wouldnt have commented on the problem until it investigated further  and is still not commenting publicly  a Mac App Store Twitter account could have at least acknowledged the situation and said it was looking into a solution.