Today was a huge day for Alphabet the first day it finally broke out its other bets in its earnings report  and boy did the company not disappoint.The company smashed expectations on both ends, bringing in $21.3 billion in revenue and earnings of $8.67 per share. Analysts were expecting earnings of $8.09 on $20.8 billion in revenue.And with that, Alphabet becamethe most valuable publicly-traded company in the world  coming in at a market cap $558 billion after jumping about 8% after the company reported its fourth-quarter earnings, and passing Apple, which sits at a market cap of $535 billion.There werent any huge surprises on the earnings call that caused the stock to dip, butits ranking still depends on whether or notthe company givesup those gains in extended trading. Either way this is a significant moment for the company and the technology market in general. Alphabethad a hugeopportunity to finally pass Apple as the most valuable company in the world.Theres a clear narrative here. Alphabet, a software company with a few extra hardware bets, shares have dramatically outperformed those of Apple, a hardware company with a few extra software bets.Our very strong revenue growth in Q4 reflects the vibrancy of our business, driven by mobile search as well as YouTube and programmatic advertising, all areas in which weve been investing for many years, CFO Ruth Porat said in a statement with the earnings report.In the past year, Apples stock has not performed well.Meanwhile, Googles stock was on the rise for the past 12 months.So, not surprisingly, the two quickly collided in terms of their market capitalization.Googles core businesses continue to grow as well  today the company said that Gmail grew to 1 billion active users. That means it has about half a dozen services that have around 1 billion active users, a number most companies (other than perhaps Facebook, which said today that WhatsApp had passed the 1 billion user mark) willenvy. (CEO Sundar Pichai didnt specify if that was daily actives or monthly actives, so well probably assume the latter.)In terms of Googles core advertising business, cost-per-click fell 13% year-over-year, while paid clicks increased 31% year-over-year. This has been a trend for Google  as more activity shifts to mobile devices, the value of each advertisement click tends to go down. Googles core business is still printing money, to be sure.Googles extraneous operations, like Nest, have never been separate from its core business. So investors have had basically no idea how its other projects are going  and how much they may contribute to the company  other than estimates. Google has gotten into all sorts of other areas, but now we have a rough idea of how those other areas are performing.So far, that bet is growing in revenue at least: other bets accounted for $448 million in revenue in 2015, up from $327 million in revenue in2014. That being said, it showed huge widening losses  going to a loss of $3.6 billion from $1.9 billion in 2014.Google, too, is still not immune to whats happening with foreign exchange rates and the general global economy. Revenue was up 18% year-over year, though in constant currency it would have risen $24%. Apple, for example, said there was a difference in $5 billion in revenue if not for foreign exchange rates, and for Google that represents about $1 billion in revenue.Perhaps this is a signal of the challenges hardware businesses are going to face. Apples growth engine  one of the strongest in the world for the longest time  has started to stall as it faces economic headwinds globally. Theres also the question of saturation, and how willing people are to upgrade. Meanwhile, people are still searching and using Googles software relentlessly, and the company is starting to place money on other bets.