Amazon is today expanding its grocery delivery options for U.K. consumers with the launch of its Amazon Pantry service to Prime subscribers in the U.K. The service allows shoppers to fill a box with household items like detergent or tissues, baby care items, pet items, and food and drink items that dont need to stay cold or frozen, and more. In the U.K., the box can be filled up to 20 kg for a flat fee of2.99, then any additional boxes cost0.99.The box will arrive on U.K. shoppers doorstep thenext day after the order is placed, says Amazon.This same service is already live in the U.S., also for Prime members, where boxes cost $5.99 to deliver, but here Amazon doesnt guarantee Prime, 2-day delivery, according to its FAQ, which notes that U.S. boxes are sent via ground shipping.This is one of several moves Amazon has made in recent months to bring more grocery and household delivery options to the U.K. market.The company earlier this year introduced its one-hour delivery service Prime Now in London, which includes delivery of fresh and frozen items.It also added a same-day shipping optionthis month, which lets you order from an inventory selection of one million items, including household goods. And the company tested its Amazon Fresh grocery delivery service to the U.K. this fall, which focuses on doorstep delivery of chilled and frozen items, fresh produce and more.In other words, Amazon Prime members in the U.K. today have a range of options when it comes to how they want to shop from home, in order toeliminate a trip to the grocery store.Unlike here in the U.S., where grocery delivery services are still something of a novelty, allowing companies like Instacart to gain ground as more consumers warm up to the idea of on-demand grocery shopping, a number of U.K. retailers already offer grocery delivery services, includingTesco, Ocado (Waitrose), Sainsburys, ASDA and others.U.K. consumers are used to ordering grocery items online or by way of apps, and you dont have to be a member of a service to use them, typically. However, there may be delivery charges involved that Amazon couldundercut.Due to the competitive landscape, U.K. consumers may be drawn to Amazon Pantry not because it offers a convenient alternative to in-store shopping, but because it offers greatdeals and discounts on its items. More importantly, Amazon Pantrys debut is just one more reason for consumers to join Amazon Prime  which is how Amazon really makes its money, as Prime shoppers are said to spend double or more than non-Prime members.To further entice consumers to sign up for its membership program, Amazon has also discounted the price of Prime by20 ahead of Black Friday, and timed with Pantrys launch. For a limited time, ayears subscription to Prime is59, down from 79 price. The offer is available this Sunday, November 15 throughWednesday, November 18.