Amazon has been quietly building out an ecosystem of applications for itsconnected device, the Amazon Echo. While nowhere near as well-known or buzzed about as the two top app stores on the market today  Apples iTunes App Store and Googles Play Store  theEcho app store, aka the Skills section in the Amazon Alexa mobile app, has now grown to over 130 applications. Thats not a bad showing for the still relatively new, voice-controlledspeaker, which only began rolling out its first third-party applications in August.You may have not been aware that Amazon was even running a second app store, in addition to its better known Amazon Appstore where it offers a selection of mobile apps for Android and AmazonFire devices. After all, the Alexa app doesnt even refer to its list of third-party software as apps, rather referring to these add-ons as skills instead  meaning, thingsthat expand the functionality of the Alexa-powered Echo speaker.Alexa, in case youre unaware, is Amazons own version of something like Apples Siri or Google Now. Its a voice-activated assistant that lets you ask questions, create tasks and shopping lists, order things from Amazon, hear the news and weather, play music, set timers and alarms, andeven control a number of smart home devices like lights and switches.The first third-party applications debuted this summer for Echo, with StubHub being one of the bigger names to arrive, allowing you to ask Alexa about different activities taking place nearby.Now the Echos app store has 135 of these additional skills available, at last count.A lot of these appsare really goofy  things yourkids may like, such as a fart app (yes, youre not an app store until you have one of these!), an insult app called Angry Bard, plusvarious joke applications andtrivia games, like Cat Facts or Dog Facts. (These are not exactly high-quality applications, mind you.)Our Amazon #Echo can now fart on command. pic.twitter.com/GkgLZslmLd Tony Summerville (@summerville) January 1, 2016//platform.twitter.com/widgets.jsHowever, there is a growing number of more noteworthy and practical  apps arriving on Echo as well.This list includes things like the health-focused 7-Minute Workout app; a voice-powered TV remote from AnyMote; news and weather apps from bigger names like AccuWeather, AOL, HuffPost, oh, and TechCrunch (disclosure!); an app that reminds you where youve parked your car and how much gas you have left from Automatic; a recipe finder from Campbells; a bartenders guide to mixing drinks; various apps to check local transit schedules; event guides from Bandsintown.com and the above-mentioned StubHub; stock quotes from Fidelity; a family locator from Glympse; a universal translator app; and even interactive games you play with Alexa like Word Master, Bingo, or Animal Game, for example.The problem is that finding the betterappsamong the clutter is still a challenge, given that the Echosapp store is fairly bare bones.Today, there are no category sections or top lists, for instance. You have no way to tell whats trending, popular, or recommended. Plus, it could be confusing to end users that app developers suggest usingdifferent trigger phrases to launch their apps.(In some cases, the developer says totell Alexa to open the app. Other times, you tell Alexa to ask the app a question.) That could have people installing apps (i.e., the skills) but then forgetting how to launch them.But there are signs that Amazon is working to turn Echosselection of miscellaneous add-ons into something that betterresembles a real app store. Just before Christmas, for example, the company introduced support for standard app store features like a search engine and customer reviews that involvestar ratings. That means its noweasier to find apps to use with Echo, as well assee if other Echo owners liked the apps youre interested in using.Unfortunately, the implementation suffers a bit at present. A test to surfaceapps that we know exist usingobvious keywords like news, travel, or events, returned only partial search results. In other words, Echos app store still has far to go.Of course, none of the app storesprogress would matter except for the fact that Amazons Echo is becoming one of the more popular smart home devices on the market today. At a sub-$200 price point, the speaker has been praised as being impressive, accurate, natural to use, whileoffering a Star Trek computer-like experience for the home.And while Amazon notoriously releases the vaguest sales figures for its devices, its telling that the Echo was the companys top-selling device on Black Friday, across all devices over $100. Today, itcontinues to hold a top 5 spot in Amazons list of best-selling electronics devices. Plus,the speakerhas a four-and-a-half star rating even as it nears 30,000 customer reviews.For the simple reason that the Echo itself is finding its way into more customer homes, the importance of itsadd-on app store may also grow over time. The question for developers, however, is whether building Alexaapps will eventually be profitable enough to be worth the trouble. After all, today, Alexas skills are free add-ons. But as the ecosystem grows, Amazon could potentially offer the ability for developers to monetize their apps through paid downloads or  who knows?  voice-controlled purchases  in the future.