Amazon Household, the program that allows adults living under the same roof to share their Amazon Prime benefits, including free shipping and access to Prime Video streaming, has been expanded today, to now include Prime Photos storage. That means that each account holder will receive unlimited photo storage in the cloud plus an additional 5 GB of storage for videos and other files.Until today, photo storage was one of the few options that the Household program didnt include, as it already allows members to share e-books, audiobooks, apps and games across their shared devices.Free photo storage in the cloud is the new baseline for photo-sharing services, it seems.Google, for example, offers unlimited free storage for photos in high quality on Google Photos, and only charges if you want to save youroriginal quality images. Flickr, meanwhile, offers a terabyte of free storage, which is more than enough room for most peoples photo libraries (for now, at least). And though Facebook doesnt currently emphasize it, if you turn on the option to automatically sync your smartphone photos to a private album on its social network, it never seems to run out of room.Similar to other free photo storage sites, Amazon Photos has some restrictions. Photos you upload from your desktop browser must be less than 2 GB in size (to go beyond that, you have to usethe Cloud Drive desktop app), and there are some limitations (though not many) on supported formats. For instance, many RAW file types are supported, but not all.In addition, Amazon says that itsfree, unlimited photo storage is designed for personal use only  not for professional photographers.Amazon has never really pushed its Prime Photos benefit that heavily, and therelated mobileapp has received few significant updates over the years. Its still largely utilitarian in nature  a tool you use to automatically backup your photos to Amazons cloud for safe-keeping and not much more. Unlike its competitors, Amazon doesnt appear to be trying to compete with a social photo-sharing serviceor develop a community around its users shared photos. Instead, free photo storage is just another box for Amazon to tick  albeit one its checking off somewhat belatedly  when it comes to its Amazon Households list of benefits.Also of note: theretailer has been readjusting its Amazon Household program this year to make it more applicable to more traditional, two-parent families, instead of a way for usersto invite their friends to try out a limited Prime membership. In the past, Amazon allowed Prime members to share their shipping benefits and more with up to four other household members, but it changed that this summer to limit sharing to just two adults and up to four children. Given the new limitation on sharing benefits, it makes sense that Amazon would now roll out the unlimited photo storage to its Household members.