In a anti-competitive move that bumps up against one of Amazons core principles  customer obsession  the online retailer confirmed today that it would no longer allow the sales of some competing media players, including Apple TV and Chromecast, on its shopping site. Specifically, the company informed its marketplace sellers by way of email that no new product listings would be allowed and any remaining inventory would be removed from the site on October 29th.Bloomberg first reported this news, following a posting on internet forum Reddit which indicated that such a change was underway. Amazon later sent a statement to Variety confirming the move, and theyve shared that same statement with us as well.Explains an Amazon spokesperson:Over the last three years, Prime Video has become an important part of Prime. Its important that the streaming media players we sell interact well with Prime Video in order to avoid customer confusion. Roku, XBOX, PlayStation and Fire TV are excellent choices.In addition, theemail Amazon sent tosellers reads as follows:Dear Seller,Over the last three years, Prime Video has become an important part of Prime. Its important that the streaming media players we sell interact well with Prime Video in order to avoid customer confusion. Therefore, Amazon has implemented listing restrictions for the followings products:o Apple TV o Chromecast o Nexus PlayerEffective immediately, you may no longer create new listings for these products, and as of 10/29/15, any existing listings for these products will be removed. There will be no adverse impact on your seller account for the removal, but we request that you refrain from relisting removed products.Roku, XBOX, and PlayStation all interact well with Prime Video and are not affected by this change.Thank you for selling on Amazon.Sincerely, Amazon ServicesWe understand that ban is global, and affects Apple and Google directly as well as marketplace distributors. It also applies to all versions of the devices, including both older hardware as well as newer devices, like the brand-new Chromecasts announced this week.According to Amazons statement, itsdecision has to do with Apple TVs and Chromecasts lack of support for Amazon Prime Instant Video service, itsNetflix competitor which is one of the many benefits offered as a part of Amazons $99 per year membership program.In other words, Amazon will continue to sell media players that work with Prime Video. Those that dont will be pulled from the site.But the statement is misleading in that it impliesits Apple and Google who have made the decision not to support Amazon Prime Instant Video on their platforms. When in reality, its Amazon that has decided not to build for those platforms.Amazons statementinitially struck us as odd, given that Prime Video today works just fine on both Apple and Googles mobile operating systems  if these rival companies were taking anti-competitive stances of their own (which Amazon is only reacting to), it seems they wouldnt draw the line at keeping Prime Video off theirconnected TV devices. Theyd ban Prime Video across the board. (That wouldnt be great for consumers either, but it would be their right as closed platforms operated by private companies.)Backing up this suspicion that its Amazon firing the first shot here in these newstreaming media player wars, is theinteresting comment on Reddit,reportedly from an Amazon employee [now redacted], which outright statedthat the lack of Prime Video on Chromecast was Amazons decision, not Googles.Said this person:In the case of the Chromecast, its lack of support is entirely because Amazon decided not to support it. With the next Apple TV, they certainly can make an app if they choose. Im pretty sure they just want people to buy the FireTV, which sadly does not provide the best customer experience in a world where everything else supports AirPlay and/or Chromecast.Whether or not the anon user on Reddit was legit, the nature of the Chromecast SDK, which is the toolseta developer uses to make their app work with Googles Chromecast device, basically confirms what that person was saying.The Chromecast SDK is designed so that anyone canmake their app (iOS, Android or web app) available on Chromecast, dueto itsopen nature. That means that Amazon has no restrictions on building for Chromecast from Googles side, it has just chosen not to.Apple was not immediately available for comment. Google is not offering a public comment.So not only is Amazon trying to position itself as the underdog that Apple and Google are pushing around, its doing so in direct conflict with its core principles about putting the customerfirst. How is pulling two of the most popular connected TV devices from its virtual store shelves at all a benefit to the Amazon shopper?Leaders work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust, reads Amazons customer obsession principle. They start with the customer and work backwardsthey obsess over customers, it says.It seems like Amazon needs to add an asterisk to that statement now, which notes:*wellexcept when its not in our best interests.