Amazon is apparently exiting the travel business, only months after testing the waters with its hotel booking resource,Amazon Destinations. The site, first launched in April, was focused on helping Amazon shoppers in select markets find getaway destinations for weekend getaways  that is, hotels located within driving distance of the customers home. But now the site informs visitors that as of yesterday, October 13, Amazonhas flipped on the no vacancy signThe sites closure was first spotted by The Seattle Times. Amazons hometown of Seattle, of course, had been one of the first cities supported on the hotel-booking platform. At launch, the service offered hotel rooms in Seattle, L.A. and New York, and then later expanded this summer to also include parts of the Southeast U.S., Texas Gulf Coast, and Northern California, as well as Bostons metro.Four months after going live, the service was reaching 35 cities, Amazon said at the time of its last expansion. Now, around a half year later, the site is gone for good.This was not Amazons first foray into the travel arena. The company had previously offered Amazon Local customers flash deals and discounts on hotel stays. The new site, then, was meant to formalize the arrangement between the retailer and hotel partners by offering a larger listing of hotel deals. The company was handpicking the hotels featured on the Destinations website, buthad moved away from Amazon Locals discount model. The idea was that Amazon could work with hotels on an ongoing basis, while targeting the somewhat untapped niche in the travel space involving domestic leisure trips. Meanwhile, the hotels would supposedly benefit by being able to tap into Amazons reach.In addition to closing the Amazon Destinations website, the company says that it has stopped selling reservations in the Amazon Local app, as well.However, if customers had already booked a reservation via the site, it will still be valid and will be honored by the hotel. Customers wont have to take any action, despite the sites closure.Amazons entry into the hotel booking business could have been interesting, had it thrived. The site was already set up to collect user reviews about the hotels it was featuring, which could have made the service a competitor to other travel sites or local review sites like TripAdvisor, Expedia, or Yelp.The company has not offered a reasoning behind the shutdown at this point, but its likely that the site wasnt finding the traction Amazon had hoped.We have learned a lot and have decided to discontinue Amazon Destinations, is all an Amazon spokesperson would say. (Perhaps what it learned was that customers dont think of Amazon as a place to book hotels?)The launch had come around the same time as Amazon was attempting toexpand its footprint into peoples daily lives, including with the debut ofAmazon Home Services, a marketplace which connects customers with various local professionals. That site is still live, and available in a number of major cities throughout the U.S.