Amazons Angies List competitor, called Amazon Local Services, has been rebranded as Amazon Home Services ahead of a largerlaunch happening Monday, sources familiar with the plans tell TechCrunch. The site, which previously featured only a limited number of service offerings in a handful of select markets, has also recently expanded to include a much larger number of categories of services as well as additional cities around the U.S.According to an updated version of the website, which was available earlier today at amazon.com/services (link is now dead), the updated marketplace is live in Miami, San Francisco, New York, Houston, Seattle, Chicago, Washington D.C., Philadelphia, Boston, Dallas, Atlanta, Phoenix, San Diego, San Jose, Portland, Minneapolis, Detroit, Denver, Riverside, Tampa, Orlando, Austin, Sacramento, Pittsburgh, Nashville, Cincinnati, Charlotte, and St. Louis.Amazon says that more locations and service providers are being added all the time, and it additionally included a map that displayed the extent of its U.S. coverage (see below).As you may recall, Amazon Home Servicesquietly rolled outin late 2014as the companys initial foray in to providinga marketplace for services that would exist alongside its product offerings, offering the retailer another means of generating revenues outside of shipping physical products. Initially, the marketplace largely featured service providers whose businesses could help Amazon shoppers with additional needs that might follow a product purchase, however  like installers who couldmount a new TV, for example.According to The WSJs reportback in November, for example, shoppers in New York, L.A. and Amazons hometown of Seattle would see offers from the Local Services site after purchasing related items through the online retailer, like a car stereo or air conditioner that needed installation, for instance.However, a promotional video released at thetime explained that Amazon would eventually offer access to a wider rangeof professional services, including things like plumbers, auto mechanics, and yoga instructors, it said. This would make the marketplace more of a competitor to things like Angies List, Craigslist or Groupon. (Amazon had declined to comment on those earlier reports.)Now that expanded category line up is live  or at least it will be on Monday. On the rebranded Amazon Home Services websitethere are a varietycategories beyond those that only relate to products Amazon sells. Top-level categoriesincludeHome Improvement, Lawn & Garden, Automotive, Computer & Electronics, and Lessons. Theres even a More category for those that dont fit into the other groupings, whichincludes somemore interesting serviceslike goat grazing or singing performances. The idea here is to expand the marketplace to include any servicesa customer may need  even everyday needs like housecleaning or babysitting.In other words, with the official launch, Amazon is taking a big step to competein the on-demand economy. But in our understanding, Amazon is partnering with some of these on-demand service startups, rather than trying to replace them entirely. This is a similar strategy to what Amazon has pursued with other initiatives, like its online art store or its Amazon Sellers program. Amazon could end up driving more business for some of these companies, the way it has provided additional customer flow for small retailers of physical goods.Also of note, Amazon hand-picks thebusinesses it includes on itssite, and required all those who were listed to be licensed, insured and background-checked. The website previously said that Amazon would take a 20 percent cut of the services that cost under $1,000, and 15 percent for those over $1,000. But recently,the language on the websitewas updated, noting that, as of March 27, service fees are divided into three tiers: standardized, custom and recurring, each with a 5 percent transaction fee, and then with varying service platform fees ranging from 15 percent (standardized) to 19 percent (custom) to 5 percent (recurring).Amazon declined tocomment on the forthcoming official debut.For consumers, the updated marketplace offers a number of featuresthat could make it competitiveto other providers, like Angies List, Yelp or Googles business listings as a place to find providers. Because Amazon shoppers buy the services by placing them in an online cart, the company can verify the purchases leading to authenticated user reviews  meaning no one can slam a business out of spite or to take down a competitor. Instead, service reviews only come from real customers.Plus, the pros on the site offer Amazon the same pricing as if you dialed them direct, the website now claims  and if you find they offer a lower price, Amazon will match it. That change may be related to earlier complaints from consumers trying the service during its beta phase. Some found that they ended up haggling over pricing, and had trouble getting Amazon to pay up when they were given an incorrect quote.