Amazon has quietly expanded its Cloud Drive service  a competitor to Dropbox, Google Drive and other online file hosting services  to mobile platforms, with the release of dedicated apps on iTunes, Google Play, and the Amazon Appstore. The apps offer a simplified folder list and a way to view and share files, as well as play the music and videos you have stored on Cloud Drive.The Android versions of the apps arrived in their respective stores in late June, but the iOS version just went live over the holiday weekend here in the U.S. Amazon has yet to make a formal announcement about their debut.Amazon alreadyoffersdesktop (Mac and PC) apps for Cloud Drive, but on mobile, it instead introduced apps for working with specific aspects of its cloud service. For example, Amazon today has Cloud Drive Photos, which works to automatically upload your smartphones photos into Cloud Drive, as well as organize them. That app is available on iOS and Android, and the service is also built into Amazons Fire Phone.It also used to offer Amazon Cloud Player, a free app for streaming your music hosted on its Cloud Drive service. (Cloud Player has since been rebranded Prime Music and now includes a Pandora-like streaming service in addition to its Cloud Drive-powered streaming functions).With the new, standalone Cloud Drive apps, though, the focus is more on productivity. The apps will reflect the folder set up you have established on Cloud Drive, which may include folderslike Pictures, Videos, or My Send-to-Kindle Docs, among others. From these folders, youre able to drill down and then open and view supported files  documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and photos. Youre not able to edit these files, however.The Cloud Drive app also lets you share the files as links and attachments through emails and messages. Or you can grab a link to a file if you want to share it publicly, like posting it on social media, for example.In addition to the file viewing capabilities, youre able to stream the music and videos you have stored on Cloud Drive, but its not an elegant interface for this  youd be better off using the Prime Music app for playing your songs.The new apps themselves are fairly bare bones todayin terms of their overall feature set  nothing that should worry productivity software and cloud hosting companies, including Google, Microsoft or Apple  at least, for now. But Amazons expansion of its Cloud Drive service to mobile could hint that the company has larger ambitions around this service forthe long-term.That being said, Amazon still has a lot of catching up to do if it wants to truly compete on this front. These mobileapps currentlydont offer editing, but they also dont support a number of basic features, like uploads from mobile, automatic syncing, the ability to move files or edit their metadata, among other things.Where Amazon does have an advantage is price:Amazons Unlimited Everything plan lets you store everything in its cloud for just$60 per year. Its Unlimited Photos service is even cheaper at$11.99 per year. Services like Google Drive and Dropbox are much pricier when you start getting up into theterabytes of storage space. Plus, Dropbox individual accounts are capped at 1 TB.Amazon tells us it plans to keep the pricing the same as it expands its service to mobile, and it will also continue to invest in both the Cloud Drive and Cloud Drive Photos apps going forward.The launch of the standalone Cloud Drive apps follows that of the Cloud Drive developer SDKs for Android and iOS in June. In its announcement, Amazon referenced a small handful of third-party apps that had been built using the new SDKs, which are also listedon the Amazon Cloud Drive website. The company did not mention its own Cloud Drive apps at the time, but theyre now appearing on the Cloud Drive homepage.However, although the Cloud Drive app does utilize some functionality of the SDK, it was custom-built by Amazons own development team  its only appearing inthe Cloud Drive App Gallery because thats where all the apps that support Cloud Drive are listed.