As Apple continues to build out Apple Pay for transactions in retail stores, one of its key partners is making a move to own the payment experience more directly online.American Express today is launching a newfeature for cardholders called Amex Express Checkout, whichit says will let thempay for goods and services on web, mobile and in apps with a single password that cardholders already have and use to access their Amex accounts  not unlike PayPals password-based checkout option.Live in the U.S. starting today with a select group of retailers that includes Burberry, theGap, Hulu, Ticketmaster and Avis Car Rental, Amex is also announcing a new partnership with Stripe to help the new feature pick up critical mass with more online businesses.The financial terms of the deal between Stripe and Amex arenot being disclosed. However, Amex confirmed to me that it is a backer of the payments startup, something that doesnt appear to have been reported before, so it seemsto stem outof that strategic investment.According to Leslie Berland, Amexs EVP for digital partnerships, onereason Amex decided to develop its own checkout service was because it was finding that many people werent using the wallets that are available today. Talking to merchant partners and consumers, We identified many gaps and themes, she told TechCrunch. Those included the hurdleof registering for the wallets in the first place.The solution Amex went for was to tap into something that their consumers already have and use. Today, Amex offers its cardholders  there are 100 million globally, with a large proportion of them in the U.S.  the ability to log in online to accessaccounts, make payments and so on. Its those same passwords that are being used to authenticate users in the checkout process. By opting forthose already well-used passwords,werecognised that we could do somethingthat our competitors couldntdo, she added.Of course, there are other reasons why Amex would want to own itscheckout experience. For one thing, it reinforces a brand with the customer and makes it more likely that you will use Amex for a transaction. Thats in contrast to a digital wallet that will let consumers store a number of options that they can use to pay for something.Another is that it potentially lets Amex tweak and develop the experience of checking out, meaning that they can add more features or upselling into other services alongside the payment.But there is also something somewhat counterintuitive about using the same password for two different services: it seems to run against a lot of what were told are good practices online, where you should always think of unique passwords for different services to help keep your accounts secure. Amex has a couple of answers for why in this case simplicity is the better option.The information is sent in an encrypted way, with card numbers sent in a tokenized format, meaning the number can be only used on the site in question, for that specific transaction. Amex also offers a guarantee to cardholders to automatically refund any unauthorized transactions.While Amex has signed up a small group of merchants to kick off the service  the full list provided includedBurberry, Warby Parker, Gap Brands, Hulu, Tory Burch, Newegg, The Wall Street Journal, Ticketmaster, Avis Car Rental, Cole Haan, BarkBox, Ledbury, Sabon and 1-800-FLOWERS.COM  its also going for a bigger long-tail play by working with Stripe to create an automated integration. Merchants that already use StripesAPI can effectively click a box to add an extra integration for the Amex Express payment option.While this is a sign of how Amex doesnt want to take too much of a backseat to other big platform players in the new age of electronic payments, Berland also makes clear that the company is not rejecting its partners in those developments, either.The name of the game seems to be to be everywhere, and in any form that its customers may want to use.Were partners with Apple Payand our customers love Apple, she said. What they are doing at the point of sale isvery exciting and we want to be a part of it. And when we talk more broadly we are comfortable and excited to be with all wallets, not one exclusively. We willhave to see how merchants integrate them and whatconsumers want. For us its all about differences and differentiation in the future.Amex will also be offering merchants a direct API if they are not Stripe users to integrate the service.Berland also says that the company is currently working on the next phase of the rollout, which will include taking Amex Express international.