Stealthy San Francisco-based digital healthcarestartup Aminohas been quietly amassing a database of U.S. consumer healthcare data since late 2013 to underpin the product its launching today: a search platform powered by heathcare transaction data from188 million Americans  garnered from U.S. health insurance data  to make it easier forconsumersto locate a doctor or specialist withexperience treating other peoplewith their condition, or who fits their healthcare requirements in other specific ways.As well as matching doctors to patients based on their experience of treating others, the platform allows users to filter the results it provides them based on factors such as their location, or whichhealthcare providers accept specific healthcare insurance. Users can also book appointments via the platform (the booking piece is not a fully automated technology solution at this stage  rather Amino is bridging any tech gaps by getting on the phone itself to specific healthcare providers, wherenecessary. But its clearly bettingon all-digital appointment-bookingcoming down the line in future to salve anyscalability challenges with that aspectof its business).Co-founder and CEO David Vivero isa former VP at Zillow, who also co-foundedreal-estate startup RentJuice back in 2009, which wasacquired by Zillow for $40 million in2012.Hesays the aim with Amino is to offer a data-drivenalternative to people asking friends and family for healthcare recommendations, or finding recommendations via their insurance company websites  or indeed resortingto a Google search to try totrack down a relevant doctor.The biggest share of how people do this is they ask friends and family and then they go on a phone tag experience, trying to figure out which doctors accept their insurance. And whether theyre available or not. So if we think about what we replace, we typically replace that activity The next largest category, obviously, is people going to their insurance company websites, Vivero tells TechCrunch.Or basically Googling. Five billion searches a month are healthcare related. And whats problematic about that experience is you really get undifferentiated lists that are not personalized, that are not comprehensive, that are full of advertising, and so we think we really provide the best of asking a friend or family member because of how unbiased and data-driven it is, but also the convenience of being able to do this from your mobile phone.The idea for the product came after he left Zillow and was looking for individual health insurance forhimself. Viverohas a hereditary health condition that  back in 2013  meant he was denied health insurance.That was awful and I did find health insurance eventually  I had to change my doctor. And every step of the way I felt, for someone who was relatively experienced in using all sorts of tools to feel good about the decisions I was making, I was shocked at the state of the art in being a healthcare consumer on my own.Thats when I decided to really call up some folks in user experience and design  really the people that had helped me build my first product at RentJuice  and we set out to solve this. Id learned a lot when I was at Zillow about how important information is in freeing people up to make decisions and to feel good about their decisions.The increase in rates of electronic healthcare record penetration in the U.S. is oneunderlying driving factor making launching a data-driven consumer healthcare search platform possible at this point, according toVivero. He also points tochanges such as the Affordable Healthcare Actputting U.S. consumers more in the driving seat when it comes to making decisions about their healthcare. Tech-enabled big data processing is a third factor.On the latter front, onekey feature of the platform heflags up is something Amino callsdecision factors  which refers to additional patient-centric search parametersthat let users narrowresults for specific types ofsearches based on additional personalpreferences  and based on the platform performing risk adjustedanalysis of healthcaredata so that,for instance, a female userwho is pregnant canlocate a doctor who has a low recent rate of C-section deliveries ifsheprefers to have a natural birth.Vivero says Amino will be developing more of these decision factors tolet users narrow results in ways that make sense for them based on thefeedback it gets from users.Were going to be incredibly patient-centric in how we create the decision factors that go on Amino, but theyre incredibly personalized We really want to make people feel like were listening to their needs  that were giving them answers that they never had before, and that its driven by data, he adds.Amino supports searches pertaining toaround 900 different medical conditions at this stage. The platform is a web app, so theres no need to download an appto use it. The website also does not require users register before they can perform searches, although if you do want to book a doctor via the platform it will obviously ask for some data at that point (it also asks for some data to help hone search results to your requirements and the specifics of your condition  such as your age and gender). And its free to use at this point.Indeed, theres currently no monetization structure in place, with doctors also being freely listed. Idea being, says Vivero, is it wants to present relevant, impartial data to help consumers make the best healthcare choices themselves  which meansno paid listings, and no ads either.We are very excited to learn how people use our product. And in improving that product and adding additional services we may learn that there are great things that people are willing to pay for, but our current product is free  the information that we provide is free, its national. And our approach will be to design a business model that enhances the consumer experience, rather than taxes it as an advertising model, for example, I believe would, he says.One future monetization route might be around licensing data to people who make decisions in the healthcare system. If youre a health insurance carrier or if you are a self-insured employer or you are a health IT company that would benefit by knowing a bit more about the C-section rates of physicians or the ability for people with a hernia to get out-patient care, and other questions like that, that may affect the cost and quality of care, then people have been interested in actually licensing some of the results from Amino.So where exactly does Amino get its data? Its been building that up via partnerships since work started on the businessback in late 2013, according toVivero. Weve accumulated this data over the course of many months, and now into years. he says. Its been accumulated through a series of partnerships and investment, in both public and private partnerships. Its primarily insurance claims data  so whats great about insurance claims is that they are highly digital.What we do is we take the health insurance claims data, that can come from a whole host of different parts of the healthcare system, and we work with those third parties to ensure that we maintain patient privacy. So all of our sources of data work with us to de-identify all the data  so that the 188 million people inside of the database are anonymous.As well as pullingtogether a very large database of healthcare transaction information (comprising more than 3.9 billion data-points at this point, and apparently accounting for nearly every practicing doctor in American), datawhich he describes as highly structured and overly specific in terms of the core needs of healthcare consumers, Aminos special sauce involves processing this datato create patterns and clusters so it canpersonalize results for individual users. For each search, it presents the user witha match score per potential physician, based on their search parameters.Part of our investment has just been trying to make this useable, trying to make this easy for people, addsVivero. If we were just to publish health insurance claims data it would not be in any way a useful product for anyone. Instead what weve had to do is try to figure out, using machine learning, biostatistics, and other forms of data science methods to actually infer whats happening inside of the doctors office by grouping a lot of these [healthcare transaction] codes, and clustering them and doing a lot of work to actually draw insight from them.The benefit is that the data is highly specific. So that means that we can really slice and dice some of these experiences so that people get a very personalized view. The challenge with that is if you were to publish the data in its raw form it wouldnt be useable to all of us  and part of what Amino sets out to do is try to make this thing extremely easy for someone to make a competent decision, which means actually creating a nice layer in between the data and the product.Amino is backed by $19.4 million in pre-launch financing at this point, taking in what Vivero says was a very quiet Series A from Accel in mid-2014, as it worked on building out itsdata and the supportive analytics atop that, as well as testing the product and surveying consumers to shape a go-to-market strategy;followed recently by $13 million from Charles River Ventures. Rock Health and more than a dozen individual investors have also contributed to its coffers at this stage.It has also formed an advisory board comprised of individuals from academic, healthcare, privacy and consumer tech fields in order to  in its own words  ensure its approach, data methods, and services incorporate best practices.Current members of Aminosboard include: Dr. Ashish Jha (Faculty Director, Harvard Global HealthInstitute), Udi Manber (National Institutes of Health, and former VP of Engineering at Google), Dr. ArnoldMilstein (Professor of Medicine and Director of the Stanford Clinical Excellence Research Center, StanfordUniversity), Dr. Philip Pizzo (Professor and former Dean, Stanford School of Medicine), Joy Pritts (FormerChief Privacy Officer, Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, US Dept. ofHealth and Human Services), Bryan Sivak (Former Chief Technology Officer, U.S. Dept. of Health andHuman Services), and Dr. Robert Wachter (Professor and Associate Chairman of the Department ofMedicine, and Chief of the Division of Hospital Medicine and Chief of the Medical Service at UCSF MedicalCenter).