Shaquille ONeal  former champion NBAcenter and businessman  was on a plane one day when someone was playing a slots game next to him.He liked the game so much he downloaded it, played it for four hours on a flight, and now has games made by them where hes the star.Those games are ShaqJack and Caddy Shaq, two Las Vegas-themed games made by a company called MyVegas.Iveseen slots before, and it was dark, but the graphics werelighting this whole plane up, Shaq said. Like, boom boom, I couldnt keep my eyes off of them.So Shaq came in and decided to build those games with MyVegas, which offers rewards to players like free hotel suites, an invite to a party later this month, and even signed basketballs by Shaq.This isnt Shaqs first foray into games, nor is it his first time working with a company. In addition to being one of the most famous and successful basketball players in the world, Shaq has an MBA and has worked with a lot of startups like live-streaming app Tout  where he announced his retirement. He takes about four pitches a week from startups, he said.Never talk about money; thats never been an issue, he said. Its all about opportunity, about having fun and havinga good time. The first things I always ask myselfare, Do I believe in this product? Is it fun? Whats the out? A lot of guys saythey want to grow this flower to a big tree and sell it to Redwood City. Im more interested in a hard-working partnership. I dont like guys who say thisis our out.While Silicon Valley sometimes glorifies college dropouts, Shaq said both ways  going to college and dropping out to come to the Bay Area and start a company  work.Shaq, who spends around $1,000 a week on apps and has always liked being the first jumping onto new technology, is also a big fan of drones. I got like 50 drones, he said, but he pled the fifth on whether hed talk about how many times hed crashed them. He also has an Apple Watch.Unfortunately we couldnt find out what apps he has on his home screen. Thats G14 classified, he said.For the basketball fans out there, we also asked Shaq at the end whether the Cleveland Cavaliers or the Golden State Warriors would win the NBA championship, with the series being tied 2-2 right now and the finals heading back to California. You can see his response in the video below.