Postmates, a startup that allows users to order nearly anything in their city and have it delivered in an hour for a fee, is growing quickly. The companys CEO, BastianLehmann, tweeted out a graph yesterday detailing how quickly the firm has scaled its delivery service.Heres the chart:And heres a version that TechCrunchs own Bryce Durbin cooked up:I decided to dig into the companys financials a bit, so that we can better understand what that 1.5 million figure means. Lets get started.Postmates is a facilitator between couriers and consumers. You use its app to request an order, and then a courier accepts the delivery and executes it. The delivery denizensare not Postmates employees. Instead, they are independent contractors, a model that is currently in vogue with startups seekingto control labor costs as they scale.Postmates collects 20 percent of the delivery fee that it charges. The other 80 percent, along with all additional tips, goes to the courier. Thats simple enough. Postmates also collects a 9 percent fee of the cost of goods. The 9 percent fee doesnt have a cap, I confirmed with the company. The startup doesnt mark up goods that it sells, so its cut of the delivery fee, and its own fee, are how Postmates collects the bulk of its revenue.Thats all correct for 94 percent of Postmates orders, at current pace. The remaining 6 percent are monetized through the companys Preferred Merchant Program, which it recently announced. The company partners with restaurants in that model and charges a lower delivery fee. I presume Postmates collects a cut from the restaurants that are part of the program.So we have a decent understanding of how Postmates operates financially and how quickly its growing. All we need now is an average order size, and we can run the numbers on how much revenue Postmates is currently racking up.Naturally, the company declined to share that number. A quick scan of Twitter led to a failed assortment of random guesses. Well have to run the spread.Postmates declined to comment on its cashflow status, and its relationship withprofitability. Most private companies decline to share data of that sort, so we wont take it personally. However, the company did indicate that its gross margins are improving as its scale expands.Returning to the original graph, Postmates most recently executed 500,000 deliveries in 10 weeks. Thats 50,000 per week or an average of 7,143 per day.To calculate an estimate of Postmatesrevenue1, we select an average order size, average delivery fee, and crank. For example, if we guessed that the average Postmates order is $30, before other fees and the like, and that the average delivery fee charged is $8, we can do the following:(7,143 x $30 x 0.09) + (7,143 x 8 x 0.20) = $30,715 in daily revenue, or an annual run rate of $11.2 million.2You can ratchet the numbers around to get different results. Lets presume a $20 average order size and keep our delivery estimate in place:(7,143 x $20 x 0.09) + (7,143 x 8 x 0.20) = $24,286 in daily revenue, or an annual run rate of $8.86 million.The run rates for $10 average orders and $40 average orders  again holding our delivery fee at an average of $8  are $6.52 million and $13.55 million, respectively.Given our lack of a firm average order estimate, our revenue results are annoyingly broad. However, given that range, we can cap, to an extent, Postmates current top line. Given that a $10 per-order average is likely quite low, we know that Postmates has a revenue run rate clearly north of $7 million. And as the average order size is likely not north of $40, the company is likely not generating revenue at a run rate of greater than $14 million.So, its in there. What matters more to Postmates is that its revenue run rate is quickly expanding. Presuming that its average order size did not decline in the last 10 weeks, when the company saw quick growth, Postmates has doubled its run rate in the last 10 weeks from the pace it set in the preceding 20. Not bad.Postmates has high gross margins on a per-order basis but has other costs, including software work and support. It isnt clear that at its current revenue pace the firm is profitable, but if it can keep growing as it has, the idea doesnt seem too implausible.A potentially profitable startup? And I thought those were banned.FEATURED IMAGE: LORD ENFIELD/FLICKR UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)