If youve ever worked as a freelancer, you know thelast thing you want to do  after lining up gigs, submitting your work, and reworking your project(when that last person on the client side decides he or she wants something entirely different)  is to handle all the administrative stuff. Thinkinvoicing. Expenses. Other paperwork.Thats why a year-old,New York-startup called AND COis creating asystem that does it for you, using both software and live chat support. (Every freelancer gets a personal chief operator during working hours.)AND COwas born at Prehype, a four-year-olddesign and incubationboutique that producesnew ideas forcorporate customers. Among other companies to come from its teamare the subscription business BarkBox and the office cleaning and management startup Managed by Q.Prehype founder Henrik Werdelin is aBarkBox founder. Managed by Q cofounderSaman Rahmanian is also a partner at PreHype. Meanwhile, Leif Abraham, a former creative director who joined Prehype in 2014 and was an early employee at BarkBox, is the cofounder and CEO of AND CO. (Abrahamsays his cofounder, Martin Strutz, also a longtime digital creative, was like an entrepreneur-in-residence at Prehype.)AND CO, which charges a flat $60 a month, right now focuses largely on freelancers with project workflow, like designers, writers, and developers.Its also fairly limited in what it can do. For example, it canprovide its customers with a detailed income statement to make their tax preparation easier  just. But Abrahamsays that as the companys software evolves,it plans toplay a larger role in making the tax process, which can be particularly tricky for freelancers, far more seamless.As importantly, AND COsvision is to create a support network in which every member helps each other automatically. To wit: with every freelancer contributing anonymously to the network, it should become better at arming other users with valuable informationthats today very hard to obtain, including what to charge andwhich clients to work with(along with those to avoid).Such is theidea anyway. Andinvestors seem to like it. AND CO just raised $2 million in seed funding led by Thrive Capital, with participation from BoxGroup,Red Swan Ventures, and Designer Fund.The found follows a $500,000 angel round that BoxGrouphad led. Other participants in that first funding included Prehype, Brooklyn Bridge Ventures, and individual investors Scott Belsky, Josh Abramson, Ricky van Veen, Neil Vogel and Bjarke Ingels.