There is something more powerful than the brute force of bayonets: it is the idea whose time has come. And so last weekend I visited the Basic Income Createathonheld, appropriately enough, at Brigade in San Franciscoto witness the early stirrings of a movement whose central goal may seem strange and radical  but which I expect to eventually transform the life of billions.Universal Basic Income 101: a form of social security system in which all citizens or residents of a country regularly receive an unconditional sum of money, in addition to any income received from elsewhere, to quote Wikipedia. An idea that has erupted into the zeitgeist of late; as Maciej Ceglowski observed, at the OReilly Next Economy Summit only a few blocks away from the Createathon:Andy Stern talking about universal basic income, everyone gets a check for $1K/month. Old idea getting new attention Pinboard (@Pinboard) November 13, 2015I have argued over the last several years that as software eats the world, it will transform Mediocristan into Extremistan, moving more and more of us into a power-law economy in which a minority of winners do extremely well  while the majority face becoming part of the precariat. In such a world, a universal basic income will become sheer necessity.Let me just pause to hamstring those whose knee-jerk reaction to the whole notion is to cry out Evil Communist Handout begone! A basic income, or (essentially the same thing) a negative income tax was proposed long ago by Milton Friedman and Friedrich Hayek, both beloved by those well-known left-wing pinko socialists Reagan and Thatcher. Meanwhile, he who does not work shall not eat was an idea widely promulgated by none other than Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, father of the Soviet Union. Whose side are you on? Also,If Marx were alive today, a) he'd be spittin sick rhymes, and b) he'd be much more concerned with the means of distribution than production. Startup L. Jackson (@StartupLJackson) September 26, 2015So lets talk about the Createathon.Its devotees and true believers divided into groups, each of which worked on a proposal to promote, promulgate, or prototype this (currently) weird, new, and contentious notion. This having occurred in present-day San Francisco, the first group of course led with the blockchain.Group Income and Group CurrencySpecifically, a proposal for Group Income, a voluntary automated decentralized income transfer  ie, a system wherein a group of people all agree to share their income such that everyone in the group receives at least an agreed-upon basic amount. The grotty mechanics will be automatically and algorithmically handled on the (Ethereum) blockchain.While I dont think this would work for a truly universal basic income  in the same way that Obamacare needs the mandate, basic income requires taxation  its a terrific idea with many advantages. It could be implemented / tested today, which would be a really fascinating experiment. It could, at least in principle, scale to a very large number of, er, group income groups. (The proposals originator, one Greg Slepak, clarified to me later that its intended for smallish groups of about a hundred, or at least less than Dunbars number. Imagine each group, to vastly oversimplify, as a kind of distributed kibbutz.)Best of all, Group Income is actually a watered-down, simplified, compromised, mainstreamed version of a much weirder and more radical idea, Group Currency, in which each of these groups would maintain their own currency. While I have issues with both notions  I dont think they scale; I think they reinforce the already immense benefits of pre-existing social ties in communities that include high earners; and, being a good Canadian, I dont share the implicit deep-seated aversion to coercive taxation  kudos to Slepak for thinking way outside the proverbial box. Go ahead, call him a crazy idealist. You should be so lucky as to be so crazy.A Basic Income Plan For San Franciscowas the next proposal which caught my attention. Its proponents were admirably practical about the nitty-gritty details of how to administer such a plan, how the neediest individuals could acquire ID and bank accounts, etc. They suggested, wisely to my mind, that society should start with quite a small basic income; first create the pipes, then think about increasing the flow  they suggested $100, paid for by a land tax on 2nd or investment homes within the city.Alas, they seemed bizarrely fixated on the notion that rent would simply increase by the amount of any basic income, which I just dont see as long as it gets taxed back from those who earn a sufficiently high income, and their notions kind of fell apart in the face of the Bay Areas insane housing costs and housing policy. Which admittedly is an awfully tough nut to crack.Proposed solution is to greatly strengthen rent control, which, ummm. Let's just say that even Paul Krugman would not approve. Jon Evans (@rezendi) November 15, 2015To The Devil, His AdvocatesThe next group itemized all the arguments against basic income for the purpose of being able to refute them. Needless to say they had a whole lot of fun with this:"We can't afford it. People will be lazy. People will spend the money on booze, drugs, and hookers. Socialism! Communism!" Jon Evans (@rezendi) November 15, 2015But I suspect its the fears they summarized, rather than the outrage above, that gives most thoughtful people pause:Fears: economic collapse, social collapse, identity loss, unfairness, loss of virtue / ethic of work, loss of coming-of-age transition, etc. Jon Evans (@rezendi) November 15, 2015which, again, why the notion of start small, and/or with voluntary groups; perform experiments, collect data, and consider the evidence is so appealing to me. (Of course it usually is. I am an engineer.) However, the next group pointed out that a move to a basic income wouldnt be such a wrenching change, usingThe Mathematics Of PlentyThey created a (beta, or maybe alpha; it takes forever to render) site, bettertaxes.org, that itemizes the existing taxes and social spending of the US government, and the financial evolution that would be required to implement a universal basic income in America. Spoiler alert: a nationwide minimum income of $1000 / month would cost about as much as Medicare does today.Is that too expensive? Im sure many people will argue it is. Will it still be too expensive 10 years from now if the US economy grows by a third in that time? How much economic growth is forestalled by the fear of abject poverty and/or complete inability to take economic risks or foster creativity and innovation caused by abject poverty? How much more efficient is direct giving, compared to todays complex, wasteful, bureaucratic transfer programs? I strongly suspect we shall see. (And this applies to foreign aid as much as it does to internal transfers)You Too Can Earn A Basic Income, Today!One of the leading lights of basic income is one Scott Santens, who makes a kind of one-man basic income of $1000/month through his Patreon, and uses that money to promote the movement.As of next year, you can do the same! Sort of. The last group with a concrete proposal spend the weekend creating and launching an IndieGogo campaign to raffle off one (1) invidual basic income; if/when funded, it will be used to give one person, chosen by raffle, an income of $1,250 a month for one year, no strings attached. I was impressed:I like this one quite a bit: tangible, practical, iterative, immediate, semiotically powerful. Jon Evans (@rezendi) November 15, 2015But  disclaimer/disclosure  one of the people behind this campaign is an old friend. So dont take my word for it. Instead, take that of, say, Union Square Ventures partner Albert Wenger:If you support #basicincome here is a great project to create more awareness in the US https://t.co/PTqd3hdXYB Albert Wenger (@albertwenger) November 16, 2015Cometh The Hour, Cometh The MemeAre any of these proposals singlehandedly going to change the world? Probably not. But are they small measurable steps towards fundamental change? I suspect they are. I suspect now is the time for such a change to begin.Dont worry; its not just me who says so "Its also time to start a conversation about the deeper changes that will be necessary over the longer term" https://t.co/AvDdIWWXkx Jon Evans (@rezendi) November 16, 2015Click through and youll find a stirring open letter signed by legendary VCs Steve Jurvetson and Vinod Khosla, many an MIT professor, and five Economics Nobel winners, among others. It states:The digital revolution is the best economic news on the planet. But the evidence is clear that this progress is accompanied by some thorny challenges. The majority of US households have seen little if any income growth for over 20 years, the percentage of national income thats paid out in wages has declined sharply in the US since 2000, and the American middle class, which is one of our countrys great creations, is being hollowed out []Its also time to start a conversation about the deeper changes that will be necessary over the longer term  to our tax and transfer system, to the nature and extent of our public investment, and even to how democracy can and should function in a networked world.Indeed. We live in a time of immense, frequently wrenching, often wonderful, transformative change. As technology revises our lives, our socioeconomic system will change accordingly. Thats not a manifesto; thats very nearly a tautology. Any belief in the sacred importance, eternal nature, or even relevance of the current status quo seems increasingly strange and blinkered.As we move from Mediocristan to Extremistan, well inevitably need something to protect, and foster, people who find themselves on the wrong side of a power law. Something very like a basic income isnt just a good idea; it is, if you ask me, an inevitability. I just hope we move towards it soon, simply because its a good idea, rather than waiting until it becomes a stark and painful necessity.