Europes Competition Commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, has couched a probeofthe Android OS as high priority for EU regulators. Investigations into other aspects of thecompanys operations are also being prioritized, she said, speaking in an interview with the WSJ.Her comments suggest European regulators could launch multiple antitrust probesintoGoogle services in future.People feel or experience that they are either being demoted, or Google preferences its own services, she said, describing acommon thread that links some of theGoogle-relatedcomplaints.Despite some cross-over in the character of complaints, she stressedeach isbeing treated as a separate investigation. What they have in common is that the name Google appears in each one, but apart from that they are very different. And therefore I do not think of it as one Google case but literally as different investigations and different cases, she said.There may be a lesson learned. Its a very fine balance, Vestager added, discussing the potential for applying any resolution from one Google product investigation to another. The shopping case may have similarities when we eventually look at maps and travel and a number of other related services, because the complaints sort of tell the same story. People feel or experience that they are either being demoted, or Google preferences its own services. But there is no such thing as you have done one, youve done them all. You cant do that.On the other hand, if you look at the shopping case then there will be insights that will probably also be valid when it comes to other neighboring markets. But its a very, very fine balance, because we cannot do one case and then say the rest is the same. In a union of law and with due process, this cannot be the case.Vestager announcedthe in-depth investigation into Googles mobile operating system back in April at the same time as issuing a formal Statement of Objections regarding Googlesshopping search comparison service.The Android probefollowscomplaints by rivalsthat Google uses itsmobile OSas a Trojan horse for other Google services  in order, as they couch it, to dominate the mobile marketplace and cement its control over consumer Internet data for online advertising as usage shifts to mobile.It is a different creature than the Google [shopping] case because people dont think so much about the operating system on their phone. But those who produce phones or sell phones or develop applications, they are very preoccupied with the operating system. So we give that a high priority, saidVestager of the Android probe.She also confirmed her department is still analyzing Googles response to its formal statement of objections in theshopping search complaint, noting: It is high priority but it will take some time because it is analysis and data comparison et cetera, which is challenging.The latter investigationhas been on-going for some five years, although most ofthat fellunder Vestagers predecessor in the competition commissioners chair, Joaquin Almunia.It will take some time but this is a case which is defined by the steps of the case, she added of the search probe.Weve reached out to Google for comment and will update this post with any response.