Andrew Braccia of Accel Partners doesnt tweet or write blog posts. He rarely talks with the media. But that doesnt mean the 39-year-old isnt working it. In fact, Braccia may have landed as big a deal for Accel as Facebook, whose $12.7 million Series A investmentproduced billions of dollars for its investors.That company? Slack.I had coffee with Braccia last week to ask abouthisearly bet on the company, which Accel led with help fromAndreessen Horowitz. Itcould become the defining deal of Braccias career, despite his other prescient bets, including on the high-profile Hadoop software company Cloudera (expected to go public sooner than later); Vox Media (owner of The Verge, SB Nation, Vox and Recode); and the 30-year-old, fast-growing online learning company Lynda.com, whichhadraised nearly $300 million from investors in recent yearsand announced in April that it was beingacquired by LinkedIn for $1.5 billion.Our chat has been edited for length.TC: Before joining Accel in 2007, youd spent nine years at Yahoo, where you met Stewart Butterfield.AB: Yes. In 2005, as part of the web search business at Yahoo, we bought Flickr, which was Stewart and Caterina [Fake]s company, so I became really close with Stewart. And after Yahoo, he took a year off and was deciding to do something new with three other folks from Flickr, and they were debating whether or not to create a bank. The other thing was a game [called Glitch] , which theyd tried build before Flickr, which was itself a pivot. They thought: Now there are a lot more preconditions in place to build a great game, and we have the ability tomake it a reality. But the reality was that it was a really interesting game but it wasnt a hit.Hecould have continued,but he thought: Given our ambitions and the time and place where we are today, lets end it now and move on.TC: And he offered to return some of the funding thecompany had raised across itsA and B round?AB: We had a discussion about: Should I return the money. But the company wed invested in was Tiny Speck, which produced the game.And the reason we invested in Tiny Speck was because we were investing in that team. I told Stewart, If you want to continue to be an entrepreneur and build something, then Im with you.TC: So they started to converge on this idea of Slack based on some software theyd created internally to communicate. Were they trying to cut down on email? What was their motivation?AB: Email is a medium that contains a bunch of different parts of your life  newsletters, emails from friends, notices from Amazon Prime and about your kids soccer club. Its just not the most effective way to communicate as a team.Also, in this world where all these new services and technologies are alerting you to whats happening within your business, it becomes really hard to manage. So Slackbuilt this internal messaging service so theyd have a purpose-driven application around team communication and business communication and could integrate all the services that are integral to them. They also wanted to beable to make all of their conversations transparent to the rest of the organization, so that when people started, they would have this history [that could be referenced] from day one.TC: Did you realize right away what Slack was on to?AB: I dont think we understood how valuable, important, or fast it would grow. We just knew the use case was really strong at Tiny Speck and that if it was strong there, perhaps it could be strong other places, too.TC: How did the company start getting its tools in other users hands?AB: By August of 2013, they starting to approach people they knew. They have a strong network within Silicon Valley and started to get feedback on the product. From there it started to grow virally via word of mouth. [Editors note: As of June 24, the company reported having 1.1 million users.]TC: Where does it go from here?AB: If you think of Slack simply as team messaging, its incredibly powerful.If you think about the many disparate things you do on your computer as you work to get your job done  if you think about consolidating that into workflow, into a single view of the world  then all of a sudden youre talking about almost the business operating system, where youre using Twitter, but youre actually using Twitter in Slack because youve set up a Twitter feed and youre seeing all the things that relate to your job that are being posted on Twitter and youre able to reply to those posts on Twitter in Slack.[Similarly], youre getting all of your customer response tickets in Slack and youre able to respond to them in Slack. You can add to your CRM database in Slack, and you can push out your email marketing newsletters in Slack. If you think about it that way, the vision for it around workflow becomes really compelling.TC: Do you see a day when its adopted widely by consumers?AB: Sure, you see people adopting in a bunch of different ways. You see families adopting it, communities adopting it, groups adopting it. Its not what the product was built for and thus the use case isnt as delightful and compelling as the business use case, and those use cases wont be solved for any time soon. But I can definitely see it.TC: What might users be surprised to see coming from Slack a year from now? Is there anything on its roadmap that you can hint at?AB: I think you can expect a lot of the expected  and you can expect the unexpected, as well.Theyve talked about things they are going to do. Theyve talked about threaded comments, for example; thats something theyre working on and will release at some point when its ready. Theyre perfectionists, and to build product really well takes a combination of art and science and it takes a level of perfection  thinking about every edge and use case and thinking how it works on mobile and the desktop and how it works offline and online. And theyll take their time to do it right.TC: I admired Stewarts candor in talking publiclythis year about Slacks early, billion-dollar valuation and why it was important for him to secure. How did you feel about that interview?AB: I dont think he was revealing a secret. Whatgets lost in a lot of the fundraising fervor around Slack is that its a free market. People will pay for companies and entrepreneurs and teams that they believe in, at a price that they believe is reasonable and fair.Ifyou think about the idea of a company being on the desktops of tens of millions, if not hundreds of millions, of people around the worldabout it becoming the essential work-communication product for workforces globally, how much would that be worth?People get too caught up in the today of valuations rather than saying, Maybe well be looking back 10 years fromnow and thinking TC: Thatwas the deal of the century,like Facebook.AB: Like many companies. Thats not to say people wont overpay for private companies and some wont end up fulfilling their vision and wont be worth as much as [their investors] would have hoped. Thats life. But there are a lot of companies that get bucketed by these discussions around high valuations [that shouldnt].TC: Do you think Slack will be as big as Facebook someday?AB: I dont know how to put a finger on what it will inevitably be valued at some day. I can tell you I think it has the potential to be a really defining company in a space thats valuable. How valuable? I dont know.Update: The original version of this story did notnote that Lynda was recentlyacquired by LinkedIn.