Today,AngelPad a five-year-old seed-stage incubator that twice a year chooses roughly a dozen startups to coach over a three-month period held its ninth demo day in San Francisco. As has become routine, its founders presented to a densely packed audience of invite-only guests.We werentsurprised, walking onto the crowded scene. At this point, Angelpad, founded by husband-and-wife team Thomas Korte and Carine Magescas,has earned a solidreputation for finding interesting new entrepreneurs. (MoPub and Crittercism are two of its better-known discoveries.)The outfit whichprovides each company with a $55,000 convertible noteandan addition $4,000 per founder in exchange for 7 percent of theirstartup  also seems to be attracting more sophisticated entrepreneurs.That, or else Korte and Magescas are getting better at identifyingtalent. As Magescas told us, while companies are usually just getting off the ground here, Angelpadscurrent batch of 13 companies has an enormous amount of traction already, to the tune of $2.5 million in combined revenue. Thats not intentional, she says. Some are just [taking off] earlier than we thought.Herewith, the companies that presented:Sync Ninja is a platform-as-a service that enables enterprises to deploy software across data centers and cloud providers with a single command. More specifically, it enables front-end developers to turn their code into services and run them anywhere.Its founders include an ex-Google engineer and an former AWS solutions architectwhosay theyve basically built their product in the past at both companies. And theyve convinced at least one well-known customer of their merits:thedaily fantasy sports company FanDuel.Korte is also a fan, telling us he considers Sync Ninja to be the moonshot bet of the group. Ifthey succeed, theyll fundamentallytransform how people deploy code at a very large scale.Sous is a mobile-first platform for professional kitchensthataims tohelpchefs moreeffectivelymanage their kitchen, from communicating with line cooks to sharing recipes to more easily purchasing and tracking goods from vendors.One ofSoussfounders convincingly argued thathe understands the issues of chefs well, having worked as one attwo Michelin-starred restaurants (Jean-Georges in New YorkandUchi in Austin), which he said still rely heavily on clipboards, Post-it notes, and other traditional tools of the trade.Certainly, something seems to be resonating.Since September, the company has begun working with 49 chefs in its initial marketofNew York. Its also working with 300 suppliers around the country.Parabola is a data analytics tool that makes complex ad-hoc analysis easy to create and to consume.Sosays the company, whose dashboard pulls in data from third party sources and custom data sources in a way that decision-makers can understand, and play with.Parabolasfounders include aformer data consultant from Deloitte Strategy and an ex-Yahoo software engineer, and the duo says the company is already working with 15companies and 1,000 users, includingatDeloitte and the payments company Square.Astronomer is a scalable enterprise platform built for data engineers. The pitch: between data sources and data tools is data management, which is ostensibly a bigpain in the you-know-what. According to its founders, data scientists spend 90 percent of their time trying to capture and manage data, a majortime sink.Meanwhile, Astronomer makes it so theyneed only do some light configuring to obtainthe data they need on demand.Customers so far include the Cincinnati International Airport; Crossroads, a church with five locations around the country; and an unnamed national e-commerce company. Itdoesnt sound like much, the but the three alone will should produce$100,000 in annual revenue for the company, and itlaunched just three weeks ago.Postmorestruck us as veryau courant. Its avisual marketing platform for consumer brandsthat helps them get more authentic content out of their employeeswhile ensuring those same staffers dont go too far.Imagine selfies taken by employeesofAmerican Apparel, whichhappens to be a customer of Postmore. The retaileractually generates100 unique photos a day,but with that kind of volume, its easy to imagine creative content going too far. Postmores app enables everybody in the company to post and seewhatsbeing posted  including top brass.OneRooftop is creating concierge services for the small businesses that make up 76 percent of the supply of vacation rentals. The idea: by freeing up time foroverworked, small business owners  who tend to handle everything from marketing on Airbnb to guest communications to ground servicesOneRooftopcan help them optimize their revenue. (One task thatthe startuptakes on, for example, is inquiry management for all of an ownerslistings via email, social, chat and phone.)Theres apparently still a need for this kind of service. OneRooftophas already worked with400 properties on the platform and says those properties haveseen a 12 percent increase in bookings because of its technology.Its three founders, allMBAs and repeat entrepreneurs, say they have 3,000 more properties set to go live in the next 30 days.Vesperis focused on eliminating the headaches of office management.The company invariably brings to mind Managed by Q, another venture-backedstartup that handles all the cleaning, maintenance and re-stocking of theoffice.Where Vesperdiffers, in part, is that Vesper actually places aconcierge-like employee with its customers on a part-time basis so their point of contact canfigure outeveryones favorite coffee, schedule repairs, and stock supplies, using the help of the manyvendors with which Vesper is currently formingrelationships. (The idea, presumably, is that Vespercan offer products to its customers at a lower cost to itselfif its buying in bulk.)8 is a user-generated video shopping platform forApple TV, mobile and the web that seizeson todays unboxing trend, wherein someone is filmed opening a product for the first time.Somewhat astonishingly, more than 10 million unboxing videos have been uploaded to YouTube so far this year, and by 2017, says 8s founders, that number is expected to hit 86 million.The apparent reason: People want to get as close as possible tothat first-time product experience. (Or maybe they just really like seeing things ripped open.)Either way, 8s app makes unboxing even easierby allowing someone to record a video thats between 8- and 30-seconds long, then scan a product that he or she likes into the video before immediately sharing it.In fact, the companysays it posted 30 videos in October, and that theywere viewed more than 450,000 times collectively. Perhaps more impressive, 73 percent of viewers watched the videos until the end.Hive automates workflows for so-called customer success teams.The short and sweet of it: If you use Slack and Asana and Box and Google Drive and Google Sheets and Salesforce and you feel sometimes like your head is going to explode, you might want to check out this company.It has interesting cofounders, too. One led customer successat the content collaboration companyHuddle; anotherbuilt collaboration technologyat the White House.Bedly is flexible-term housing built for millennialrentersor basically a WeWork for living spaces.Created for people who dont love getting locked into year-long leases or setting up utilities or furnishing their own apartments, Bedly promises to do away with all that hassle by creating a network of units that are furnished, and come clean and up and running with flexible term leases.Already, the company says it has access to 79 units in New York and Boston care of apartnership with the real estate development and construction company Bozzuto Management.Itsalsoclosing adealwith Boston-based Hodara Real Estate Group soon.Zum is an on-demand platform that provides ridesand care for children ages 5to15 years old.The months-old startup isnt the first to seize on parents anxiety about who is driving their kids around. HopSkipDrive and Shuddle have both received venture funding by selling themselves as the Uber for kids.Whats different about Zum, seemingly, is the level of care and attention families receive. This is a high-touch service that provides families with access to a team of no more than five drivers,so their kidsalways know the person who is picking them up. Zumalso offers extensive care packages, so if a parent cant make it to that dental appointment, a Zum employee will not only drivejunior toher teeth cleaningbut stick around andreturn her home, too.Whether Zum is affordable enough to a wide enough swath of families is probably the big question; presumably, all that service comes at some expense. Still, the company says that since launching in the Peninsula region of the Bay Area in June, it has provided rides to more than 12,000 children and generated $360,000 in revenue.Telepat is a real time communication stackdesigned for the Internet of Things.Its pitch: Streaming big data over different infrastructures both on cloud and on-premise means thateveryInternet of Things product today has to reinvent its own software stack. But Telepat says its real-time data synchronization service completelynullifies the problem.Theres apparentlyhealthy interest in its offering. Its founders say they outsourced part of their technology recently and put it on Github, the site that hosts code for programmers. Within almost no time, they say, theysaw 1,200 deployments, and they insistthose developers are now advocates of theirtechnology. (Another advocate, apparently, is the European Commission, which recently gave the company a $250,000 grant to work on its technology.)Simplifeye is a SaaS platform for medical officesthat connects wearableslike the Apple Watch tohealth record software.The idea here is that these offices are stuck in a desktop mentality. They may be digitizing their medical records, but they arent doing anything with that information.Simplified helps port all that useful datatothe doctors wrist, so she can easily receive pertinent medical alerts and see what shell be doing for her next appointment (among other things).Doctors must like the idea, too. Founded by an orthodontist and a former late-stage VC associate, Simplified already has 200 paying customers and itsays it launched just three weeks ago.