The TechCrunch Disrupt NY Hackathon kicks off tomorrow at the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal, and were honoredto welcome the hackathonsstellar judges.Nick Chirls is a partner at Notation Capital, a pre-seed fund based in Brooklyn that focuses on partnering with technical founders at the infancy of an idea. He previously led the seed investing business at betaworks. He likes Brooklyn based pizza.Kathryn Finney is the founder and Managing Director of digitalundivided (DID), which invests in the success of Black and Latina women foundersby providing them with the network, coaching, and funding to build, scale, and exit their high-growth companies. DID runs the BIG Innovation Center, home to the BIG Accelerator, a 16-week program for high potential startups led by Black and Latina Founders. She is also a General Partner in the Harriet Fund, the first pre-seed venture fund investing in high-potential Black and Latina women-led startups.One of the first social media stars, Kathryn sold her site, The Budget Fashionista, in 2014. She was the editor-at-large at BlogHer, a platform representing 40 million-plus women influencers.An honors graduate of Yale University and Rutgers University and Eisenhower Fellow, Kathryn received the Champion of Change Award in 2013 from the White House for tech inclusion. Shes also listed in Marie Claires 10 Women to Watch in 2016, Entrepreneurs Magazines Woman to Watch in 2016, New York Business Journals Women of Influence Award, SXSW Black Innovator and more. Shes inducted into Spelman Colleges Game Changers Academy.On February 26, 2015 she was honored by Manhattan Borough President Gale Brewer with the Kathryn Finney Appreciation Day.Trained as an architect with a decade-plus of experience in planning and design, Jean founded Sweeten, the first-of-its-kind residential renovation marketplace, matching homeowners with local design and construction experts based on the budget, location, and style of each project. Sweeten has raised $4.3 million in funding, tripled in size in 2015, with more than $300 million in renovation deals posted.During her time as the Senior Manager of Global Architecture at Coach Inc., Jean built and managed web platforms for the design and construction of Coach stores internationally and received the companys Chairmans Award for her work. Jean graduated from The Cooper Union with a Bachelor of Architecture and was selected as one of 9 recipients of the 2011 Loeb Fellowship at Harvard Universitys Graduate School of Design. Jean also co-founded and chairs the African American Student Union (AASU) at Harvards Graduate School of Design, dedicated to supporting African Americans in architecture, real estate, and urban planning.Charlie ODonnell is the sole Partner and Founder at Brooklyn Bridge Ventures. The fund makes seed and pre-seed investments and was the first venture firm located in Brooklyn where he was born and raised. Brooklyn Bridge invested in the first rounds of Canary, Orchard Platform, Tinybop, Hungryroot, Clubhouse, Ringly, and goTenna among others. He has also funded two companies, GroupMe and Docracy, out of the TechCrunch Disrupt Hackathon.Previously, Charlie worked on the investment teams of Union Square Ventures and First Round Capital. He bikes to work, in Gowanus, has done six triathlons, four marathons, and runs the kayaking program in Brooklyn Bridge Park. The longest he has consecutively been outside of the five boroughs of New York City is three weeks.Saron Yitbarek is the founder of CodeNewbie, the most supportive community of programmers and people learning to code. Shes also host of the weekly CodeNewbie Podcast and a program manager at Microsoft for Tech Jobs Academy, a technical training program for talented New Yorkers ready to launch their tech career. You can follow her @saronyitbarek.Want to learn a bit more about the tools available at the hack? Takea deep dive into a few APIs in a classroom-style setting.Microsoft  Saturday 2:00PMWant your app to access user files, contacts, calendar or mail data? How about build a solution that extends Outlook, Word, Excel or Powerpoint with your own UX and code? Or connect 3rd party apps & services like Trello, Twitter, Github into the conversations of Outlook users and groups? The Office developer platform can make this happen for you. Come learn more about Office 365 APIs, Add-ins and Connectors  well show you how they work and provide pointers to help you get started quickly. Learn more @ dev.office.com, dev.outlook.comTwilio  Saturday 2:30PMTwilio makes it easy to connect the people you care about in the languages and frameworks you already know. Come learn how to quickly build apps with Twilio SMS, Voice, and Video.Saturday, May 7, 201612:30pm  Registration opens (come fed or bring a brown bag lunch, beverages served)1:30pm  Hacking Kickoff and Opening Announcements2:00pm  API Workshop: Microsoft2:30pm  API Workshop: Twilio7:00pm  DinnerMidnight  Pizza and beer, courtesyof Domain.comSunday, May 8, 20167:00am  Breakfast served9:30am  Hacking concludes and hacks submitted to wiki10:00am  General public welcome to enter to attend hackathon presentations11:00am  Hackathon presentations begin2:00pm*  TechCrunch and Sponsor awards presented*Final awards may be held earlier or later depending on durationof hack presentations.Please note, times are subject to change