Its that time again! Our annual awards showis coming back around again for 2016. But for our 9th annual Crunchies Awards, weve decided to do a few things differently, and we think youre going to like them.This year, the Crunchies will be held at a new venue, the San Francisco War Memorial Opera House, at 8:00pm on February 8th, 2016.There are also changes with how TechCrunchselects the winners for the Crunchies. As in the past, we will start with nominations from our readers, which begin today. Those nominations will then be refined by our editors into a final list of nominees for each award. When it comes to final voting, however, we are making a big change. We are forming a 100-person Crunchies Board to pick the winners by secret, paper ballot. The Crunchies Board will include TechCrunch editors alongside entrepreneurs, investors and other tech notables, including speakers and judges who have appeared on the Disrupt stage. An independent third party will administer and tally the ballots as well as keep the results secret until we announce the awards on stage. We believe this change will bring more breadth of experience and perspective to selecting the winners of the Crunchies.Weve got a lot more great stuff planned for this years show, but for now, heres a list of the awardsto get you excited. Please head over to the show page and start nominating your favorite candidates in the categories below. Nominations will close on Wednesday, December 2, 2015. Well see you at the Crunchies!Best New Startup of 2015A startup founded or publicly launched this year.Best Overall StartupA star startup in all categories that was founded or launched in the last 5 years. Fastest Rising StartupAn award acknowledging strong growth in a variety of ways.Best Technology AchievementAn exceptional recent technological achievement. Best Mobile ApplicationA recent standout that has earned its place on your home screen. Hardware Of The YearBreakout hardware product of the year.The Include Diversity AwardAn organization or individual that has advanced diversity in tech.Social ImpactExcelling in using technology to effect social impact.Founder of the YearA founder that has made a statement in leadership and execution this year.Angel Investor of the YearA breakout portfolio.VC of the YearAn investor whose bets on founders and companies has borne fruit this year.CEO of the YearA true leader of a standout organization.To get your tickets for the Crunchiesyou can click on overhere. We hope to see you there.Our sponsors help make the Crunchieshappen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.