Did you miss out on the first few waves of tickets to the Hackathon at Disrupt London 2015? Dont fret. Theres another round of tickets just been released.To score your spot at the best Hackathon in London, just head over to our ticketing page to sign up. But definitely do so quickly, as previous batches of tickets have sold out pretty quickly, and theres a very good chance these ones will, as well.And were pleased to announce your hackathon MCs Gemma Cameron and Nikesh Ashar. We are really excited to see everyone at the Disrupt Hackathon in December. Who are we, you ask?Gemma, ofHackManchester, isan accomplished software developer with over 10 years of experience. She hasbeen involved in the tech community for over eight years, organising, running and speaking. HackManchester has just finished its fourth annual 24-hour coding competition, which means she has had lots of experience working with the sleep-deprived and brilliant contenders of hackathons.Nikeshisbased at Makers Academy HQin London. He quit his job in early 2014 to dive into full time software development. During his career, he has been involved in some form of travel, technology and education. Over the last year, Makers Academy has coached over 250 people into junior developers who are all contributing back to the tech community in one way or another. He has attended and hosted a number of hackathons and says he can generally spot a winner.The Hackathon at Disrupt London 2015 takes place from December 5-6 at Londons Copper Box Arena, followed by the general conference on December 7-8. If you love making things and making connections with like-minded hackers, youre definitely going to want to be there.The Hackathon itself takes place all weekend, starting on Saturday, December 5. At 12:30 p.m. youll be meeting the other attendees to form your Hackathon teams. On Sunday, December 6, after more than 20 hours of hacking, building and coding, teams will have a mere 60 seconds to present their projects to a panel of judges on the Disrupt stage.Teams are competing for the opportunity to win the coveted TechCrunch $5,000 (about 3,300) grand prize, tickets to the main Disrupt London conference, as well as several gadgets, toys and other monetary prizes from our incredible sponsors.All teams who earn a score of 3 or higher will win two tickets to Disrupt, where theyll get to attend all the fireside chats, browse the awesome startups in Hardware and Startup Alley, and network with investors, entrepreneurs and makers at all of the parties and after-parties.The Hackathon is a place for both hardware and software startups  the hardware company Shower With Friends won the event at Disrupt SF in 2014, and software company Infected Flight won the London Hackathon in 2014. So bring your great ideas and spend the weekend bringing them that much closer to reality.We seriously cant wait to see what you all come up with, but youll need to get your tickets first. Head on over to our ticketing page to secure your spot in the Hackathon.