Some more details are emergingaround AOLs reorganization plans. Sources tell us thatthecompany will lay offaround 150 people, with the majority insales. As part of it, AOL is also consolidating some websites. Gaming siteJoystiq and Apple news site TUAW are both being folded into Engadget, and AOL Autoshas already beenfolded into Autoblog.We reported about AOL undertaking asite restructuringearlier this month. Re/code reported on the sales reorganization.While Verge earlier today reportedthat both tech blogs were being closed, thisis not quite accurate: Joystiqwill stay on as a separate channel at Engadget, while TUAW content will be folded into the bigger site, we understand. Its still being decided whether the two brand names will remain. (Update: Im sad to add that the Joystiq closure appears to be official now and many are out of a job.)There will be other site consolidations, too, we have heard.Parentdish in the UK andMyDaily, also in the UK, are going to become a part of Huffington Posts UK site.As for the sales reorg, AOL is making more of a shift into programmatic advertising, which means a heavier investment in technology with less emphasis on salespeople.The news is coming ahead of AOL reporting its Q4earnings on February 11. As we noted before, restructuring should not come as a surprise, given statements made during its last earningsin November 2014.As we look out to 2015, our strategy and decisions will be driven by the following organizing principles, CEO Tim Armstrong during theearnings call. Number one, well focus our capital allocationresource management and management time against scaled assets and platforms. Two, we will organize our asset portfolio around scaled valueand scaled growth assets. Three, well simplify everything that can be simplified.Later he focused on ways that thiscould be implemented, noting that the company will look for an increase in the value and growth of our global content brands by simplifying the portfolio of brands and increasingour share of video and mobile in key content areas.While TUAW and Joystiq both havelongstanding reputations and brands in the tech world, their traffic has been in decline. Both came to AOL via its acquisition of Weblogs in 2005; at the time the group operated some 90 blogs.Armstrongs statements in November point toAOL looking to cut out costs (read: people and unprofitable operations) as it pushes ahead to make the revenue drivers into more solid businesses.In Q3, AOL made $454.5 million from advertising revenues (combining AOL properties display, AOL properties search and third-party platform), which worked out to about 73% of all of its $626.8 million in revenues for the quarter. But if you look at the companys profit, it is currently driven not byits advertising business but by its subscriptions revenues (eg its legacy dial-up business and other paid services). The Membership Group posted adjusted operating income of $139.2 million, while Platforms posted an adjusted operating loss of $600,000, and the Brand group had adjusted operating income of $17 million.Updated throughout with more background and details.