Will Verizon snap up Yahoos web assets  and what might that look like? We dont have an answer just yet, but theres one personwho might have some ideas about what it would look like: Aol CEO Tim Armstrong, who will be joining us at Disrupt NY in May this year.And naturally, its around the time to start asking again what Aol looks like under Verizon.Armstrongs been with Aol since 2009 when he joined to be CEO and chairman of the company. He was at Google before that, and hes been a big player in Aols focus on video and advertising technology. He then turned around and sold the company for $4.4 billion to Verizon.Aols the owner of an empire of content, overseeing brands like Engadget, The Huffington post and, yes, TechCrunch.Videos a big part of Aols future. And there have been a lot of developments in mobile video, most recently with Facebook unveiling live video streaming (and a video of an exploding watermelon promptly hitting nearly a million concurrent viewers). And there are other players like Twitter and Snapchat that arehugewhen it comes tovideo.These platforms are making big pushes into live video  so theres also the question as to whether Aol plans to jump in as well.And then theres the advertising side, which Aol is making big pushes into with moves like its acquisition of Millennial Media. But as more and more attention shifts to the big platforms, so too has a huge chunk of the advertising dollars. Mobile advertising looks a lot different in 2016, and well hear a bit about Aols strategy as the year goes on.Well be talking a bit about the future of video and advertising alongside the rest of all that, and Union Square Ventures Fred Wilsonwill be joining Armstrongon stage during the discussion. Wilsons got a lot of experience when it comes to tech in general, so well be picking his brain along with Armstrongs to find out more about video, Aols strategy  and maybe why Yahoo might be a good fit for Verizon.Armstrong said in Disrupt London that Aol is focusing on its core strategy for 2016, but now that 2016 is here, well see if things have changed at all.Weve got a lot to talk about in May with Armstrong, Wilson and the rest of our Disrupt NY speakers  so join us in Brooklyn this year. Theres still time to grab a ticket at early bird pricing.