Curious to see which apps are in the Top Charts on the Apple TV App Store, without having to actually browse to that section on Apples new media player? Starting today, you can get this information more easily, thanks to App Annies additionof Apple TV data in its Store Stats product, which now tracks the top free, paid and top grossing apps on the Apple TV App Store.The launch follows this weeks move from Apple to alsoinclude Apple TV data in its own App Analytics service, allowing tvOS developers to monitor their apps performance, including user engagement, monetization, downloads, and more.Along with its announcement of Apple TV support, App Annie unveiled some of itslatest findings about the early Apple TV app ecosystem.In terms of the variety of applications, App Annie found a fairly homogenous group for the time being, noting that Games and Entertainment apps accounted for the majority of the 100 free apps by downloads. (Only in the U.S. did the Entertainment apps actually outnumber games.)And the top five categories on the Apple TV App Store, which also included News, Education, Sports, or Lifestyle apps  depending on which countrys store was being examined  accounted for the overwhelming majority of free apps on Apple TV, the firm noted.In the U.S., the top 5 categories accounted for 91 percent of apps downloaded, for example, while in the U.K. they accounted for 80 percent.App Annie additionally took a look at how the top two categories on Apple TV  Games and Entertainment apps  compared with their respective shares on iPad in Japan, the U.K., and the U.S.In Japan, the percentage of Apple TV games among the top 100 free apps by downloads has been consistent with whats been seen on iPad, says App Annie, but in the U.K., and even more so in the U.S., that has not been the case. In both markets, the percentage of Apple TV games trails that of iPad. In fact, many of the most popular gaming titles from iOS have not yet moved to Apple TV at this time.Thanks to App Annies new charts, developers will be able to dive into data related to anapps movement, as they couldpreviously with mobile applications. That means, you could take a look at things like the daily ranks for an app acrossvarious countries, or view charts that show the apps download ranks or grossing ranks plotted out over time.In case youre curious, the top 10 free, paid, and grossing apps for the U.S. Apple TV App Store are below.As you can see, media and entertainment apps dominate both the free and top grossing charts. And even the top 10 paid app list shows that early adopters of Apples upgraded TV platform are willing to spend on things that gobeyond games, with educational apps like Solar Walk 2, Space Telescope or ISS Live: Video from the International Space Station and NASA TV speckled throughout the top 10.Thats promising for Apple TVs potential beyond a TV device or gaming platform, as it shows that customers are interested in exploring other types of applications outsidetodaystwo leading categories.