App Annie, whose mobile app intelligence platform is now used by over 700,000 applications and 94 percent of the top 100 publishers, is today expanding its feature set with the debut of in-app analytics. The service, launching now into an open beta, integrates with Google Analytics, allowing app developers a way to view usagemetrics across five app stores alongside data from 34 advertising platforms in an online dashboard.Supported app stores include Apples iTunes, Google Play, the Amazon Appstore, the Windows Store, and the Windows Phone Store. Meanwhile, App Annie is able to pull in ad data from services like Tapjoy, Inmobi, Applovin, Facebook, AdMob, AppLift and many more.The reason why usage data is so critical to todays app developers is because it helps them gain insight into how engaging their app is withusers, and how likely it is that users will return.This is of increasing importance in todays app marketplace, where so many hit apps turn out to be temporary chart busters  not all that dissimilar from the one-hit wonders that grace the music scene from time to time. Consumers will often play with a new title for a period of time, sending it skyrocketing, but then grow bored with it and abandon it.Most developers arent interested in a quick boom-then-bust cycle, but rather want to create an experience that keeps users returning steadily and repeatedly over time. And for game-makers, they too want to make sure that as they release new levels and upgrades, theyre hitting the right notes with their core user base, as well.With in-app analytics, explains App Annie, developers will be able to gain insights like whether or not their apps retention is on par with their prior apps, if their messaging strategy is working to increase daily sessions or session length, if Android users are more or less engaged than iOS users, if the app sees good engagement in criticalinternational markets like Japan, Korea or China, and other key metrics.Whats more, because App Annie is already tracking app store and advertising performance, its able to tie all these metrics together in asingle dashboard. This allows developers to see things like how much additional revenue theyve gained as they increase their app usage, for example. With the inclusion of usage data, App Annies dashboard now shows total sessions, total time, average sessions per user (per day, week or month), average session duration, and active user data (DAU, WAU, or MAU).App Annies move intoin-appanalyticsdatafollows the companys acquisition of Mobidia earlier this year. At the time, the company explained that it had understood the value ofusage data for app developers and that by bringing Mobidia into the fold, it could quickly expand its dataset  especially in terms of its international reach. The combination of the two datasets allowed App Annie to provide current and historical data across millions of users in 60 countries on both iOS and Android.The acquisition was announced alongside the launch of App Annies Usage Intelligence product, which had been in beta testing since the beginning of the year. By acquiring its closest competitors (including, previously, Distimo), and moving to expand its product lineup, App Annies goal is to make it more difficult for rivals to catch up with its momentum. Due to its feature set and focus on the needs of larger publishers, App Annie has gained big-name customers over the years, likeElectronic Arts, Google, LinkedIn, Line, Microsoft, Nexon, Nestle, Samsung, Tencent, Bandai Namco, Universal Studios and Dow Jones, to name a few. Combined, its customer base accounts for nearly half of all app store revenue.In-App Analytics is currently a free offering, says App Annie. To get started, developers dont need to install an SDK  they just add Google Analytics as a new connection on their dashboard.