Bug fixes.Jam packed full of Super Amazing Things.Every 3 weeks, we polish up the Pinterest app to make it faster and better than ever.To make our app better for you, we bring updates to the App Store every 2 weeksEvery update of our Facebook app includes improvements for speed and reliability. As other new features become available, well highlight those for you in the app.Mobile app publishers have begun to play fast and loose with their release notes, which is the area where theyre supposed to communicate the changes shipping with themost recent app update to the end users. This inattention to detail is a disservice to users, who no longer have the benefit of understanding what the updated app will now do or not do  as the case may be.Without details, users cant make an informed decision about whether they want to install that update at all.Theydont know what functionality has changed or how theuserexperience is being affected. They dont know if the changes are even bad or good. For example, users wouldnt know if a favorite feature is being pulled, or if the app has made improvements that now lets itwork better with certain devicesincluding perhaps, theirs.Many peopletoday automatically update apps when new versions becomeavailable. That shift in user behavior, made possible by mobile OS enhancements,could have encouraged developers to start skimping on writing detailedrelease notes, as they knew the notes werent being read as often as before. Plus, they didnt have to use this section to make the case as towhy an update should be installed.However, even in thecase of automatic updates, it seems users shouldhave the right to know, at the very least, whether the update includes only minor tweaks or security improvements; whether the app is adding or removingfeatures; whether the update means the app is changing its business model (e.g. rolling out advertisements); and so on.Will most users still download the update, knowing whats changed? Probably. But does that mean they didnt deserve an explanation?The growing trend to not disclose whats included in an apps update coulddate back to Facebooks decision last year to roll out its updates at a quicker pace. The company said at the time that it would begin to push out new releasesmonthly, and its modified update text implied that users would no longer need to read these release notes as any new features wouldinstead be flagged within the app itself.Not everyone agreed with thisstrategy, though. Amid some backlash, a Facebook engineer even took the comments on a blog post to explain why Facebook made this move.They noted that many changes are under-the-hood improvements and bug fixes; many are trivial; and that, when Facebook launches new features, they dont release to everyone at once. In other words, if the Facebook app update text said that it was rolling out new feature X, it could actually confuse users whenthey didnt seeit in their own app following the update.That being said, the all-or-nothing approach to writing release notes may not be the correct solution. After all, at some point, that slow-to-roll-out feature will eventually hit Facebooks entire mobile user base  and couldntit be disclosed then?Of course, writing release notes can be one of the more tedious tasks engineers face. Maybe they seem pointless, or a waste of time. Maybe when the update is really just a collection of tiny tweaks, it would take too long to detail them. Maybe those tweaks are over the heads of the apps non-technical user base.But to opt-out of writing relevant release notes altogether? Shame on you, app makers.Facebook may have kicked off thistrend, but its hardly the only company fudging its release notes these days.Pinterest, too, has followed suit. And that above quote about super amazing things comes from Tinder, which is probably one of the more egregious recent examples.When the tinder update should be your bio pic.twitter.com/yV1p13Ap36 miley whats good (@crunchywater2x) September 4, 2015Plus, itsmore common than ever to see notes that simply state: Bug fixes and performance improvements, like Yahoo, Hulu, Google, Flipboard, LinkedIn, Microsoft, and several others have done over the course of the past month alone.It seems that once youre a certified big company, having to actually detail which bugs just got squashed is no longer your job.More importantly, the lack of detail in release notes makes a statement about what a company thinks of its user base  that their users dont care about minor changes, so why bother? Its that same old elitist behavior  common in the I.T. industry, in particular  which elevates technical staff above the plebeian, unimportant users.Move!, demands amodern-day Nick Burns by way of the vague release notes. Ill just update that app for you, dont concern yourself with the details.Some developers have even started using the release notes as a place to write stories or draw pictures.Sometimes this works, as itcalls attention to a new feature or series of fixes in a clever way. For example, blogging app Medium actually pasted in the developers Slack conversation in the July release notes. The latest version describes a fictional phone conversation with Grandma to talk about changes to the apps home feed.But other times, the silliness can go awry  such as when Mediums August 4th release included only an ASCII picture of a bug along with the comment, FIXES.@jaredsinclair the worst. pic.twitter.com/E3hQnmq2Lr  Sammy Guergachi (@SGuergachi) August 17, 2015Meanwhile, Tumblr users applauded the humorous short story embedded in the August 17th release notes, as the best ever. But while the story, reminiscent of some of the bad fan fiction that populates Tumblrs website, was fun to read, the release notesforgot to includea footnote about what actually changed in version 4.3.1.Tumblr release notes with a little vignette about board meetings. Very close to reality. ;-P pic.twitter.com/H2bm10Y3GK  John Lilly (@johnolilly) August 25, 2015Thats not to say that anyone having fun with the release notes is worthy of condemnation.For example, the developer of star-gazing app Pocket Universe often includes a short story in the update text, too. But alongside that story, he lists informative bullet points of the changes, noting things like supplementary star names displayed if larger star catalog activated or improved 3D rendering, .Meanwhile, team communication app Slack has mastered the balance between having fun and providing users with the information they need  which is not surprising, given how well the app itself mashes up the joy found in using consumer apps with the needs of the corporate crowd.In Slacks release notes, each line item is explained with a touch of humor, e.g. Fixed: trying to add a reaction while reactions were still loading was a chain of events simply too exciting for the app, which would crash in a tizzy. So much calmer now.Fixed: the Switch Teams button will now always be at the bottom of the flexpane instead of occasionally, confusingly, maddeningly trading places with the Invite button. Sorry about that.At the end of the day, if a developer wants to have fun with the release notes, thats up to them. But no matter what, they should still feel aresponsibility to their customers to communicate whats being installed on end users devices.After all, mobile phones and tablets are often usersprimary computers these days, and the most personal technology peopleown. Usersmay still install your app when asked, but everyonehas a right to know what that software update includes.