This weekend, Apples App Store head Phil Schiller responded to complaints that spam apps and rip-offs were appearing in the App Stores New and Whats Hot sections for certain categories. Unfortunately, this has been a longtime issue for Applesthird-party application marketplace, and the subject of much developer frustration over the years. Schiller, whotook over responsibility for managing the App Storefrom Eddy Cue in December, addressed the problem on Twitter, saying that this should not be happening and he will look into it.The issue has to do with the App Stores algorithm,which recommends new apps and games to try, based on new releases and whats trending on the App Store. However, the problem is that instead of picking out great and engaging new titles, the algorithm had been picking up a variety of 2048 applications which are copycat versions of the popular Threes game. In fact, the featured Puzzle section on the iTunes App Store was filled with these rip-off versions, which prompted severalangry tweets.The issue is actually related toan old bug, and one which had been marked as being resolved by Apple in the past. The issue also seems to affect non-U.S. App Stores more often.Allowing the App Store to fill with these lower-quality clones is one thing, but to actually feature them and recommend them to end users is quite another. And its clearwhy this would incite developer backlash.If this was an isolated incident, developers would probably be more forgiving of whats just a bug that needs a fix. However, the App Store is plagued with issues related to rankings and discoverability of apps, and many third-party developers feel that the platform has not received the attention it deserved over the years.It is promising and notable then, that Schiller publicly acknowledged this particular problem and promised to address it.Schillers response on Twitter was in reply to a tweet from Screenshot++ developer Wesley Dyson who highlighted another tweet from Mozillas Lisa Brewster about the issue with the comment, I believe this is your department now. Rip-off apps should never be showcased by Apple.@WesleyDyson @Adora Shouldnt happen. Well look into it. Thank you. Philip Schiller (@pschiller) March 13, 2016App Store editors, you had one job https://t.co/uLLOuXTDvb Lisa Brewster (@Adora) March 12, 2016(hat-tip: 9to5Mac)