Apple has plunged billionsof dollars into making its global operations more efficient with renewable energy. The bulk of that push, which has won praise from Greenpeace,has come in the U.S.and Europe, but today Apple unveiled a suite of initiatives designed to make its business in China the country where its revenue is positively booming  greener, too.Timed in conjunction with CEO Tim Cooks visit to the country, theU.S. company revealed that it will work with its manufacturing partners in China to help them becomemore energy efficient and to use clean energy for their manufacturing operations. Apple further explained that it is working with said suppliers, which include Foxconn, to add more than two gigawatts of clean energy to those operations in the next few years.That move alone is notable, since Apples China-based manufacturers have long been accused of polluting the environment. Back in 2011, iPhone supplier Pegatron was reprimandedover environmental concerns, while Apple reportedly clamped down on Foxconn andUniMicron in 2013 following accusations that theyreleased watertainted by toxic metals into rivers.One companys initiatives wont elicit a full clean up of Chinas manufacturing industry, but Apple putting pressure on its partners to be more environmental friendly is a majordevelopment. Indeed, Foxconns own pledge today to create 400 megawatts of solar power by 2018  the equivalent, it said, of the energy it uses for final production of the iPhone  is proof of the potential for change.Applealso revealed today that its operations in China are now carbon neutral.Thats because  thanks to the completion of a 40 megawatts solar power system in the Sichuan Province  the company now produces more electricityin China than it uses in its offices and retail stores in the country.The U.S. giant said it isnt done there, and it plans to extend its solar projects with an additional 200 megawatts through projects in the north, east and south of China. It claimed that, once these additional facilities come online, its green energy productionwill produce the equivalent of the energy used by more by than 265,000 Chinese homes in a year and will begin to offset the energy used in Apples supply chain.Climate change is one of the great challenges of our time, and the time for action is now, Cooksaid in a statement. The transition to a new green economy requires innovation, ambition and purpose. We believe passionately in leaving the world better than we found it and hope that many other suppliers, partners and other companies join us in this important effort.Apple is certainly setting the bar for others to follow. The company is carbon neutral in the U.S. and China, while it claimed that renewable energy powers 87 percent of its international operations.