Its a standard Apple play to shave a few atoms off the waists of itsgadgets come refresh time  allowing the companys marketing department to crowaboutthinner flagships thatalso pack more power and boast betterscreens, or both.If rumors about anext generation model of theMacBook Air areto be believed, for instance, Apple is planning to slice the laptopsthickness roughly in half, while boosting itsdisplay size from 11 inches to 12, mostly by reducing the bezel, so itsoverall footprint hardly grows atall.But this party trick of packing more into less requires something to give. Likelyspace for certainphysical ports, in the case of the rumored skeletalMacBook Air.While, forcurrent iPhone flagships, the 6.9mm thick (thin)iPhone 6 and the7.1mm iPhone 6 Plus, a degree ofform-factorintegrity has clearlybeen lost in the quest to achieve size 0 smartphones  hence thebendgatesaga.iPhonesthatwerentquite so thin would probably have stood up a littlemore robustly when people stuck them in their back pockets and sat on themfor hours. But those arent the iPhones Applemade.Still bendgate is small beer compared to the most complained about compromise ofslimmer gadgets: battery life. Limiting physical size negatively constrains battery capacity, since the space for housing cells is probablyshrinking too. Its certainly not being allowed to balloon, year on year.Even though Apple typically optimizes hardware and softwareto offer the same battery life  or sometimes a slight improvement  in refreshed devices itdoes not offer headline-grabbing,orders of magnitude improvements. Such leaps are reserved foritsnewchipset or a better display or the aforementionedthinner form factor.Partly this is because improvements to battery technology have been more incremental than othertech developments. But its also a measure of the constraints Apples external design demands place on the innards of i-Devices. With increasingly slender gadgets, something has to give  and that something is substantialimprovements inbattery life.If Apple was content with a philosophy of thin enoughit could allow a little more spaceinside its gadgets, year on year, to make room forbigger batteries toaddress what remains a very mainstreamgripe: devicesthatgive out before theirusersdo.Getting a days mixed use from a smartphone remains theexpected standard. More careful use caneke out a little more life. Heavier use will require you to be packing a spare battery or charger. So the irony is that the thinnest, most apparently aspirational gadgets end up being tethered to a wall or attached to an auxiliary battery pack tokeep them juiced up.Anyone who grew up in an earlier technology era, when home computers typically demanded a substantialchunkof your desk space, and portability meant lugging around a dead-weight with a handle attached, understands Applesimperative to slim down the kit.But there comes a point where size, surely, no longer matters. Where a phone or a laptop or a computer isnow thin enough for even the most fashion conscious gadget owner. And yet still Apple thins.Itsconsistency here makes slimmingaclear strategy. But whats the logic of Appleswell-crafted thinness?Buildingthe thinnest devices, or at least continually pushing in that direction and championing thinness, gives Apples competitors very little room for maneuverwith their own hardwaredesigns. It allows Apple to makethe most of its expertise inengineeringboth hardware and software together, working within its own ever tightening margins  and forcing its rivals to do the same. Or fail trying.Competing gadgets that fail to achieve such slender proportions areinevitably compared unfavorably with i-Devices on size and weight. Thats Apple owning the slender top of the market.On the flip side Applearguably has to keepraisingthe bar  or rather shaving the bar  for what constitutes high end luxury in order to stay ahead of the i-Clones. So this is both a race and a chase.Another factor to consider is that for smartphones and tablets, and even for laptops, hardware differentiation is all butdead. Computing devices are mostly screennow. Or screenplus keyboard. There are so few physical ingredients in the established recipe that its all but impossible to blend a distinct flavor.Especially withApple owningminimalism.So less really can be more when it comes to computing hardware design.A more physically differentiateddesign risks being perceived as cluttered or clumsy or ugly or distracting vs the minimalist high end. Again, Apple gets to sit pretty by owning the aesthetic top of the market  which alsomeans it needs to keep building thinner to play by its own reductive rules.Making devicesthinneris also one of thefew ways left to differentiate hardware in a very bland space thats mostlydone away with otherphysicalquirks. Color is another option, and one which Apple plays with fromtime to time, but typicallyfor non-flagship devices (like iPods or the iPhone 5c) orfor its own brand accessories.It keeps itstruly high end devicesrelatively color-free, with a focus on minimalist monochromes and metallics. And soApple needs to make itsdevicesthinner, year on year, to achieve adesignsplash.Another characteristic of thinner devices is how theynaturallyreduce interactionchoice for the user  with fewer physical entry points into these devices. Theyare shiny shells encouraging greater reliance on the walled garden ecosystem that created them. Physical ports and slots are pared back to a bare minimum. Storage is probably not user-expansible. Batteries arent replaceable.All of which limits what users can do vis-a-vis the iOS ecosystem, and makes their behaviour more predictable and controllable. That in turn allows Apple to construct a more accessible environment, with fewer available choices supportinga simpler, more mainstream-friendly interface.If the user cant do things like expand storage themselves,or buy a replacement battery, theycan be more easily nudged by Apple topay for cloud storageor encouraged to upgrade to a new i-Device. Its all aboutfunneling users along theCupertino-controlled pipe.These constraints help with ecosystem lock-in too. The more invested the user becomes in the iOS ecosystem and Apples iCloud, the more locked in to itshardwarethey are with the cumulative build up of associated digitalcontent working todissuade them from switching to another platform.Slender, reductive devices are therefore a visual expression of the ecosystem lock in whichgiveApples business its staying power.Building thinner hardwarealso means the most perishablepiece of technology inside i-Devices  thebattery  islocked away inside a seamless shell. With no user access,the lifespan of the mobile devicebecome inextricably (literally)linkedto theoverall lifespan of the battery.You could even argue that constrained battery capacity helps to encourage user charging patterns that wear abattery out more quickly. Smartphone users typically charge their devices every night, since battery life is limited, and if they are using the phone a lot in the day might well discharge the device entirely. Which isnot necessarily a great way to treatlithium-ion cells if you want them to lastEither way, the bottom line is Apple makes moneywhen device users upgrade, and given its business involves sellingexpensive devicesthat arecraftedfrom premium materials the most common reason for an upgrade  certainly for Apples mobile devices  is a worn out battery. Hardware thinness thus helps Apple generate and regulate recurringrevenue.Sowhats the end game? Can Apple keep making its i-Devices thinner and thinner? Obviously it wouldhit someatomic limits eventually, but it still has a few millimeters left for sacrificing to the gods of thinness before it gets to that point  which, at its typically yearly refresh cycle  should keep the strategy ticking over in the short term.In the meanwhile Apple isbuilding a new type of wearable device, the Apple Watch, due to arrive this March. This is new territory for Apple, with thesmartwatch beingauxiliaryto the corecomputing devices in its portfolio. So itopens up the possibility ofa littlestrategic expansion ofits hardware philosophy.The Apple Watchis a supplementary device that offers a degree offunction and design flare overspill, while allowing Apple to maintain the slender form-factorsof themaster iOS devices it is intended to be used with.It is also supplementary in the sense that it aims to lift extradollars out of the wallets of existing iOS users. It is of courseanother iOSlock-in incentive. And one which seeksto expand the reach and knowledge of the ecosystem, by attaching aneven more personal data point to users. And while wearables as a consumer electronics category have, thus far, been pretty uninspiring Apple will be aiming to break the mould  as ithas a history of doing so.Apple also has a history of beingcomfortablecannibalizing its own business building the iPhone toabsorb the iPods function, for instance. And more recently making a phablet-sized iPhone, despite plenty of overlap with its smaller iPads.Where theApple Watch will fit in on this function overlap spectrum is not clear at this point. That will depend on salesand how unique (or otherwise) the app experiences are vs iPhone/iPad. But it seems likely that some cannibalization is coming.Either way, thats fine for Apples hardware business, given the watch usesBluetoothconnectivity  requiring it to linkto an iPhone to function. Apples main concern here will be ensuring the Watch offers new utility to wearers to justify that second purchase.Part of the utility of theApple Watch is likely to be the ability to check notifications without needing to dip intoa bag or pocket todo so. Perhaps even without needing to view a screen at all (e.g.haptic feedback informing the watch wearer to turn as they walk). So not needing to check an iPhone quite so much. Or not as much as youotherwise would.Depending on howwellApple manages theBluetooth link with the iPhone, the Apple Watchcould then effectively functionasawearable spare battery pack for iPhone users  if itends upre-routing enough usage away fromthe primary mobile device to anauxiliary wearable.If thats the case, Apples 2015party trick couldbe more slender iPhones withbattery life thatappears improved thanks to a portion ofmobile usage being re-routed to the Apple Watch while simultaneouslymakingmore money from its user-base.Quite the sleight of hand, if Apple can pull it off.