Conventional wisdom dictates that Apple and its expensive devices perform best in Western markets, where operator-subsidized contracts are commonplace and consumer spending power is greater. China aside, Asia has been a tough nut for Apple to crack, but it turns out the U.S. company is doing a lot better in India than many may have expected.Apple accounted for less than one percent of smartphone sales nationwide in Q3 2015, buta new report from IDC found it racked up4.6 percent of salesin Indias top 30 cities  which the analyst firm estimates account for 51 percent of country-wide sales  during the last quarter of business.In fact, Applesshare of sales is higher still at5.8 percent if you look only at Indias tier-one cities. In addition, IDC claimed, the launchof the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus last year saw Appleretain the crown as the top seller inthe $300-plus segment, hauling in 42.1 percent of the market despite the price of the devices in India initially being the highest in the world.This is the first time that IDC has published figures that drill down tocity-level in India, soit isnt possible to analyzegrowth based on previous quarters. But, even standing alone, the data demonstratesthat Apples recent decision to increase its focus on India  where it wantstosell refurbished older devices to stretch its pricing range, is working to open its own retail outlets, and has slashedprices  is coming for good reason.With 220 million smartphone users, India is now a larger market for phone makers than the U.S.. But there are a couple of factors worth recalling when thinking about the opportunityfor Apple and others in the high-end of the market.Budget devices dominate when it comes to volume. IDC estimates that two-thirds of the smartphones sold in Indias tier-two and tier-three cities  which alone account for just over 20 percent of the market  are priced below $100. Thats a bracket that Apple simply doesnt play in, even with older phones, and thats why itis not among the top sellers based on nationwide marketshare. But the company has always emphasized highermargins, and financialindicators such as its first billion dollar sales yearand a 76 percent annual sales increase  show it is making progress in India.Apple aside, the IDC report found that Samsung leads the field in urban areas, with 29.4 percent of sales across Indias top 30 cities and 28.7 percent in tier-one locations. Home-grown rival Micromax followed the Korean company in both of those rankings, ahead of a glut of Android makers and Apple. Interestingly, Xiaomi,which is placing significant focus on India, sold less than Apple in urban areas, according to IDCs numbers, although the figures dont represent all sales across the country.