It would appear that Apple cant stop, wont stop when it comes to iPhone sales.After two blockbuster quarters in a row  Apple sold a record-breaking 74.5 million iPhones in Q1 2015 and 61 million iPhones in Q2  Apple has completed what is traditionally its slowest quarter selling 47.5million units of the iPhone. Thats a yearly increase of 35percent.Analysts expected Apple to sell around 50 million units of the iPhone, which would represent a 42 percent jump year-over-year. In other words, this quarters iPhone sales were just slightly under what analysts expected.Though iPhone sales are down from the quarter before, which were down from the quarter before that, its important to remember that the fall unveiling of new models of the product usually mean slowed sales in preceding months.That said, the iPhone continues to dominate as Apple expands into new markets, namely China. Just last week, the company announced its fourth Hong Kong location, one of four locations on the island and one of 23 retail locations in greater China.iPad sales are also slightly down, with Apple selling 10.9units of the iPad in Q3 2015. Analyst consensus pegged this quarters iPad sales at around 11 million units.Last quarter, Apple also failed to meet analyst expectations for the iPad, selling just 12.6 million units compared to 16 million units the previous year. This quarters 10.9million units sold represents an 18percent yearly slide, and a month-over-month decline of 13percent. Obviously the category is still young  the iPad is just five years old  so its hard to tell if the declining trajectory of iPad is going to continue.That said, Apples newest version of iOS software, complete with split-screen multitasking on iPad and a new QuickType keyboard (which turns your fingers into a usable cursor) could transform the iPad from a predominantly consumption-based tool to something that can be used more for productivity.Macs, by comparison, are still on their way up, with Apple selling 4.7 millionunits of the Mac in the three-month period ending June 28. That represents a quarterly increase of 5percent, up 9percent year-over-year.This is particularly impressive given the lackluster performance of the PC industry as a whole over the past year, though much of Apples success has to do with refreshed MacBook Pros and iMacs in the past quarter. The new, slimmer-than-can-be-real MacBook went on sale April 10 (just a few days after this quarter began) and the updated 15-inch MacBook Pro and 27-inch iMac went live in stores in mid-May, giving all three products time to shine. Not to mention, folks are likely stocking up on back-to-school devices during these summer months.While Apple didnt break down individual salesofApple TV,Beats Electronics, iPods, and the oft-discussed Apple Watch, the category collectively made $2.6 billion in revenue, up 49 percent year-over-year.