
Tom Goodwin is senior vice president of strategy and innovation at Havas Media.Lastweek we didnt see Apples thinnest products ever, but its thinnest event ever.From a company obsessed with reductivism, we saw an event with little actual news and zerounexpected surprises just simple linear iterations of devices weve seen countless time before.And for a company that defined conventional marketing, we saw a lot of tricks like line filling and lifecycle marketingthat used to only be used by lesser companies. Instead, we now have 77 SKUs of iPad to chase ever dwindling sales.Many people wont be shocked;expectations were low and hardware innovation is hard (and boy is Apple making it look so). Somaybe the lesson is this: we shouldnt be focusing on hardware anymore. Perhaps insteadwe need to focus on what happens when hardware andsoftware cometogether.The first era was hardware:What can it do?Yoink.Until the early 2000s, technology was entirely a hardware race. Wefocused on processing power, memory, and storage. It wasan age of Pentium processors, intel inside, and MBs (then GBs) of storage.Back then,buying a phone came with a decision architecture we now barelyremember:Do you want a camera phone, a music phone, or one designed for email? Everything was about the physicality:how many megapixels does thecamera have andhow many songs can be stored?Yet increasingly, we dont think this way anymore.Its not that hardware isnt important (its more vital than ever), its just becoming the invisible foundation thats essential but invisible.In fact, devices launched today that are primarily hardware breakthroughs (like the Apple Watch)have had limited success.Weve moved on to caring about whats built on top ofpowerful devices:software.Software became the interface:How did it feel?A few of the phones that came beforethe iPhone were technically more impressive, had greater specs, and could even do more.But while the Nokia N95 had the same capabilities as the iPhone, the feeling of using it was by any measure much worse.WhatiOS and the App Store startedwas thinking about products in terms of the user experience, and what Apple did uniquely well was designhardware and software together. Weve now becomeattuned to thinking of products this way. We choose banks less because of location or lobby size, but because of the functionality of the app.We favor Hotel Tonight, Amazon, Nest, One Medical (the list goes on)because of the delight of the design, not the boring,tangible elements.Software is starting to change how we think about products.Weve only ever known products to get worse, to become increasingly obsolete and dated as they age, but now Tesla cars actually get better, safer, and faster with age, all thanks to updatesbeamed over the internet.We now see cars advertised on the basis of running Android Auto.We even see car companies try to move upstream from being makers of carsto being providers of mobility.Traditionally, this is where Apple succeeded. Developing software and hardware together made Apple products just work.Everything wassimple, reliable, and easy. Yet from a totally nonsensical product like iTunes, to the unchangingly disastrous Apple Maps, to the bugs of botched iOS updates, to the clearly unfinished Apple TV software, thats clearly no longer the case.In fact, its the failures of the Apple TVthat shinea light into the future of productsas a combination of hardware, software, and partnerships.Products as platformsWhats stopped the Apple TV from creating a revolution in how we watch TV is the inability of the TV industry to work with Apple in supplying content.Both the content you can access and the devices ability to deep link to aid searcharelimited not by software or hardware but by commercial partnerships.The Windows phone was a superb device with a very underrated operating system. And itfailed because nobody wanted to develop apps (let alone businesses)for it. Apple Pay and Android Pay both work superbly, but their future success relies on theability to work with retailers and banks to improve the experience.Companies now need to think not just in terms of what a device can do, but how it can interact with other devices, our lives, and the world around us. Its less about singular items and moreabout the ability to do commercial deals, develop industry protocols, andcreate partnerships, platforms, alliances, and transactional layers.The entire world of the internet of things will make or breakthis, and its the companies that get it right that willmake a fortune and change the world.Its also increasingly less about the device and more about the cloud-based services that the device accesses.The best possible example of this is the Amazon Echo, a device thats little more than a speaker and an internet connection, running software thats invisible.Itstarted off in my house as a pointless gimmick. Yet each and every week, thanks to new commercial partnerships and tweaked algorithms in the cloud, Amazon Echo becomes better  from booking an Uber, to online banking, to readingFitbit Data. This device represents a new way that tech companies need to think: less about devices and more about ecosystems.These are huge, new areas to exploit. Apple needs to stop thinking aboutphysical technology and start usingthe knowledge of technology to create business plumbing for the future. Endless profits and a new worldawait.