Its happening. TechCrunch Include Office Hours are finally here! On October 15th, Andresseen Horowitz partners Scott Kupor and John OFarrell will join TechCrunch editors in providing advice and feedback to startups.Launched in 2014, Include is TechCrunchs diversity program, aimed at facilitating opportunities for underrepresented groups in tech to take their startups to the next level.Office hours are part of that effort. Once monthly, TechCrunch will work with VC partners to provide feedback and advice to early-stage companies. To be considered for a meeting in the October Session with A16Z, apply here by Monday, October 5, at noon PDT.Underrepresented groups in tech include but are not limited to Black, Latino, Native American, LGBTand female founders. For our first session, wed prefer teams that are based in the Bay Area as office hours will be held at the TechCrunch Office in San Francisco. Future office hours will be hosted in San Francisco as well as other startup hubs.Now, for a little about our co-hosts.Prior to joining Andressen, John OFarrell lead business development at Silver Spring Networks,a provider of smart grid products. He also lead business development at Opsware, an enterprise software company offering network device provisioning and configuration tools. OFarrell has more than 25 years of US and international experience in corporate/business development and operational roles in the Internet, enterprise software and telecommunications industries.Scott Kupor, previously worked as Vice President and General Manager of SaaSat Hewlett Packard. Kupor came to HP in 2007 as part of the Opsware acquisition, where he led of Customer Solutions. Over his time at the company, he provided Opsware with a mix of expertise in operations, financial management and strategic partnerships. Prior to Opsware, Kupor represented software companies in both financing and mergers and acquisitions transactions at Credit Suisse First Boston and Lehman Brothers.Were thrilled to have them join us. Alex Wilhelm from the TechCrunch team will also be offering office hours. In keeping with our theme, Wilhelm focuses on enterprise, finance and all things startup.If youre interested in attending, apply here by Monday, October 5 at noon PDT!