At 10 AM PT on Monday, March 9, Apple will be hosting an event at the Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco, and the Apple Watch will probably be the start of the show. The companys first smartwatch is sure to offer up a few surprises, even though weve already seen a lot of official information about the Apple Watch emerge since it was unveiled last September. Bookmark this page, and join us as we bring you live updates and photos below from inside the Apple event as soon as it kicks off.Cook thanks everyone for coming, invites them to the hands on area. Were all done here. Thanks for tuning in! Well be posting some stuff from the events hands on area soon enough.Cook now asking Apple employees to stand up for recognition.So, we got HBO Now on Apple TV, ResearchKit, a new MacBook with 12 Retina screen and the Apple Watch.Cook is now wrapping up Apple Watch discussion. Recapping event.Now were watching a new Apple Watch ad that shows off the bands, styles and interfaces.You can pre order Apple Watches beginning April 10th, which is when theyll be in retail stores for you to look at. Available April 24th in many countries.Cook says Edition Watches are going to be limited quantityNow were talking about Apple Watch Edition. Priced from $10,000, in select retail stores only.The Apple Watch steel is $549- $1049 depending on band for the 38MM. The Apple Watch steel 42MM runs $599-$1099 for the same.Were talking about the steel machining, alloying and the steel bands like the milanese and steel link.Now were talking about the steel model. Which Cook says has the widest variety of bands available. So different band selection for different tiers.The Apple Watch Sport is $349 for the 38MM and $399 for the 42MM model.Now were getting some erotic alloy footage.It uses an alloy of aluminum that is 60% stronger.Now were watching Jony describe the Apple Watch Sport.Apple Watch battery lasts 18 hours, device charges with a magnetic charger.Now were talking Apple Watch battery life.Theres a new Apple Watch app that lets you download apps, configure friends for notifications. Its included in iOS 8.2, available today.Lynch is demonstrating a security app that gives him a live feed of a security cam from his Watch. It allows him to open his garage door.Kevin Lynch: Photoshop veteran, is a terrible finger drawerer.Apple now demonstrating the Uber app.Lynch takes a call on his Watch. He emphasizes that the Watch uses WiFi, not just Bluetooth to communicate with your iPhone.Now Instagram on the Watch.Lynch is now demonstrating Apple Pay on the Apple Watch. Simple proximity, no touch necessary. A taptic feedback tap will tell you the transaction is done.That WeChat is the messaging app Apple chooses to demo on the Watch is telling. (Because China)Apple demoing WeChat replies, along with stickers.Now Lynch is demoing Siri. Weather channel weather delivered, must hurt for Yahoo to watch that.Lynch is now demonstrating a bunch of apps on the Watch. Twitter, American Airlines, etc.Now Kevin Lynch is out, talking about WatchKit and apps on the Watch.Now Cook is talking about Siri powering the Apple Watch, along with notifications.Ive been using my rubber band for runningthis is my chic one, says Turlington, showing off her leather with silver buckle.Turlington now out on Apples stage, being interviewed by Tim Cook. This is surprisingly much less awkward than Tim and Bono.#crewgoalsWere watching a video of Christy Turlington using the Apple Watch while running a half marathon in Africa.Apple gave a watch to Christy Turlington. Were now hearing about how she used it.Mondays just got worse: The Apple Watch will tell you how much you didnt move the week before.Now Cook is going over the Activity app on the Watch.You can read, flag and mark emails on your Apple Watch. You can make and receive calls on your watch as well.Cook is recapping some Apple Watch features.The Mickey watch face gets claps from the audience.Interesting that Cook is mirroring the iPhones its an x, y, and z announcement structure.The most advanced timepiece ever created.  Tim Cook on the Apple Watch.Cook is talking about the new Watch materials.Since what you wear is an expression of who you are, weve designed Apple Watch to appeal to a whole range ofpreferences.  Tim CookNow Cook turns to the Apple Watch.Its really awesome, I think youre really going to love it Tim Cook on the new MacBook.Wrapping up MacBook news now.The 13-inch MacBook Pro gets the Force Touch trackpad, 2x faster flash, 10 hours of battery life and faster processors.Apple is also updating the MacBook Air to thunderbolt 2 and faster I5 processors.The new MacBook is only $1,299 to start. Faster processor and 512GB for $1,599. Ships April 10th.Schiller makes a hashtag joke. Im not going to repeat it here.Jony is narrating this MacBook video. Its so relaxing I think I might nod off. Can I get this on a sleep sounds machine?How long until humans adapt to Apples standards and begin being born with only a single port?The new MacBook trackpad has tactile feedback which gives you response to touches.That single port thing is 1. Super agressive and a bit cool. 2. Going to cause a ton of growing pains. 3. Going to enrage people. 4. Will likely end up being standard within 2 years. Wireless tech is mature enough now.Worlds most energy-efficient notebook3 colors. Silver, Space Grey and Gold.The new MacBook also has 802.11c and Bluetooth 4.0.That single port supports USB, VGA, Power, DisplayPort and HDMI. Its the USB-C standard. New cable, of course.Schiller says that Apples new vision for computing is without wires. Theres only one port on the new MacBook.Apples new batteries are contoured sheets that let them fit 35% more battery in the new MacBook. Wireless Web browsing: 9 hours, 10 hours iTunes movie playback is what Apple claims.Apple cut a bunch of internal space and filled a ton of it with batteries.Intel CoreM 14nm process chip, Up to 1.3ghz, super charged to 2.9ghz. just 5 watts of power.Which is insane, for one, but also means that it runs completely silently and has a tiny logic board.This is theFirst fanless MacBook ever.Schiller is demonstrating that the Force Click can activate contextual actions that display things like calendar entries from a text field.The new Apple trackpad has an adjustable click feel, and has force click sensitivity for more tap context. (hard tap vs normal)Schiller says that this is the thinnest display on a MacBook ever. 30% less energy should mean improved battery life.The new MacBook has a 12-inch Retina display. 23041440. 3.3M pixels total.If you hit the edges of the keys, the whole key depresses, no more wobble, says Schiller.Schiller is nerding out hardcore on the new keys on the MacBook.Apple is going deep on keyboard technology called butterfly which replaces the scissor used in standard keyboards.The new MacBook is 2.1mm thick, 24% thinner than the MacBook Air. No visible antenna plastic ports on the exterior. Edge-to-edge keyboard.The new MacBook weighs 2lbIt appears to have very little margins around the edges. There is only one port, it looks to be new.Phill Schiler is up to talk about the new MacBook.Apple introduces a new MacBook. Cook is holding a gold one on stage.The video is showing off what appears to be a 12-inch Macbook Air.Were getting a new Mac. The video is playing now.Cook says Apple is reinventing the notebook.Tim Cook trolls the audience by showing a pic of the watch and other computers and then focuses on the Mac.Cook is back on stage says ResearchKit is going to transform research.Apple is Open Sourcing ResearchKit. The 5 apps demoed in the slides will launch today.Extended clapping from the Apple sections after this ResearchKit video.This is so far outside of the expertise of tech bloggers, but thats not going to stop them generating HOT HOT takes.Now were watching a video with researchers and Apple people talking about medical research apps and frameworks.Apple continuing to bang the privacy drum, reinforcing that Apple has no interest in user data because that doesnt contribute to its bottom line.You decide how your data is shared, Apple will not see your data. Jeff Williams.Williams: Apple will not see your data.This is going to raise a lot of questions about how this medical data is gathered, shared and compensated for.Apple worked with Massachusetts General to work on a diabetes app.Apple is squarely in the arena of medical technology that could come under FDA regulation.University of Rochester, Xuanwu Hospital and Sage Bionetworks worked with Apple to create a Parkinsons research app.Apple announces ResearchKit, for medical research.This is the first time Ive ever seen Jeff Williams in an Apple keynote.Williams is quoting subjective data and small sample sizes as issues in medical research.I know, Medical Research is not what you were expecting, says Williams.Now, Cook is talking about Health and Medical Research. Jeff Williams is out to chat about it.Now Cook is talking HomeKit and HealthKit, two relatively nascent efforts.40 models of cars are shipping with it.Every major car brand has committed to delivering Apples CarPlay, says Tim Cook.Cook says 700,000 locations now take Apple Pay. Including 40k vending machines.Cook says Customer Sat. Number one. Drink.Cook says Apples iPhone business grew at double the rate of the industry. Says iPhone was top selling smartphone in the world. Thats the first time ever, if youre counting.Yep. Apple has sold 700 million iPhones to date.Now were talking iPhone. Sales update?Apple TV will reinvent the way that you watch television, and this is just the beginning.Apple lowers the price of the Apple TV to $69.Over 25 million Apple TVs sold so far. But now were getting a price reduction.HBO Now coming to Apple TV was rumored, but an exclusive is incredibly strong. Thats going to sell a lot of Apple TVs. Which is really the point. This could be where Apple starts to leverage its slow burning plan for the Apple TV.Im not going to liveblog this trailer. But its suitably fire. Just trust me.New Game of Thrones trailer being shown to hype HBOs $14.99 standalone streaming service, launching in April on Apple TV.$14.99 per month, launching in April with the first month free for the premiere of Game of Thrones.The money involved here must be enormous. No subscription required.Wow. Apple gets exclusive on HBO Now on Apple TV.That hasnt happened a whole lot in recent memory, though others have talked and demoed at WWDC and other events in the past.Huh. An external CEO on the stage. Richard Plepler of HBO.Silicon Valley gets a shoutout on the Apple stage. As does Game of Thrones.Cook is hyping the HBO/Apple TV partnership.HBO.Apple TV kicks off the event in a bit of a curveball.120 million visitors to Apple Stores last year.Cook says Apple has 21 stores in China, with plans to get to 40 by mid next year.Cook is talking about the new design of the store in China. Cantilevered second story, open, bright is how he characterizes it.Tim Cook is now out on stage, looking dapper.Were rolling along showing people touching Apple stuff.Touch touch!Were starting off with a global tour of Apple Retail. New store in China being shown off now.Lights are coming down, here we go.Also, dont worry: Were on Dad Joke Watch 2015Angela is here as well.Jony Ive is nere, wearing a Rose Gold Apple Watch.Now weve got a Sam Smith remix. Feeling a bit emotional. I might hug Darrell.Ill Meerkat again post event. So if you missed out on my lovely visage have no fear.Were closing in. All the VIPs are in.Yo folks, hope you watched my Meerkat for the full story. All the cool kids did.