Apple, in its flush ofnew, bigger iPhone 6 handsets, has been selling record numbers of its older and newer model smartphones inthe last few months, and now its passed another significant milestone: it has managed to overtakesales of Android devices in the key market of the U.S. for the first time in three years.According to figures fromKantar Worldpanel ComTech, the market research division of WPP, in the key holiday sales quarter of Q4 2014, Apple sold more iPhones than all of the various Android OEMs put together, the first time that it has managed to do this since Q4 2012. But if you dont want to buy into any Apple hype, you might consider theres likely some margin forerror here iOS devices accounted for 47.7% of sales, while Android devices accounted for 47.6%.The more interestingquestion is whether this was a seasonal bump or the start of a bigger trend. On that front, Kantar is bullish on Apples overall lineup that includes older models, especially in comparison to the selection of Android devices available.In the US, Apple iOS overtook Android for the first time since this time in 2012, albeit by the slimmest 0.1% margin, writesCarolina Milanesi, chief of research at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. While the success of the iPhone 6 and 6Plus is unprecedented, this quarters performance also points to Apple having its strongest portfolio ever. Witha range of devicesavailableat different price points in both contract and pre-pay, Apple was able to take advantage of a weaker Android offeringat the premium end of the market. Worth also pointing out that Kantar was able to track Apples momentum several months ago from initial iPhone 6 sales, and saw it developing in subsequent weeks.Rounding out sales, Microsofts Windows Phone is facing a difficult time breaking into anything beyond a negligible place in the market. Across thebig five markets of Germany, UK, France, Italy and Spain, which was seen as the focus of great hope for the brand considering its Nokia legacy, Windows Phone declined one percentage point and took just under 9% of sales.Windows Phone, soon to be Windows 10, had seen some success across Europe in 2013 but continued to struggle in the latest period, recording minimal growth only in France and Germany, Kantar writes. That was repeated elsewhere.In the U.S., dropped by half a percentage point to 3.8% of all sales. In China it is now at 0.7% of all sales.Considering that it wasnt too long ago that Symbian was Chinas biggest smartphone platform, and before that the worlds, and that Windows Phone was supposed to bethe heir apparent to Symbian, its a remarkable failure to hold on to market position.But in that push of consolidation around two platforms, its not the only one to fall away. BlackBerry isnt even broken out by Kantar anymore.Within Androids sales, Samsung continued its pole position, with itsGalaxy S5 as the second-most popular smartphone after the iPhone.But overall Android saw declines in other big markets. In the big fiveEU markets, Androids overall share was down by 3.8 percentage points, the same decline as in the U.S. Notably, inthe UK, Apple saw its strongest gain against Android, picking up 13.1 percentage points while Android dropped 7.5 percentage points, withiPhone 6 becomingthe best-selling smartphone in Britain with 20% of allsmartphones sales (the Galaxy S5 came at a distant secondwith 8%).Nevertheless, across Europe Androidstill accounted for just over 66% of all sales through carriers and retail channels.In another key market, China, Apples iOS was actually the only platform that saw annual gains for the company. (And indeed, Apple also made a lot of noise in its quarterly earnings about how strong China is for it at the moment, with $16 billion in sales in the market.) It accounted for 21.5% of sales in the quarter to Androids 77%, fuelled by brandslike Xiaomi.In Urban China, Apple iOS grew share year-on-year at the expense of Android, writesTamsin Timpson, strategic insight director at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech Asia. While Xiaomi remained the bestselling brand in the latest period, Apple was able to close the gap slightly, growing its share to 21.5% from 19% last year. China, it should be noted, is still a market with room to grow, unlike the very saturated European and U.S. markets.Kantar notes that one-quarter of Chinese consumers who bought an iPhone in the past three months were acquiring their first smartphone, compared to 16.5% for the same period in 2013.Indeed, in the U.S. Kantar says that smartphone penetration is now59% and in Europe it is 67%. In contrast , Brazils penetration is only 35% and Mexicos is 37%. This is where brand loyalty continues to be an open game.As the opportunity to attract first-time smartphone buyers in developed economies diminishes, retaining loyal customers is becoming as important as winning them over from competing platforms, says Milanesi. She notes that Apples average customer loyalty in the U.S. and Europe is currentlya promising 87%, while Samsung continues to hold on to the strongest Android brand.