Apple has updated its Apple Watch support documentation, confirming that the device mayhave issues when worn by users who havewrist tattoos. The changes were added following a series of reports from new Apple Watch owners who foundthat their tattoos seemed to interfere with the smartwatchs ability to track their pulse or cause other problems. Apple now says that permanent and temporary changes to your skin, including the ink used in tattoos, can impact the heart rate sensors performance.In addition, the document clarifies, the ink, pattern and saturation of the tattoo can block the light from the sensor, making it difficult for Apple Watch wearers to get reliable readings. That is to say, those with darker tattoos that cover more of the skins surface may have more issues than those with lighter tattoos that are smaller in size.Theparagraph on tattooswas added to a page detailing how the Apple Watch heart rate sensor works, in a section that explains what sorts of factors could affect the sensors performance and a wearers ability to get a good reading. The Internet Archive, which keeps historical copies of websites, shows that an earlier version of this same page didnt include the note about tattoos, ahead of the Apple Watchs launch in April.That implies that Apple learned of the issues from user feedback, as Watch owners began to call in to report problems with their device. Some users even posted videos to YouTube demonstrating the problem first-hand, which were picked up by the media.Its not all that surprising that a wrist tattoo could impact the effectiveness of the Apple Watchs light sensor. The sensor allows an Apple Watch owner to wear the device looser on the wrist  snug but comfortable, says Apple  and still get a good reading. Explains Apple:Apple Watch uses green LED lights paired with lightsensitive photodiodes to detect the amount of blood flowing through your wrist at any given moment. When your heart beats, the blood flow in your wrist  and the green light absorption  is greater. Between beats, its less. By flashing its LED lights hundreds of times per second, Apple Watch can calculate the number of times the heart beats each minute  your heart rate.This type of technology has been known to cause problems in the past. For example, a reddit user several months ago noted that they had a problem getting a good reading using the Fitbit HR heart monitor. (A CNet report from 2014 also found that some of the then-current heart rate monitors on the market could also be thrown off by skin pigmentation.)Apple Watchs sensor is actually more advanced than the company has claimed, according to the teardown from iFixit posted in late April. The site saidthat Apples heart rate monitor is actually a plethysmographit looks and acts like a pulse oximeter, but Apple isnt claiming it can measure your blood oxygen level, iFixits analysisnoted. It suggested also that Apple wasnt advertising the functionality due to FDA regulations.Despitehaving this better sensor, it doesnt solve the problems associated with inks on the skin blocking readings.Apple recommends a workaround for those who experience these sorts of issues, saying that you can connect your Apple Watch wirelessly to external heart rate monitors, like Bluetooth chest straps. Of course, thats not quite as elegant a solution as simply wearing a watch, but at least it will give more serious athletes and otherquantified self enthusiasts an alternative means of gathering this data.