It seems Appleis continuing to use theApp Stores Top Charts section to promoteits own applications, by allowingapps like iMovie andthose from its iWork suite to appear in the Top 10 Free apps on users iPhones. This gives the appearance that Apples ownappsamong the most popular and most-downloaded in the U.S. App Store  even more popularthan apps like Facebook or Instagram, for example. But its unclear if this is actuallythe case.HasApple effectively turned its App Stores Top Charts section into a way to market its own software  stealing the top ranks from deserving developers in the process? Or are Apples own apps, in reality, the most popular apps in the store and Apple pulls them out of the Top Charts as a means of suppressing this information, in order togive the spots to third-party developers?Regardless of the answer, the apps seemingly magical appearance then disappearancefrom the Top Charts over the course of a day callsinto question the legitimacy and accuracy of Apples rankingssystem altogether.This is not a new problem, unfortunately. Theapp store optimization firm Sensor Tower began investigating this same behavior in November, noting that apps like Numbers, Pages, Keynote and others were suddenly appearing in the Top 10 in the App Stores Top Free Charts on the iPhone.At the time, however, it wasnt entirely clear if Apple was simply running a test of some sort, or ifits Top Charts were experiencing a bug. (Apple declined to comment on why the apps had appeared in the top rankings.)Yesterday, however, we spotted the same thing happening again  indicating that this is not a one-time bug, but more likely a manipulation of the Top Chart ranking data.In the Top 10 Free Apps on the iPhones App Store, the number 4 through number 8 positions  out of the blue  went to Apples own software applications. In order, the #4 through #8 spots were given to iMovie, Pages, Numbers, Keynote, and iTunes U. These apps were ranking higher than Facebook and Instagram for the day.Only a day later, and these same apps are not only gone from the Top 10, theyre gone from the Top 144 Free applications that Apple displays on the iPhones App Store. The exception isiTunes U, which continues to rank highly. (At the time of writing, its #6.)To put it more simply: its highly, highly unusual for an app to be ranked as one of the Top 10 Free apps in the U.S. App Store one day, then hours later drop out of the Top Charts altogether.Any other third-party app that demonstrated such a pattern would be accused of buying installs or somehow manipulating the rankings to its advantage. But Apple seems to believe that this same bizarrebehavior when it comes to its own apps wont be questioned?This is an ongoing problem, as it turns out. These appshave actually been popping in and out of the App Stores Top Charts for several days now.This occurs even though the apps themselves dont appear in some of the feeds that app store analytics firms use to access ranking data. In fact, Apples own apps are the only ones that sometimes appear in the Top Charts on users devices even though they dont appear in some of Apples Top Charts feeds. (App Annie, for whats its worth, shows these apps are consistently highly rankedBut are they really when that same data isnt reflected on end users devices? Who knows.)Another firm, appFigures, pulledtodays ranking data for the iWork apps and found that neither Pages, Numbers or Keynote wereranking for anything other than the Productivity category on iPhone.In fact, the Pages chart shows that Apples Microsoft Word competitor had actually dipped in its category over the past few days  which is not what you would expect from a supposedly Top 10 application. Was Apple attempting to stemthe apps decline? Or is Applesdata just a mess?(AppFigures explains that Apple has a variety of feeds available, each with its own set of issues. It uses the one that it believes represents the store most accurately, which also includes app bundles. Thats one reason its feeds could vary from those App Annie uses.)Apples Top Charts have always been something of a black box for developers. No one knows exactly how Apples algorithm works, other than ittakes into account some combination of downloads and velocity  or for Top Grossingapplications, revenue. That means that its possible that Apple is experimenting with changes to that algorithm that would look beyond these metrics. Perhaps its even testing it out with its own apps first.Its also worth pointing out that the apps in question are odd in and of themselves because they are listed as paid applications, but are actually available for free to most users. So they would make an appearance on the Free charts, if they became trending. Apple announced some time ago that iMovie, GarageBand, Pages, Numbers, Keynote and iTunes U would be free for those who activated or purchased a device on or after September 1, 2013 running iOS 8. Apple has since rolled out iOS 9, and the same deal still applies  the apps are free on iOS 9 devices activated on or after the same date.Apple wont explain how its algorithm works, of course, but when Apples own software appears one day at the very top of the App Store then disappears entirely the next day, you know that something that not entirely above-the-board is going on.