Apple put on a big event today in San Francisco to show off its new lineup of products and updates  from Apple Watch bandsto the iPad Pro to the new Apple TV. Apple released a bunch of new Watch bands, showing off a wide range of diverse colors. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the people, mostly from Apples executive team,who took the stage to announce them. In short, there was a lot of diversity missing from Apples event today.white guy #4 is talking about designing for pregnant women Justin Edmund (@jedmund) September 9, 2015By the end of the keynote, there were a total of a gazillion white men (13, according to my count), one Cuban American guy (Eddy Cue),one Asian man, who didnt actually say anything, and three white women. The first woman who took the stage was Irene Walsh of 3D4Medical, who gave a demo of the companys Essential Anatomy app using the Apple Pencil. The second woman on stage was Jen Folsefrom the Apple TV team, whogave a demo of the new Apple TV.The third was Gilt CEO Michelle Peluso, who demoed how the app works with the new Apple TV.Unfortunately, there were a grand total of ZERO black people on stage. Andthe event was problematic in other ways. At one point, Adobe Director of Design Eric Snowden forced a woman to smile via Photoshop, thus fixing her face with its new tool Adobe Fix.Image of a man making a woman smile, thus "fixing" her face. Bold, Apple. Bold. pic.twitter.com/dHVK6iomN8 Alex Griendling (@alexgriendling) September 9, 2015Though, this white dude from Adobe, VP of Products and Community Scott Belsky, seemed to find it funny.Last month, Apple announced its most recent diversity numbers, which showed slight progress in terms of hiring peopleother than white men. In the last year, 11 percent of Apples hires have been black, 13 percenthave been Hispanic and 19 percenthave been Asian.At the time, Apple CEO Tim Cook recognized that theres still a lot more work to be done.Dear Apple, you can and should do better next time. Kthx. Ive reached out to Apple for comment and will update this story if I hear back.