Apples definition of morality is on display this week with a couple of changes to its policies regarding App Store submissions.Apparently, Apples App Store is now okay with marijuana-themed applications, which were previously restricted, but its alsonow enforcing a policy requiringgame developers to remove images of guns from their App Store screenshots.The updatedpolicies with regard tomarijuana-related applications reflect the ongoing relaxing of U.S. laws around the drugs prohibition.For weeksnow, a number of marijuana advocacy groups and mobile developers, including social networking app MassRoots, have been petitioning Apple to change its stance on banning drug-themed applications from the App Store. Over 10,000 of MassRoots users also emailed Apple asking them tochange its position.On Friday, MassRoots reported that its previously banned app has been allowed back in the store, but with a new requirement.Going forward, the app has to perform a geolocation check that prevents users outside of authorized areasfrom accessing its network. Those permitted areasare the 23 U.S. states wheremarijuana use has been legalized.Wed like to thank the App Store for embracing the cannabis community and continuing to set an example as a socially-progressive institution, saidMassRoots team in on its company blog. We are excited to begin a new chapter with Apple in which we can work together to affect meaningful societal change. The company added, it hasa duty to show the world that cannabis consumption can be done in a safe and responsible manner in compliance with state laws and federal enforcement guidelines.This policy reversal makes sense, given that a blanket ban of marijuana apps across the country is no longer necessary,given the changes to state laws that make the drugs use legal whether for medicinal purposes, recreational use or both, as the case may be. And mobile apps can easily determine a persons location in order to determine whether or not they should be able to access an apps content.Meanwhile, another recent change to App Store policies impacts appdevelopers whose games include gun violence. While these apps are still allowed in the App Store (when properly rated), those who submit their apps with screenshots that depict the guns beingused are now being rejected.This change was first noticed last month when a developer by the name of OrangePixel had updated its game Gunslugs 2. Apple at the time rejected the game by saying that a screenshot showed violence against a human being. The game had originally been released a few weeks prior to the update, using the same screenshots, so the rejection seemed to indicate a change in App Store policy.However, it wasnt until the blogPocketGamerinvestigated the matter further that it could be determined that this was becoming a more widespread change,rather than a one-off situation. Or, perhaps, more accurately, it wasnt so much of a policy change as it was a decision on Apples part to properly enforce a policy that was already on the books.Thatrule, points out Instapaper developer Marco Arment, has been there all along, stating:3.6 Apps with App icons, screenshots, and previews that do not adhere to the 4+ age rating will be rejectedClearly, apps that depict gun violence would not meet this particular guideline.PocketGamer has now heard from a number ofApp Store developers who say theyve been asked to change their screenshots  in some cases where the character wasnt even holding a real gun. For instance, a developer called Team Chaos had to update a screenshot which showed a character holding an NES Zapper gun.Somedevelopers have responded byremoving guns from screenshots while others are blurring them out.Why do changes like this matter, you may ask? Well, Apples position as a major player in the mobile industry, and the creator of devices so many millions carry around with them all day, means its able to influence public opinion on topics like this. Where goes Apples moral stance, thereby goes the rest of the country, perhaps? These changes represent a more progressive view on U.S. drug policy, and a harsher stance on guns and violence.In addition, Applesapp marketplace is increasingly accessed by a number of younger users. Apple has been working to better cater to the needs of those kids and their parents, too, in part because of federal regulations around advertising to kids and collecting of personal information, but also because it holds itself responsible for providing a certain kindof experience  one that doesnt allow for mature or violent content to be placed in front of childrens eyes.