Apples head of legal has denied a long-standing rumor that it has collaboratedwith the Chinese government to provide its source code.Theres been plenty of speculation over this issue, since China is one of Apples most important markets and the countrys government has a reputation for its tough stance on tech companies  it has literally embedded police into the countrys top businesses, for example, and blocked Western servicesthat it sees as a threat to its regime.In the case of Apple, which saw revenue from China grow 14 percent year-on-year to reach a colossal$18.37 billion in Q1 2016, there is much ambiguity over its relationship with the state. Beijing somewhat cryptically praised Apple in January 2015 for allowing security checks the implications of which, as Quartz reported, were unclear.#Apple has agreed to accept China's security checks, 1st foreign firm to agree to rules of Cyberspace Admin of China pic.twitter.com/D49br48tm1 People's Daily,China (@PDChina) January 22, 2015Some speculated this was a case of Apple capitulating to the demands of the government in order to maintain its lucrative business in China, but, speaking under oath at a congressional hearing around encryption on Tuesday, Applegeneral counsel Bruce Sewell denied any such claim.Responding directly to an allegation raised by Indiana State Police CaptainCharles Cohen, Sewell admitted that China had asked for the code, but said that Apple declined.We have not provided source code to the Chinese government. We did not have a key 19 months ago that we threw away, Sewell said. Those allegations are without merit.Apple's Sewell: "We were asked by the Chinese government [for source code] and we refused." Says the request came within the last 2 years. Kate Conger (@kateconger) April 19, 2016Apple also stressed the point in court filings:Cohenclaimed to have cited media reports, rather than providing his own intel, but Sewells response is the highest profile (public) comment Apple has made on the issue to date. The phone makerhas previously kept quiet, perhaps to avoid the risk of spotlighting the sensitive issue with Chinese authorities, but there are other examples to suggest it is safeguarding user data in China with the same vigor that weve seen in the U.S.  around the San Bernardino iPhone, in particular.Apple movedto secure its data in China when it began encrypting data stored on Chinese soil for the first time in August 2014. And whileitsencryption features within iOS 8 have thwarted the U.S. governments efforts to access user data, they also makeChinese user data more secure. Perhaps related,Chinas government has been accused of carrying out malicious attacks to deceive iCloud users into providing access to their data and accounts.