Behold, oh tablet lovers, Apples latest gift to you  a new mini iPad: the iPad Mini 4! You can just see it, fourth from the right, in the new iPad line-up, pictured above, on a slide fromits ongoingHey Siri fall event today.Cupertino has broken with its own release traditions in announcing a new mini a little earlier than previous refreshes. The iPad Mini 3 dropped in October 2014, bringingApples biometric fingerprint reader, Touch ID, to the tablet, but not much else that was new  with the same internals as the 2013 model. So Applessmall slate was overdue an upgrade.That upgrade arrived today. Just. With Apple noting as an afterthought the arrival ofa thinner and more powerful iPad Mini, thatsable to take advantage of new multitasking features announced in iOS 9. The new iPad Mini 4 is priced at$399.Weve taken the power and performance of iPad Air 2 and built it into an even smaller Mini enclosure its just 0.65lbs, said Apple marketing chiefPhil Schiller, after lavishing most of his attention on the Minis big brother (the supersized iPad Pro).One reason for last years weak iPad Mini refresh was the fact Apple had justintroduced its first phablet-sized smartphone, the iPhone 6 Plus.A larger iPhone risks eroding the differentiating gapbetween iPhone and iPad so likelyexplains why Apple took its foot off the upgrade gas for its 7.9inch slatelast October to better encourage people to part with their cash for its shiny new 5.5inch palm-stretchersmartphone.But with the iPhone 6 Plus now well established in the market Apple is evidently less fussed aboutcannibalization between its small slate and big phones.Indeed, its also now dovetailing upgrades sothe year the iPad Mini gets a beefy upgrade coincides withthe iPhone Plus only getting the more iterative S upgrade (rather than the design step-change Apple typically gives its smartphonesevery two years). That, folks, is a streamlined refresh cycle.Apple isalso now pushing multitasking as a core differentiating feature for its iPads, with support for split-screen multitasking on the iPad added in iOS 9.The new beefier chip inside the iPad Mini 4 willsupport multitasking  giventhe iPad Air 2 already hadthe chops to handle it. So if you want a reason to buy one of Apples smaller iPadsandan iPhone that might just be enough of a motivator. At least, Apple hopes so.iPad sales growth has been declining for multiple quartersnow, within an also sluggish overall tablet market as consumers see little reason to regularly upgrade slates,so Apple is doing what it can to reinvigorate excitement for acategory it rekindled interest inwith the first iPad,back in 2010.Arguably the continued success  and screen size inflation  of smartphones remainsthe biggest challenge to tablets, at least in the consumer space. Why bother witha tablet when you can just packa phablet?Enterprise users may therefore hold the key for Apples future iPad growth hopes.Hencetoday it went large with theiPad Pro, which addsan even larger screen size (12.9 inches) into the iPad mix, with a 2,732 x 2,048 resolution display, and a stylus (called Apple Pencil)  clearly targeting design- and video-centric professionals. Health-related use-cases were also flagged up as a target, with an onstage demo putting a 3D anatomy scenario in the spotlight.There was more, too:a smart keyboard accessory for the uber slateyes a cover that folds out into a keyboard,  la Microsofts Surface tabletto further push the enterprise productivity angle.All of which makes it amply clear that Apple is sweating hard to burnish the businessappeal of itstablets. Hey, it even had Microsoft up onstage doing a Word demo on the iPad Pro And if that doesnt blow your enterprise socks off, I dont know what will.