Throughout history, the exploration of new frontiers has yielded economic bountiesin the forms of resources, living space, military advantage, and scientific research.Today, our new frontiers lie in space, which humanity must eventually colonize forminerals, energy and new homelands. As Carl Sagan observed, All civilizationsbecome either space-faring, or extinct.The commercialization of space began in 1965 with the deployment of the firstprivate communications satellite IntelSat1, only 4 years after US FCC CommissionerCraven saw no chance communications space satellites will be used to providebetter telephone, telegraph, television, or radio service inside the United States.Today, over 1,000 satellites operate in space, thanks to government-funded programs.While the Apollo Lunar Mission showed government research atits very best, aerospace technology since then has in many waysstagnated. Computing systems in orbit today resemble 60s eramainframes, and for the four decades following 1963, there wasno reduction in launch costs.Space-based imagery,communications, and travel are still largely inaccessible to thepublic. According to prominent aerospace engineer Burt Rutan,Space travel is the only technology that is more dangerousand more expensive now than it was in its first year.But all thats changing today, with the entry of aerospace startups.Venture-backedcompanies like SpaceX, Skybox, Planet Labs,and O3B disrupt theaerospace industry with faster, cheaper, better products. Unencumbered bygovernment bureaucracy, this new breed of enterprise can move quickly, attract thebest talent with equity ownership, and take calculated design risks that governmentcontractors cannot afford to.This new renaissance in SpaceTech coincides with multiple macro trends. Theinternet economy has filled the coffers of venture firms (like BVP) and evenentrepreneurs like Jeff Bezos, Richard Branson and Elon Musk, who now have theresources to tackle capital-intensive programs, meanwhile the financial crisis of 2008compelled many governments to divest internal space programs in favor of privatesector suppliers.After years of falling behind the curve on Moores Law,there is a huge dividend to harvest in computing performance, cost andSpaceTech ventures take advantage of modern tools like open source software, off the shelf electronics, rapid iteration cycles with continuous integration, and 3D-printing. They prioritize scalability and time to launch, thinking in terms ofnetworks rather than hosts.The early bounties will be in Low Earth Orbit, whereubiquitous constellations of cubesats with sensors and mesh networks enhance ourcommunications, agriculture, media, security, weather forecasting, global logistics,and geological sciences. Longer-term bounties will derive from space-based mining,and manned travel to moons and planets.During the next 50 years, in countless cycles, in countless entrepreneurialcompanies, this lets just go and do it mentality will help us finally get off the planetand irreversibly open the space frontier, said Dr. Peter H. Diamandis, chairman ofthe X-Prize Foundation. The capital and tools are finally being placed into the handsof those willing to risk, willing to fail, willing to follow the dreams.Editors Note:David Cowan is a partner atBessemer Venture Partners, he co-founded VeriSign, Good Technology and Defense.net, and co-authored several cybersecurity patents. He has also led the firms investments inSkybox Imaging.