Likely in hopes of boosting its holiday sales, Apple has surprised a number of iPhone owners by displayingunsolicited pop-up ads withinthe App Store application thatpromote the iPhone 6s. The ads are full-screen interstitials, and appear on iPhones that are older than the iPhone 6, according to reports. The ads text, meanwhile, reads iPhone 6s Ridiculously Powerful.Below an image of several, multi-colored iPhones, users are offered two choices: Learn More or Upgrade Now.In order to bypass the ad, usershave to hit the Skip button at the top to return to the App Store.The reaction to the ads, first spotted by the blog Cult of Mac, has not been pleasant so far. Most users who are sharing the ads on social media, or discussing the problem on Reddit, dont seem to think that Apple should be leveraging its own App Store application to deliver ads  especially those that are promoting its own products.Opened the App Store on an older model iPhone (5s) and got an ad to upgrade. Fuck that noise. God Dammit, Alex (@roessnakhan) December 11, 2015App Store app just showed me an interstitial ad encouraging me to upgrade my iPhone. Steve Madsen (@sjmadsen) December 11, 2015#apple @AppStore just gave me a full screen ad for a new iPhone, and so becomes native, non-removable adware. Not cool. Chris Wallace (@bitcollider_io) December 11, 2015I was browsing the App Store on my iPhone and an ad by Apple for the new iPhone 6S popped up. Really, Apple? Riccardo Mori (@morrick) December 11, 2015iPhone 6s pop-up ad. Ridiculously distasteful. pic.twitter.com/0RU3cE5O3L Tony Schwartz (@hallow_817) December 11, 2015Theres some irony here as well, given that Apple introduced ad blocking capabilities with the release of the iOS 9 operating system, which allows web users the ability to better control how much advertising theyre exposed to when using their mobile devices, plus block other content that slows down browsing. The move was heralded as another example of how Apple puts the  user experience first.Pushing pop-up ads, however, seems to contradict that earlier position.Its worth pointing out this is not the first time Apple has used the App Store app in this way. In the past, Apple experimented with using the App Stores search interface to push its own, editorialized search results for specific queries. For example, a search for Maps for a time wouldnt return Google Maps first, but instead pointed to Apples own collection of mapping apps. And a search for Music, also around the same time last year, didnt immediately return a list of streaming apps, but instead showed an ad for iTunes radio.In other words, Apple has already proventhat its not above leveraging the App Store apps reach in order to promote its products when it deems necessary. And for it to be again trying the same thing with regard to the iPhone hints that the previousefforts must have seen positive results.That being said,the new ad is a bit more aggressive than the others. While you could argue that, before, users who were searching for things like maps or music were possibly interested in what Apple had to offer on those fronts, the newer ads are being pushed to those who have simple launched the App Store app. They may or may not actually be in the market for a new device.Its unclear at this time how many users are being shown these ads, or if theyre only appearing in certain regions or markets. If Apple offers more information about the ads, well update.