AppNexus has become one of the big names in ad tech, but CEO Brian OKelley (pictured above) recalled that back in 2012, the company had to pull backin a major category  namely, video.While AppNexus built its business around display ads, OKelley said the company also offered basic video capabilities at the time. Unfortunately, due to its growth, in his view AppNexus was faced with a really hard decision  either be mediocre in both or make a choice.So OKelleydecided to focus on display, and while the company continued to serve existing video customers, it stopped taking on new ones. I just cant commit to making it as good as I want it to be, herecalled telling advertisers.Today, at the companys European Summit in London, AppNexus is announcing that its getting back into video, starting with an ad-buying product that will soon move out of closed beta. This has been in the works for the past 18 months or so, OKelley said, and it represents a complete overhaul of the companys existing technology.Four or five years ago, programmatic video was the Wild West, he said. But weve been testing this with a number of customers and were finally to a point where our video team can compete with entire companies.AppNexus says its buying tool will allow advertisers to target based on factors such as player size and whenthe ad getsplayed in the video, and it will provide data on things like completion rate and cost per completed view.Plus,AppNexus will provide access to 250 billion video impressions each month. The company helped pioneer the programmatic (i.e. automated and real-time) approach to advertising, and OKelley said, If you look at the programmatic buying of anything, one of the most important questions is scale.  If you spend money through the AppNexus platform youll be able to buy every single channel and it will be a fraction ofthe cost of other providers because of our overall scale.The company is also announcing that it has hired Eric Hoffert as its senior vice president of video technology. Hofferts had a long career in online video, includingexperience as CTO of JW Player and video architect at Spotify. He also co-founded the QuickTime video project while at Apple.Hoffert said there were three big reasons for joining AppNexus  its technological strength (he described AppNexus as a technologists dream), the opportunity to improve the video Internet and the fact that the company presents a full stack opportunity.Theres a real opportunity to reduce all of the intermediaries in that path and basically create less friction, he said.