There are Google (Alphabet) moonshots such as its project to hack death/extend human life. And then there is the stuff shooting quite a lot lower than the moon  aka projects which also seem spectacularly unlikely to ultimately deliver a successful product.To wit: Project Ara, Googles (Alphabets) modular smartphone concept. Its not orchestral enough to be a moonshot, but its crazy enough to exist far from the Nexus smartphone roadmap. Lets call it Alphabet jazz.The Project Ara moodmusic has been sounding its modular tune from Mountain View for several yearsnow. Googlegot involved inthe project viaMotorolaback in 2012,retaining the Ara team when it offloaded Motorola Mobilityto Lenovo. Itproduced Ara reference designs for developersin April 2014, and showed off a working prototype at its I/O conference this May snapping a photo of the audiencewitha removable camera module.First public photo from our ARA phone at #io15. Next app install will be @googlephotos to fix lighting. #ProjectAra pic.twitter.com/EvFCQbbHo8 Project Ara (@ProjectAra) May 29, 2015But the latest Ara-shaped notes emanating from Mountain View are sad trombones: The team has revealed that a planned pilot of the tech this year has been delayed.A spree of tweets in the last few days  the first from the Ara team since May  reveals a 2015 market pilot in Puerto Rico is off. And a pilot will now apparently take place next year (#yeswearelate)  somewhere in the U.S (market pilot re-reouterecalculating).The team blames lots of iterations for the delay to the pilot:The excuse of lots of iterations hardly bodes well for shipping a modular smartphone in human (rather than galactic) timescales. Modular = lots of interchangeable parts. Which means thatlots (and lots) of iterations are going to bepar for the course  stretching and stretching dev time like a piece of space junk approaching ablackhole.And so the Ara in development tune looks set to sound on. And on.At least until/unless Alphabet maestro Larry Page calls timeBut then, arguably, the principal point with such Alphabet Moodmusic projects is not really about delivering a viable commercial product at all.Its about hitting the right notes to project a certain image onto the underlyingad business  whichhelps make Google (Alphabet)appear more, well, Googley. And less, er, data-sucking-vampire-squid-y. Arguably youcould say the same for Googles Alphabet brandrejiggery too.Theres another M word for this; its called marketing.In that respect, although Ara remains vapourware, the project continues to deliverfor Page and co  with its colorfulpromises of user customizable hardware and trivial reuse/recycling of smartphone parts.Delayed dreams remain dreams, after all, and so the moodmusic plays onHasta el futuroAra!Update:Although Googles press office failed to respond to questions about why Ara has been delayed, the projects team has now tweeted out areason  and its apparently down to the planned electromagnetic connections for holding modules together not being fit for purpose.Aka the prototype splinters into its component pieces if dropped. Ergo, the Ara team is having a rethink on how to attach/detach modules*Gets popcorn*