
Yee Lee is a serial entrepreneur and the founder and CEO of Vouch Financial. It seems like there are a lot of folks in the popular media talking about the future of financial services these days. In particular, the growing competitionbanksface from a new crop of technology companies who are meticulously chipping away at their business by unbundling many of their bread-and-butterbankingservices.Some writers breathlessly proclaim that unbundling spells demise for bigbanks. I dont think so. The unbundling of financial services is not going to drivebanksout of business. Bankshave massive structural investments (literally, many billions of dollars of accumulated balance sheets) and positional advantage gained from decades of relationship-building with regulatory and law-making bodies. Those assets wont evaporate overnight, even if abankloses control over the primary user interface with customers through unbundling.If you take a step back and compare across industries, youll find other sectors where huge entrenched companies have made large investments in infrastructure and built regulatory expertise. Large telecom networks like Verizon and AT&T have positional advantage because theyve laid down millions ofthe miles of copper wire and built the hundreds of thousands of cell towers that make modern communications possible. Theyllberelevant and important players in the U.S. economy for a long time. However, theyve lost market power because they are no longer in control of the primary user interface to American consumers  theyve lost it to technology giants like Apple and Google.Carriers used to play a dominant role in telecommunications because they controlled the infrastructure (copper wires and cell towers), customer devices (phone handsets), the operating system (dial tone) and the popular applications (phone dialer and text messages). The unbundling of telecommunication infrastructure, devices, OS and apps has led to an all-out power struggle for primary relationship with the consumer.Between popular application publishers like Facebook, OS vendors like Google and computing equipment companies like Apple, there has never been more choices for consumers. While its not yet clear who exactly will win this battle in the end, it probably wontbeAT&T or Verizon, because theyve lost control of all the layers above infrastructure  the telcos no longer control which devices you can use on a given network, the operating system that devices run nor the apps.Apples newly announced Upgrade program to buy the latest iPhones from Apple directly is the latest salvo in this battle. With this program, consumers can forgo purchasing their phones through telecom network providers and buy directly from the manufacturer, squarely casting carriers into the role of dumbpipes. Apple is smartly asserting influence over multiple layers in the communications stack: devices (iPhones and iPads), operating system (iOS) and apps (iMessage, FaceTime, PhotoStream, etc.). By doing so, theyre gaining the power to shape how telecommunications services evolve.We can look at the last couple decades of competition in the telecommunications industry as an analogy to predict where the financial services industry is headed in the United States. The big U.S.bankshave historically dominated financial services because they controlled or influenced infrastructure (ACH networks,bankbranches, regulatory structure), customer hardware (ATM machines, checkbooks), operating systems (rules and procedures for check clearing and underwriting loans) and financial applications (cash management, paying bills, depositing checks, wire transfers, car loans, mortgages, etc.).Now, just as with telecommunications, allthe layers above infrastructure are up for grabs. Thats what unbundling means for banks. Bankslose power when consumers are no longer reliant on an ATM machine to move money, or when consumers are able togeta loan through a non-bankonline lender or when a personal finance app becomes the primary interface for a consumer to manage their money.The telcos hate the term dumbpipes  and for good reason. They arebeingrelegated to the common conduits through which meaningful communications and commerce take place. But telcos wont go away overnight because theres still a lot of value in the physical network infrastructure and cell towerstheybuilt through decades of investment.Similarly, unbundledbankswont go away overnight; theres still a lot of value in the intra-bankmoney transfer networks and the depository role thatbanksare uniquely allowed to play in the U.S. economy. However, over time, traditionalbanksthat fail to dramatically reinvent themselves for modern consumers will find themselves playing the role of a simple inbox for depository funds andpipesthat move the money to other financial services providers who will increasingly influence consumers financial lives.