Arielle Zuckerberg, the youngest sister of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is joiningKleiner Perkins Caufield &Byers next monthin a bid by the firmto injectyouth and diversity into itsline-up of partners.TechCrunch understands from sources near the VC firm that Zuckerberg, a former Googler whois currently aproduct manager with phone management app firmHumin, will starther new role asassociate partner for Kleiner Perkins on October 19. (Kleiner Perkins declined to comment when we contacted the company.) Our source tells us that the26-year-old  the youngest of the four Zuckerberg siblings  is being brought on as personable partner to interface with and relate to early-stage startups forthe firms growth fund.Thats just one side of the new hire. Zuckerberg is one of three new arrivals aimed at bringing onyounger and, most importantly, more diverse additions. Speaking on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt San Franciscotoday, Kleiner Perkinsgeneral partnerJohn Doerr announcedtwo new partners  Swati Mylavarapu, formerly of Square, and Muzzammil Zaveri, formerly of Tencent  while hinting at another unnamed hire joining soon  thatsZuckerberg.I made it really clear even at Kleiner Perkins, where Im deeply committed to diversity, we have done more and should do more to get to a 50/50 world where everyone can make a difference. We can be better, Doerrtold interviewer Colleen Taylor.Despite the potential to be overshadowed by big brotherMark Zuckerberg and elder sister Randi,Arielle has developed areputation for beingreluctant to cash in on her nameand she appears acutely aware of diversity issues.I dont know how to solve mens problems and I think theres a lot of evidence that men dont know how to solve womens problems, she told the New York Post last year. Its not just women.Companies that dont have diverse employees are putting themselves at a disadvantage.Hiring a young female with a growing reputation is a major win for Kleiner Perkins, particularly given the companys high-profile court case with Ellen Pao, whofiled a lawsuit accusing the firmofgender discrimination. Though the jury ruled against Pao on all four of her claims, the affair was hugely damagingfor the reputation of the firm, which counts numerous other women among its ranks, including Mary Meeker and Beth Seidenberg.Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers has seemingly been in repair mode since.In June, itcarved out $4 million for a new fund, dubbed KPCB Edge, in an effort to regain its status as a go-to venture capital firm for young entrepreneurs, including by bringing in threenewer and younger employees:Anjney Midha, 23; Ruby Lee, 23; and Roneil Rumburg, 22.But a reported deal to acquire Social+Capital to bolt on a fresher approach to venture investing fell apart earlier this year.In July, speaking at a conference, Doerr went as far as saying of the venture industry more broadly:We collectively are pathetic on the issue. Six percent of venture capitalists are femalethats just dumb.Gender and equality issuesarent the only areas where Kleiner Perkins has been challenged. The firm has struggled for the kind of success that rivalfirms have enjoyed. For example, it jumped into investments like Twitter,Facebook and, reportedly, Snapchat, later than some of its longtime peers. Other investments, including Zynga and Quirky (which just filed for bankruptcy), have meanwhileproduced disappointing results.