A company calledArmorText, which is developing a secure messaging client for the enterprise designed to meet the needs of those in regulated markets, has just raisednearly $2 million in outside funding. The round, which is still ongoing, may top that number when it fully closes. Leading the round for the Washington D.C.-based startup was the micro fund Cervin Ventures.Other private investors also participated.ArmorText grew out of an earlier product from a company thencalledGryphn, which had been working on a Snapchat-like messaging app that allowed usersto share disappearing messages, photos and videos. But to differentiate itself from the growing number of ephemeral messaging apps in the consumer space, the company began to focus on building out encryption technologies that would allow its users to share more private and personal data, like passwords, PIN codes or other business information.Today, one of the features thatmakes ArmorText stand out versus a number of consumer-grade private messaging apps is that it encrypts the messages on the device itself, not in the cloud. Meanwhile, the appstill offers the appearance of ephemeral messaging, as messages and other content thats being sent out from the phone will disappear based on the timer settings the user specifies, similar to Snapchat.However, companies themselves can still retrieve these messages their employees send when need be, using ArmorTexts auditing technology.In addition, toenhance its products capabilities, ArmorTextacquired another mobile startupknown asUppidylast spring, which was building a toolset that allowed users tosecurely back up SMS, photos and videos from their smartphones. That backuptechnology has since been integrated into ArmorTexts own product, and today, the ability for I.T. admins to audit the messages employees send  whether encrypted or standard SMS  is now one of the appsbiggest draws.To what extent ArmorText backs up SMS and other chat sessions on an end users phone is typicallypolicy-driven, it should be noted. In regulated industries where employees are provided phones by the business, they may be told that all their texts are backed up for compliance purposes from their date of hire onward, for example.Today the ArmorText app has dozens of major enterprise clients and moresmaller businesses using its service, which is aimed at regulated markets, including finance and healthcare, as well as the publicsector. Some of its customers include hospitals, traders and even police departments. The system can be usedeither as on-premise solution or as a cloud service, and is roughly $10 per device per month.To integrate Uppidy into itscore product as well as to continue to support new versions of iOS and Android, ArmorText needed to hire more engineers  and thats largely what the funding is going towards today, as well. The company is also hiring more sales staff to reach larger customers.ArmorText is setting up offices in the Bay Area, in addition to its D.C. location. Because of D.C.s proximity to many in the companys potential customer base  public sector, health care, and finance  the team will likely remain split between the coasts going forward.