
Christoffer O. Herns is vice president of Strategy, Innovation and Analysis at Sparebank 1 Group, Norways second-largest financial institution.I have been a huge science fiction fanas long as I can remember, and a recurring theme in both science fiction literature and movies is the creation of artificial intelligence. However,the subject is becoming increasingly more science and less fiction. One of theearliest references to a robot, or an automaton, is in The Iliad,written by Homer some time around 700 B.C. More recent examples includeIsaac AsimovsThree Laws of Robotics, written all the way back in 1942; Arthur C. Clarkes AI gone rogue in2001: A Space Odyssey; and the persecution of androids in Philip K. DicksDo Androids Dream of Electric Sheep(better known as the movie Blade Runner). As well as depictions of AI in popular fiction through the iconic droidsR2-D2andC-3POfrom Star Wars,Datafrom Star Trek and many more, the idea of creating artificial intelligence never ceases to amaze us.This is a subject where my child-like curiosity and interest exceeds my knowledge by a long shot, but recent development in AI and robotics both appeal to my inner child as well as my adult sense of skepticism.Along with the vast possibilities related to the creation of artificial intelligence, there are also numerous challenges. In recent news, Stephen Hawking, Elon Muskand more than 1,000 AI and robotics researchers signed an open letterissuing a warning regarding the use of AI in weapons development.However, if we exclude theannouncedrobot apocalypsefor now, there are several other subjects to take into consideration.Experts predict that robots will replace humans inone-third of todays traditional professions by 2025, and according toJeremy Rifkin,this will be theeclipse of capitalism as we know it. Machines will beself-replicating and able to operate as a hive mindwithout any human interaction, leading to a society where production is limited to the cost of raw materials.What happensif anAI machine commits a crime? Who is responsible for the actions taken? This may sound like science fiction,but it has already happened. A Swiss art group created an automated shopping robot with the purpose of committing randomDarknetpurchases. The robot managed to purchase several items, including aHungarian passport and some Ecstasy pills, before it was arrested by Swiss police. The aftermath resulted in no charges against the robot nor theartists behind the robot.How should anAImachine be regulated when it is acting on its own,outside the control of humans? There have already been several regulatory problemsidentified for controlling and regulating artificial intelligence. If an AI being were to have legal responsibility for its actions, then it should have a physical, legal anddigital identitysimilar to a human being, as well.If an AI being is given the same legal responsibilities as a human, shouldnt it also have the same legal rights as a human? It is likelythat anAI machine that hasachieved self-awarenesswould demand equal rightsinstead of turning tokillingall humans. If an AI being were granted full civil rights, would that also include theright to reproduce? Because a robot recently passed a self-awareness test previously believed that only humans could solve, the need to answer these questions may be closer than we think.When addressingartificial intelligence, we are often limited to our traditional perception of the world, where we envision an AI machine as an android. This is not necessarily the case; how would we asses a self-aware and omnipresent digital intelligent being residing on a distributed computing network?Artificial intelligence raises a series of questions acrosssocial, economic, political, technological, legal, ethicalandphilosophical issues. To untangle the uncertainties, possibilities and potential perils related to artificial intelligence, there is a need to asses and understand the correlation between these fields. We should expect machinesto continue totake us by surprise with great frequency.