Live in any major city, be it London, Paris, Los Angeles or Shanghai, and youll be all tooaware that air pollution is a huge and growing problem. At the same time, indoor air quality can suffer because of attemptsto reduce buildings energy consumption tomake themless pollutive to the outdoor environment  by, for example, applyinghigh-grade insulation and recirculating indoor air to reduce heat loss/lowerair conditioning systems energy needs. Verywell sealed buildings can lead to elevated CO2 levels as more people gather indoors. So how to square thiscircle?Step forward Artveoli, a biotech startup thats building an air purifying device that aims to convertcarbon dioxide into oxygenin indoor environments, such as offices and homes, by harnessing the photosynthetic properties of algae. Its like having trees inside buildings, is Artveoliselevator pitch. The startup isofficially launching onstageat TechCrunch Disrupt New York, opening registrationsfor people to sign up for updates.The aim is to start manufacturing its first air purifying product this year, says co-founder Alina Adams  with a view to shipping the device sometime in 2017.Adams has a background in microfluidics, the core technology which its applying to increase the efficiency of the algae to enable a single unit to have an impact on the room where it is placed  having worked at the Stanford Microfluidics Foundry, along with her co-founder.Microfluidics refers toa field of research that looks at how fluids behave differently at the microscale and how those differences can be exploited for particular use-cases. Its a new type of technology that makes biochemical processes much easier, faster, its easier to control and work with the different, complex biological systems, explains Adams.I was thinking, we have plants that make fresh air so how can we put lots and lots of plants inside buildings? she adds, discussing how theidea for the business was born. This was an ah-ha moment  oknobody is actually using microfluidics devices to grow photosynthetic type of cells to make fresh air.Startup Battlefield: Making Fresh Air with ArtVeoli at #TCDisrupt https://t.co/eAdseo9WsR TechCrunch (@TechCrunch) May 9, 2016An existing technology  photobioreactors  uses a light source to cultivate phototropic microorganisms, such as algae,generating biomass from light and carbon dioxide. But these unitstend to need to be very large in orderto generate alarge amount of biomass. Artveolis founders mental leap was to wonder whether they could grow the same type of phototropic cells on the micro-scale  so very, very densely packed, and thus able to pump out more oxygen.Were working with small channels and small volumes, so were working with chips that are easier to manipulate small volume type of liquids. High density means were using cell concentrations inside our system that are much, much more significant than those that youd find even in traditional bioreactors.So we have these nature-type of systems inside that metabolically produces oxygen and removes carbon dioxide Light powers the system. And because we have this large surface area and high density thats how were able to achieve significantly higher outputs for carbon dioxide absorption and oxygen production than traditional trees.AdamssaysNASAhas already looked at using the same type of algae itis putting inside its microfluidic high-density photobioreactors to powerclosed, self-sustaining systems to produce oxygen for astronauts on long space missions. However, the problem they ran into was making those systems efficient enough.Theyre not able to get this efficiency because theyre using larger volumes. Thats where microfluidic technology eliminates that problem. With microfluidic technology we have more control and we have the higher efficiency, so they can work with higher densities, she adds.Were actually talking to DARPA  they are interested in potential future applications for this technology  because we are able to produce oxygen and remove carbon dioxide in closed spaces. Which is essential if youre limited on the air supply from outside.Artveolis device is also a closed system (which lowers the risk of contamination), with the algae contained inside transparent, microfluidic plastic chips and the necessary nutrients (plus light, via an LED backlit panel) fed to them via a built-in control system. This allows for control of cell density (and therefore unit efficiency), including by controlling the rate of introduction of new algae, based on the growth rates of the existing population.The particular microalgae being used by Artveoli has been selected because it has a high photosynthetic efficiency, says Adams.We introduce the right proportions of media  thats part of the control that we have, so we can have a very stable system.The algae wont live forever, of course, even given ideal conditions provided for them in a closed system, so there is a need to remove waste (i.e. dead) algae from the units by replacing filters in the units and also replenishing with fresh microalgaeover time. But the aim is to make thisprocess very simple similar to putting a new ink cartridge in a printer, says Adams.We remove the excess biomass, or bioproduct waste, which is basically dead algae, she says. And introducing  similar to printer cartridge models  you put in new media.Theres no periods whenever theres no algae in the system so its continuously recirculating and introducing new media and removing the excess and dead cells/debris out with the cartridges.These (biodegradable)cartridges will need to be replaced three to four times per year, providing for a recurring revenue stream for the business. The cost of the cartridges will be similar to the price of new filters for existing air purifying machines, according toAdams.The units themselves will be custom-built and installedfor commercial customers, so willvary in size and price  although Adams says, again, pricing will be in the ballpark of existing air purifier devices, so from a few hundred dollars to a few thousand.Selling to the commercial marketisthe startups first push, with the clearest use-case being offices where lots of people gather for long periods of time, reckonsAdams. But theteam also intends to build a product for the consumer market down the line, although decisions about form factorand how to design these units are yet to be made.The number of units that a buyer might need will depend on building occupancy, but Adams says the goal is to build systems that can create enough oxygen for one person, so in a house with four occupants youd need four systems. (Albeit, the more custom configurations its envisaging creating for commercial buyers might change those ratios, depending on the size of individual units.)On the design front, Artveoli ispartnering with designers to be able to offer buyers a printed cover for the units, in addition to potentially offering othercover options  even such as a touchscreen or a whiteboard, which would obviously be useful in an office environment. The units will also contain embedded Wi-Fi sensors so gas exchange levelscan be monitored.The units themselves resemble flat-screen TV panels in terms of form factor at this point, according to Adams, but she says the team is also researching alternative multi-layered configurations to be able to build devices with other form factors in the future  such as the box-shaped units typical of existingair purifier products, so it could potentially be portable.Why the name Artveoli? Alveoli is the name of the tinyair sacs clustered in bunches inside the lungswhere thegas exchange ofoxygen and carbon dioxide takes place. The density of alveoli in the lungs providesa very large surface area, allowing for the body to get enough oxygen into the blood to sustain life.Its a similar density principle behind Artveolis microfluidics technology, whichmaximizes the surface to volume ratio.Artveoli is also, of course, a play on words  with the Art in the title referring to the idea ofincorporating designers works onto the front of the panel so the unit can be a feature in and of itself, if buyers so wish.Artveoli incorporated last September, after starting out doing tests and building prototypes in a garage. They have been bootstrapping the first stage of development  including building their first system  but are now looking to raise funding to pay for manufacturingunits to take to market. Adams says the amount theyre aiming to raise will depend on how much interest they see via sign-ups, but their initial aimis to raisebetween $3 million and $5 million at this stage of the business.The long-term vision is not carbon dioxide consuming devices that are hung on walls or even moved around different rooms, but ratherwalls that are themselves breathing out oxygen with the technology embedded directly into buildings.However, thats going to require a lot more work to bring to market, looping in architects and mechanical engineers, and needing to comply with standards/buildings regulations. Hence, Artveoli is taking a device-based (and modular/custom) approach with their first line of hardware.On the functionality level it will be more efficient to have it embedded, because that way we can have it more controlled and for the replacement of cartridges and filters theres more opportunities to make it a bit more efficient, as part of the building. But to be honest, its at least five years til we get to somethingbecause itll have a bunch of product iterations. It also depends on working with architects and designers.Another future hope is to integrate the technology with Nest smart home devices so they could be used to control the units. Our system is smart in itself but it would be good to integrate it with an existing network of appliances and devices so they could control that as well, adds Adams.If youre wondering if microalgae-based oxygen production air purifiers have an off switch, the answer is yes  kind of. Switchingthe LED lights off will power the unit down, however, you cant keep the lights off indefinitely or the algae will die. Adams says the microorganismswould probably manage for a fewweeks without light  so just enough time for a family vacation.Judges Q&AQ: This machine behind you, you put art on top of it but behind it theres an air filter?A: Its not actually a filter  its a biological entity.Q: So how many square feet does one of those do? And what are you selling that for and who are you selling it to?A: The typical example of a conference room, 12 x 12, we need about one system. If occupancy is higher  lets say 4-6 people  you need two units.Q: What does it sell for?A: Initially a couple of thousands but with large-scale manufacturing well bring the cost down.Q: Initially you are selling to who?A: To commercial segments. Were selling it directly as well as partnering with HVACs because they already have sales channels.Q: This takes in CO2 and emits oxygen but it doesnt do particle removing of contaminants?A: At this point it doesnt, but we can probably do that later. But nothing in the market does this.Q: Can you tell us a bit about what the demand is for this?A:  Theres a huge new trend of making buildings healthier, not just green. Green means saving energy, healthy means providing a healthy environment The new trend is not only making buildings efficient but making them healthy. By reducing the air that you bring in from outside you are keeping air in  and all this ties in with the demand-control ventilation. Because installing our systems locally you dont have to bring the air so much over all the building, you can take care of where the CO2 levels get elevated.Q: But these buildings are already being built they are doing it without these machines, it has to do with the way the building is built. Theyre bringing in fresh air. Its completely internal. Theyre doing it just in terms of the actual building of the buildingA: In addition to providing fresh air were actually saving energy because our system doesnt use so much energy to bring air from outside.Judge: Neither do these buildings.Q: Is it just all about the balance of oxygen to CO2? Ive heard in different environments of people pushing oxygen into different environments and I dont know if that produces a comparable effect?A: There are two things. CO2 concentrations high is worse than lack of oxygen because we dont need as much oxygen as is in the room. So oxygenators  thats the machines that inject the oxygen they might inject some oxygen to keep people awake and alert but the core problem is actually CO2. Thats what makes us sick, thats what makes us feel tired.Q: As you think about trying to create demand, educating the public and these commercial folks how are you going to overcome that challenge? Because it sounds like an awesome technology, Im sure its highly defensible but youve got to convince people that the CO2 is the problem. How do you execute that campaign?A: Its a great point. Awareness is number one thing. Not everyones aware, oh I feel sick and the airs feeling stuffy but that means CO2 is elevated. So dealing with buildings the great point is that we have a support from a lot of research that other companies do so we dont have to educate so much to say ok CO2 is bad for you. We can refer to the studies. For example, a Harvard study that recently just published this paper on CO2 and cognitive performance so relying on the knowledge and the foundation that industry has, working with them, partnering, we can show the benefits and the value of providing our product to the customer.