Editors note: Sharon Wagner isthe founder and CEO of Cloudyn, a leading provider of cloud analytics and optimization tools for multi-cloud deployments. He is a leading expert and key patent holder in SLA technologies andpreviously worked at CA Technologies within its cloud-connected enterprise business unit.A lot can happen in a year, and in the world ofcloudcomputing, 2014 was a breakout one. Cloudadoption finally experienced a tornado of demand that swept up large enterprises en masse. Yet as businesses move services to thecloudand increasingly depend on third-party vendors, important questions should be answered around who is responsible for managing these services and how service quality should be measured.Themainobjective of a Service Level Agreement (SLA) is to clearly define relationships andsetexpectations for adequate service levels between the buyer and the seller. In the case of thecloud, this would be thecloudprovider and thecloudconsumer. A traditional SLA is a rigid and custom contract with complicated legalese focused around operationalmetricsprovided by IT and using IT internal resources.AcloudSLA is a different animal mainly becausecloudcustomers leverage thecloudas an extension of their internal IT: They dont own the infrastructure, they dont maintain it, and they cant control its provisioning or maintenance procedures. Theclouds shared responsibility model splits the responsibility between thecloudprovider and thecloudcustomer: The customer is responsible for the application SLA and the provider is responsible for the infrastructure SLA.Cloudproviders and customers typically zero in on availability that is measured as the time a system is accessible and is expressed as a ratio between actual uptime and expected uptime presented in a percentage. Note that expected uptime is subject for discussion: expected uptime may or may not include scheduled maintenance hours, reduction of force major hours, and more.Assuming no force major situations or scheduled maintenance hours, in a 365 x 24 year, five nines (99.999 percent) represent five minutes of downtime and four 9s (99.99 percent) represent about 50 minutes. Does it really matter?Given availability as an indicator for quality of service, rest assured thatcloudvendors continue to invest in additional infrastructure to support a growing number of customers and enterprises. Therefore, perhaps a better way to measurecloudavailability would be to apply qualitativemetrics, such as mean time to repair (MTTR) and the mean time between failures (MTBF).Undeniably, availability is an important metric. However, good service in thecloudgoes far beyond availability. For enterprise-level companies seeking to monitor or enforce the transit of their workload from on-premise to the publiccloud, we believe that anewstandard isneededthat measures a group of categories.While mostcloudvendors focus on availability and provide credits based on availability, acloudSLA should reflect multiple service level objectives (SLO) and various aspects of the provided service. SLOs should be categorized and measured as follows:Since no standard SLA is used acrosscloudproviders, those providers redefining and building thesenewsetof SLO standards will be the ones to help enterprises accelerate the onboarding of their critical applications to thecloud.Many businesses blindly take for granted that they will be protected by an SLA. While the SLA is used to settle any dispute between a provider and a customer, in the case of infrastructure failure, the SLA cannot be considered as protection. Customers who provide their users with service based on a publiccloudinfrastructure should defineSLAsend-to-end.Lets take the example of acloudcustomer who provides a CRM platform to their users and uses servicesof one of the publiccloudproviders. While thecloudprovider is responsible for the infrastructure, the platform availability is managed by the client. The end-to-end CRM SLA will includemetricssuch as service availability. This will be a combined business metric that includes thecloudinfrastructure availability SLO and the CRM application availability SLO. After all, the end user is not interested in the shared responsibility model; they just want to ensure service availability.Until now,SLAshave been unregulated in what has been a sellers market, with thecloudservice providers calling all the shots. However, the pendulum has started shifting slowly in favor of the buyers, ultimately making it better for businesses.The evolution of thesenewstandards will mirror what happened in the IT market. In the IT world, the Information Technology Infrastructure Library became the best-known standard after organizations started independently creating their own IT management practices. As enterprises demandmetricsfromcloudproviders, they will eventually become mandatory requirements with credits and penalties for violations. We expect such a shift to occur over the next 12 months.Since the Edward Snowden disclosures of 2013, there has been increasing pressure on governments and technology companies to provide more transparency. Europe has been one of the strongest supporters for change. In June of last year, Europe took a leap forward and began establishingcloudSLA standardization. NIST (National Institute of Standard and Technology, US Department of Commerce) provides further SLA guidelines for vendors.CloudSLAswill be standardized, one way or the other. Its really just a function of time. After all, thecloudis ubiquitous and doesnt have borders.