The world of venture capital has long been cloaked in understated reticence and secrecy. Thats especially been true for the traditional top tier Sand Hill Road firms, such as Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers. After all, a big benefit of being in the private market is, well, the privacy. Deals can be done with handshakes. Salaries and bonuses can be confidential. Business strategies can be hashed out over drinks and dinners, and stay out of the spotlight forever. Off the record is the name of the game.That is, unless youre subpoenaed by court. Then everything is out in the open: your emails bashing coworkers and planning your all-male ski trips, your $500,000 salary as a junior employee.And when viewed in the daylight for the judgment of 12 men and women meant to represent a cross section of society, the workings of elite VCs can seem to contrast especially starkly with the rest of the real world. When it comes to Ellen Pao v. Kleiner Perkins, its anyones guess whose side the jury will ultimately take.Much of whats transpired at San Franciscos Superior Court this week has been public since the first legal complaint was filed by Ellen Pao nearly three years ago. Paos detailed allegations of sexual harassment, gender discrimination, and professional retaliation are not new, nor are Kleiners counter assertions that Paos failure to advance at the firm were instead due to her alleged failure to measure up as a competent and cooperative employee.But what is being revealed for the first time in court this week are a number of details around the events in question, from the legal teams opening arguments to the testimony of witnesses taking the stand. Some highlights of the rarefied environment being shown here include:All of this is apparently part of a days work for those in the upper echelons of venture capital, if you take Kleiner to be a sample size.Its become clear throughout the testimony of the past few days that all of the people involved in the Pao vs. Kleiner case move in a high end, high stakes, and often eccentric place. The spoils are rich, but the competition is fierce and confusing. Venture capital has its own lingo and signals and status symbols, and it often takes years for anyone to become fluent enough to make it to the top.Thats part of why its so shocking that this case has made it to public trial at all. This is not a slam-dunk case for either side. The legal teams for both Pao and Kleiner are tasked with first familiarizing the jury with all the particulars of how tech VCs work, and then with trying to sway the jurors to be sympathetic with their respective arguments.Its a case thats on track to take weeks, racking up huge legal bills and exposing many flaws for everyone involved. Indeed, as many have pointed out, it seems like it would have been in most everyones best interests to have settled privately long ago (except, perhaps, those of us in tech journalism. And even that is debatable.)But for now, only one thing is certain: Its impossible to predict which side the jury will take. Three days in, it really seems like its anyones game. A high stakes game, of course.