The jury is six men and six women, so this probably wont be quick, a man in a suit said to a female colleague as they shuffled out of the court.They were among the dozens of others who have been watching the Ellen Pao Vs. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers trial play out in San Francisco Superior Courts Room 602 for the past five weeks.The closing arguments from both the plaintiff and the defendants wrapped up just before noon on Wednesday. After the bailiff escorted the jury back into the deliberation room, there was pretty much nothing more for the public or the press to see until the verdict comes in.The jury, which must have consensus from at least nine members to return a verdict, likely has been engaged in some difficult discussions over the past day and into this morning. But its reductive, and likely very wrong, to think that the deliberations are boiling down to a standoff of women versus men.Itstempting to parse the courtroom, whose audience size has waxed and waned depending on the days witnesses,along gender lines.A small group of prominent women in technology have been in attendance on some key days of the trial, tweeting support for Pao and disdain at Kleiners defense. And ask one of the handful of casually dressed men who have become familiar faces in the courtrooms back rows what brings him in as a spectator, and hell tell you he is decidedly pro-Kleiner and that he thinksit is actually men who have the short end of the stick in todays corporate world.But scratching below that surface, its clear that allegiances arent so cleanly divided. A tenured professor who says shes experienced years of insidious sexism in her decades-long career at a San Francisco university started attending the trial in support of Pao, but is now rooting for a Kleiner Perkins victory. An older male lawyer who has been coming into the courtroom regularly during his free time expected to find a frivolous feminist lawsuit, but now believes that Pao has been gravely wronged and that Kleiner should pay big. Its not only the grown-ups who are having flip-flops in opinion:Overheard from teen girls in the hallway: "I was, like, all for #EllenPao winning but, like, now I don't know." So, whatever that's worth. Mike Simpson (@MikeSimpsonKGO) March 24, 2015If one thing has become clear in the past five weeks, its that Pao Vs. Kleiner is a complicated case, with conflicting testimonies and reams of evidence that can be interpreted in different ways. The jury has a tough decision on its hands. Here are the four claims on which itmust rule yes or no:If the jury agrees that the answers to any or all of those questions are yes, they must then decide whether or not she was also harmed because of it  this is where punitive damages come into play.Paos lawyers argue that she has lost out on some $16 million in lost wages and income, and if punitive damages are awarded they could amount to nine times that  meaning that Pao could stand to receive up to an additional $144 million. You can see the full seven-page verdict form that jurors have received here, and the instructions provided by the judge here. If the jury decides damages should be awarded, the trial will go into a phase two in which numbers are hashed out.As Fortunes Dan Primack wrote in a very sharp column today, the verdict may hinge on whether or not Pao convinced the jury that her investing track record  or at least her track record in bringing deals to the partnership  was clearly deserving of a promotion. The truth there could be hard to suss out, as determining why certain people get ahead in the world of venture capital is nearly as nuanced and murky as the modern environment forgender relations.The closing arguments from Paos legal team asserted that she was held back from advancing at Kleiner because of her gender, and that she was retaliated against because she spoke up about the biased culture at the firm.The closing arguments from Kleiner said that Pao was not promoted because she just wasnt good enough to get to the next level, and that once she realized she would not get ahead as an investor, she decided to create this legal complaint for an eight-figure payout.As many have said, no matter which way this pans out, it seems that neither Pao nor Kleiner will emerge as a stereotypically triumphant winner. This legal case has been a long and ugly one, with major aspersions cast on both sides. Whoever receives a favorable ruling will probably at best walk away with a sense of vindication-meets-utter-exhaustion.Since theremay be no real winner on the plaintiff or defense sides, it could be that the real winner here will be the larger plight of women in business and technology. Regardless of which way the jury goes, if Pao Vs. Kleiner Perkins elevates the default perception of these issues above the simple dichotomy of pitting women against men, that will have been a very good start.