
Tim Reyes is a freelance writer residing in Silicon Valley. With degrees in Physics, he has been an engineer for NASA supporting development of flight software of robotic spacecraft to the planet Mars. Three decades of development are about to culminate in a 24 hour period of discovery.Tomorrow NASAs New Horizons space probe will reach the finaleof its 9-year journey to the outer reaches of the solar system. The mission, a 13-year studyin marshaling resources, could be a lesson to any startup. And regardless of the outcome of tomorrows flyby, the probe has already revealed one hell of a planet.The remains of Clyde Tombaugh are perched on the hull of the New Horizons space probe, about to fly by the planet he discovered in 1930. Tombaughs ashes will then continue a voyage into the Cosmos. (Credits: NASA)Fast-forward to the alternative that became New Horizons and Americans now have a nuclear-powered, baby grand piano-sized probe on final approach to the planet (discovered in 1930 by Clyde Tombaugh, a Kansas farm boy working at Flagstaff Arizonas Lowell Observatory). Tombaugh passed away in 1997, but his cremated remains are along for New Horizons journey through space. His are the only human remains to leave the Earth-Moon system and the solar system.While New Horizons has been on its long trek to Pluto on the edge of the Solar System, human affairs took a toll on the planets status. When New Horizons was launched, Pluto was the 9th planet of the Solar System, and upon its arrival the former planet is now categorized as only one of many dwarf planets of our Solar System.Perhaps Pluto will; through New Horizons. After a 3,461 day journey, in its final day before the flyby, the space probe is revealing that this small body  a dwarf planet by designation of the IAU, and the only dual synchronized tidally locked bodies in the solar system  has complex and mysterious surface features. Features that could possibly present a case for its to return to the status of the 9th planet of our system.Like the other planets in the Solar System, Pluto and Charon were formed 4.6 billions years ago. The New Horizons team has aged 10 years since launch and some long-standing members like Stern have been waiting for this moment for nearly three decades. There have been achievements along the route to Pluto. A flyby of Mars, of Jupiter and its moons and of an asteroid, but it is almost all for naught if the space probe fails in its final hours as it flies by the binary system of Pluto and Charon.A NASA illustration of the New Horizons space probe during closest approach to the Pluto-Charon binary system. (Credit: NASA)The probe will fly within 13,000 kilometers (8000 miles) of Plutos surface and within 29,000 kilometers (18,000 miles) of Charons. During closest approach, two cameras  Ralph and Alice  are critical to mission success. Named after the iconic characters of the American sitcom the Honeymooners, these instruments are imaging spectrometers. Alice will image the surface in ultraviolet light and Ralph will in visible and infrared. Altogether, the spectral images will reveal the chemical composition of Plutos and Charons surface and Plutos ultra-thin atmosphere.The New Horizons space probe showing the location of the science instruments including the primary cameras for the flyby  Ralph & Alice.Details of the science instruments (Illust. Credit: NASA)The space probe has stopped radio communications in order to focus all its resources and literally turn all its attention towards Pluto and Charon. The probes cameras will scan the two small bodies with the pushbroom method of optical scanning. The probes computer will step through a rehearsed command sequence that will turn the space probe towards the planets surface and towards Charon and the tiny moonlets of the Pluto system.