Editors Note: Christine Magee is an editorfor CrunchBase.Halle Tecco is the founder and managing director of Rock Health, a digital health-focused seed fund. Rock Healthhas backedover 55 healthcare tech startups in the past four years including Omada Health, Doctor on Demandand Augmedix.Everyones been talking about wearables this year  its estimated that 10M activity monitors were sold in 2014 alone. Whats the nextphase inwearable tech?We did some research around wearables in the spring of 2014, and we noticed that venture funding of wearables grew 5 times from 2011 to 2013. So there was this record number of deals done in the wearable space, and obviously there was also a concurrent rise in sales of these wearables (that was really led by Fitbit). All of the original wearables were pretty much activity trackers taking simple measurements  but we see these as a gateway to something more.We are starting to see some really interesting technology that is more biosensing, using micro-needles to get into the interstitial fluids in a noninvasive way, or measuring new sources of data like your breath  like Spire, for instance. And then theres a company called Empatica thats trying to predict seizures. So having perhaps more of a clerical focus is where we see all of this technology going. And of course theres the Google contact lens for non-invasive glucose monitoring  that ones very cool, and the inventor of that technology recently went over to Amazon, so who knows what Amazons going to be doing. But all of these tech giants are starting to invest in this space, which is fantastic.When we talk about health and activity trackers, it seems like we forget about the massive amount of personal datainvolved. Should we be concerned about where this data is going?Youre right  there is a type of person who is concerned about that. Me personally? First of all, I cant imagine how the data would be used against me. If someones going to steal my health data  to what end? My employers not allowed to fire me for that, my insurance company isnt allowed to increase my payments because of that.. I dont see a motivation to steal it, so personally I think thats the wrong way to look at the problem. I think its something we have to consider in any sort of technology, but to me, the worst case here would be that someone is too afraid to use this technology and in turn they dont learn more about themselves. We call thiscitizen science  if we have more data we can find more answers. The downside is much higher if someone steals my ATM card than if they steal my Misfit data.I know the gadgetsare more fun to talk about, but how many of the companies that youre working with have some sort of social impact aspectto them?One interesting example is Oscar Health now offering Misfit Flashes to their members, and if they wear them they get discounts every month on their health insurance. I think thats huge  thats really aligning the incentive for patient care with financial rewards. Thats not necessarily social impact for really low-income people, but Im optimistic that those sort of incentives are going to work. Imagine if Medicare/Medicaid did something like that and was able to offer incentives to their members. AARP is also doing interesting stuff, theyre testing some wearables in the market for the 55+ age group, and testing the impact that just being aware of your activity will have on changing behavior in this group that is less tech-savvy than the 20 somethings that traditionally buy these wearables.According to CrunchBase data, a numberof Rock Healths companies have gone on to raise follow-on funding from corporate VCs. Should we expect to seean increase in corporate venture activity in the next year or two?In wearables in particular whats interesting is that the medical device companies have been building very complex devices for decades, and if they can figure out how to innovate theyre very well positioned help build very sophisticated wearables.In digital health in general, corporates are always a few years behind. They need to learn, they need to create astrategy, they need to get a thousand people to agree with that strategy but were really starting to see them pick up. A lot of very traditional health companies, whether thats Blue Shieldof California or United HeathCare, are starting to realize that they can grow and they can innovate by investing in these companies. Most recently there was a VC fundset up as a joint venture between Qualcomm and Novartis, and I thought that was a really interesting kind of coming together of the two pieces that make up digital health.Whats onetrendin the digital health space thats particularly exciting toyou right now?One of the big trends that were really bullish about is the concept of digital medicine. If you break down medicine into diagnosing things and treating things, there are a lot of places within that sector where technology can drastically reduce cost and increase access. We have a company called Neurotrack that can detect Alzheimersjust using software  it uses the camera on your laptop towatch your eye movements as you take a couple of tests online and then tells you your chances of Alzheimerssooner than anything else on the market. Since its software-based, the cost is next to nothing, and its doing something that no ones ever been able to do before. Generally when someone is diagnosed with Alzheimers, its just too late for anytreatment to be effective, and for that reason we havent been able to find a cure. If youre able to know 10 years before that someones going to get Alzheimers, you can try more drugs to see whats going to be effective. Thats on the diagnosis side, which I think is fascinating.Whatareyou still looking for?My colleague always says were looking for the health app thats going tobe on the home screen of your iPhone, something that you use so often and thats so important to you that its on your home screen right in between Facebook and Venmo. I know thats a very vague answer, but Im personally very excited about healthcare breaking down hospital walls and becoming something that consumers can manage on their own and not just dependent on doctors who are pretty expensive and pretty difficult to get to. We still dont have that Apple of healthcare, that brand that we love and that we really respect and trust  thats what wed like to see.