As consumers, we can probably agree that bank profits are, well,gross. In the second quarter of this year alone, U.S. lenders wrung a record $43 billionfrom their customers.Its the kind of stat that a small but growing two-year-old, L.A.-based investment company called Aspiration is increasingly using to gain new customers. In the words of cofounder and CEO Andrei Cherny, Aspiration aims to be a Merrill Lynch with a conscience.So far, the company is walking the walk. After toiling quietly for a couple of years to receive the necessary approvals, Aspirationnowhas its own low-risk mutual fund (managed by Emerald Asset Management on the East Coast) that its clients can beginfunding with just $500.Usersdont have to pay any management fees, either  zero  though they can opt to pay up to 2 percent of their assets under management if they so choose.Aspiration also offers completely free checking and free ATM transactions, though again, customers are invited to pay for the service  up to $6 per month  if they see fit.Its a pretty good deal. Not only do customersenjoy being freed from onerous transaction feesbutAspiration pays 1 percent interest on checking accounts, while most traditional banks are currently paying out between .20 percent and .80 percent interest.As if that werent enough,Aspiration is also donating 10 percent of its revenue to Accion, the large nonprofit microloan provider, so that morelow-income Americans canstart businesses.How it willall work to create a profitable business for Aspirationis the big question, though Cherny insists its notmuch of a mystery.For example, the company has partnered with 30-year-old, Boston-based Radius Bank on its checking product. Despite that some Aspiration customers may never pay a penny for their account, Radius can afford to rebate any out-of-network those customers incur because Radius loans the money in thosechecking accounts to customers wanting high-interest products like mortgages and other loans  same as any bank.When you put money in checking or savings, you arent doing your bank a favor, notes Cherny. Your bank is turning around and loaning it out at 3 percent and making a huge spread.Its also important to note that Aspirations products arent free, says Cherny. By no means is that true. We have people working hard on these products for our customers and we expect to be paid. But we believe we should be paid only if our customers feel that were delivering for them.As bizarre as it all sounds, the message is seemingly starting to click. The 16-person company  which recently closed on $15.5 million in Series A funding led by the Chinese social network Renren  says 90 percent of its customers are paying for itsproducts and services. If you act in a way thats deserving of peoples trust, they respond, explains Cherny. Indeed, itsenough proof of concept that the company is preparing to roll out a third, sustainable-investments, product for its customers very soon.And while its still early days  Cherny says Aspirations assets under management have just passed $5 million  he says user numbers are growing quickly, thanks mostly to social media and customer referrals.Specifically, he says Aspiration had 700 customers two months after officially launching in Aprilof this year and that its been doubling that user base every six to eight weeks since then. (Thats a tiny drop in the bucket compared with, say, the 70 million customers of Wells Fargo, but youve got to start somewhere.)For what its worth, Cherny isnt your run-of-the-mill founder.Certainly, he doesnt takelightly equal opportunity, which Aspiration says it aimsto provide to middle-class Americans, more and more of whom have been leaving the stock market over the last 15 years.In 2000, atage 25, he was profiled in the New York Times for his long obsession with policy.(The piece noted that by his senior year at Harvard, Mr. Cherny was writing speeches for President Clinton. A week after graduation, he became a senior speech writer for Vice President Al Gore.)Cherny also played a role in the launch of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, helpingthen-law scholar Elizabeth Warren in 2007honethe idea of what the agencywould later become. You can read about those efforts right here.More recently,Chernyspent four years as a criminal prosecutor and Arizona Assistant Attorney General, even running for Congress in 2012 with the campaign slogan, Save the middle class. (He lost the Democratic primary.)Cherny sounds just as passionate about the opportunity hes tackling today.Weve seen a lot of companies that are for-profit companies with a real social mission, and werebringing that to financial services, he says. With its greed-is-good ethos, he adds, itsprobably the industry that needs it most.