Amy Ogan, an educational technologist at Carnegie Mellon University, calls herselfaCMU lifer and for good reason.She nabbedboth herundergraduate degree and Ph.D from the school. For the last couple of years, she has also worked at the university as an assistant professor, where shes primarily focusedon making classrooms, both online and offline, far more engaging.Earlier this week, we talked withOgan abouthowher team of researchers is right now trying tomake good old-fashioned university settings more compelling through what they call sensing. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: What inspired you to examine real-world classroom engagement?AO: One of the motivations of this work is that with [online courses], we can collect data on what students are doing all the time, but theres a lot that you cant see, and a lot of those things demonstrate learning and give us better feedback. So were taking the idea back to the physical classroom first.TC: Youre collecting talk data to start. Whatkinds of patterns are you looking for?AO: Thefirst thing is to just look at who istalking in the classroom, which is amajor indicator of how students are doing  and how the teacher is doing, too. Inmany university classrooms, it turns out that not a lot of active learning is happening.TC: What techare you using to collect this data?AO: Were using sensors that arent expensive and can be set up in a variety of classrooms. You dont need to build a million-dollar, state-of-the-art classroom. Its microphones and cameras.TC: What in the talk data tells you that students are engaged?AO: Were looking at the frequency of questions, but also how often the instructor is pausing. Its been demonstrated that if you wait just three seconds after asking a question, you get orders of magnitude more participation from students in the class.In fact, one approach were tryingis when we detect that the teacher has been talking too long without interruption, we flash a big red screen on his or her laptopthat sort of breaksthat lecture mode and gets them to stop and solicit student participation.TC: How do they react?AO: Theyve been reacting favorably to it. The trick is not to interrupt the teaching in a way they cant handle.TC: And what are you doing with this analysis?AO: Weve figured out that the most productive approach is to incorporate some of this information into weekly training exercises for teachers and teaching assistants. One training exercise might prompt them to ask open questions that let students explore ideas, versus closed questions that check whether students have read materials. Then we look at weeks end to see whethertheyasked those open-ended questions.TC: Who, or what, is poring over all this data?AO: A research team here isworking on it every day. But were working to verify that you can use machine learning to do this in a completely automated way, as if a human was analyzing the data.TC: This is a research project, but if and when its time to commercialize it, what do you think the product might look like?AO: It would be easy for any teacher to set up; theyd receive feedback in an automated fashion. Theyd receive training exercises on a weekly basis that help them gauge how theyre doing. And theyd hopefully improve their own teaching and get better over time.While were focusing on talk first, well study facialreactions, too. A number of studies has shown how posture is related to student learning experiences, as well as how many people have their hands raised.TC: Youre not alone in trying to measure student engagement. Whats your biggest differentiator?AO:Ive seen a number of desktop -based systems that featureteacher dashboards, so teachers can look at the work that studentshave done across classrooms and determine, say, maybe the most commonerror that studentsare making. The idea is a similar one [to ours] in that it allows you to collect data so you can make improvements. But [those existing systems] dont show data about the teachers to better support learning. Thats really the piece that were trying to tackle  changing the way people approach teaching to turn lectures into more active participatory learning environments.