Editors Note: Christine Magee is an editorfor CrunchBase.Atlanta is home to the worlds largest drive-in, some of rap musics greatest minds, and 71 streets named Peachtree. Its also the centerof a thrivingstartup scene, as we saw at last nights Meetup +Pitch-Off.Over the past five years, venture investors have committed $1.2 billion in venture capital to Atlanta-based startups, according to CrunchBase data. Annualdeal count grew by25% in2014, and capital committedmore than tripledthe $110M recorded in 2010.Localinvestors are leading the charge, participating in 29 of the 51 rounds tracked last year. Atlanta-based firms comprise9 ofthe 10 most active investorsin Atlanta-based startups.Lately, Silicon Valleys biggest VCs aredoubling downon cybersecurity in the ATL. IVPledPindrops $35 million Series B last week, and both Google Ventures and KPCB got in onIonic Securitys $40 million Series Clast month.Atlanta may also have its first consumer unicorn withYikYak, which raised Atlantaslargest venture round in 2014  a$62 million Series Bled by Sequoia.For the right kind of deals and the right teams, West Coast VCs have been coming here for a long time, says Glenn McGonnigle, partner at Atlanta-based firmTechOperators.But whats changed is that nowwe have a very vibrant ecosystem and talent, and increasingly we have local capital.TechOperators has closed five deals forAtlanta-based B2B startups in the past five years. Thats what this region is best known for  sales, marketing tech, payments, cybersecurity, to name a few, says McGonnigle. Its a historical strength.Its no surprise that B2B companies flourish in A-Town  the city hasthe sixth-highest concentrationof Fortune 500 companies in the U.S.When it comes to getting early customers from really big corporate logos, Atlanta is awesome because all of these big companies are supportive and they will take meetings, saysAshish Mistry, Managing Partner at topAtlanta firm BLH Venture Partners. You can meet with the CIO of Equifax, or Suntrust, or Coke  people who control budgets and who can give you feedback from a customers perspective so you can really build your business.Alongwith providing a corporate customer base, these Fortune 500 companies serveasthe Google and Facebook of the Southwhen it comes to providinga localtalent pool.AndGeorgia Tech, home tothe fourth best Undergraduate Engineering program in the country,serves as Atlantas Stanford.The talent pool here is amazing, and the startupdensity is nowhere near the Bay Areaor New York, so we dont have as much turnover or attrition, says local angel investor and entrepreneur Paul Judge. That allows us to stay heads down and focus on building and growinginstead of worrying thatevery time someone goes to Starbucks theyre getting five job offers, says Judge.Judge is among a handful of successful Atlanta entrepreneurs who have launchedprograms to kickstart the regions startupscene. His latest venture, TechSquare Labs, is a blend of an incubator, seed fund andco-workingspace thats located largely on Georgia Techs campus.TechSquare Labs is in the process of buildinga brand new Innovation Lab acrossthe street from a 25-storyapartment building thatwillhouse 600 entrepreneurial-minded students upon completion.Literally on the application to live in this building, it asks do you have a startup or want to have a startup? , Judge says.Thisgrowing support system for youngentrepreneurs and little competition on the venture side makes Atlanta a win-win for local investors.I couldve gone and done this wherever, but theres a ton more upside here in the sense that its a medium-sized pond and you can be a medium-sized fish, versus being in those markets where everybodys got venture something on their business card and youre breaking down the door to get into some of these companies, says Mistry.And then theres the quality of life question. As the median price of a one-bedroom rental shoots above $3,400 per month in San Franciscos most central neighborhoods, jumping ship is an increasingly attractive option. Ive got a 4-bedroom house in the city, 6 minutes from anything, and my mortgage is half that, Mistry says. Its nuts.