Augment, a Paris-based Augmented Reality (AR) startup announced this morning that they raised more than $3 million from Salesforce Ventures to further expand company operations and also specific integrations with Salesforce software. This brings the total investment amount raised since launch to $4.7 million.Augments AR software, which is built on PTCs Vuforia platform, has both B2B and consumer implementations, however the B2B modelseems the most interesting and the one with the most runway.Their B2B offering specializes in helping vendors visualize product placement for the merchants with whom they work. For example, a brandrep can help a merchant visualizeprior to orderingwhich productend capto choose and what it will look like when integrated into the store location.Based on the funding, it should come as no surprise that Augment is also, as their press release states:integrated into the Salesforce1 Mobile App and brings augmented reality sales solutions to Salesforce customers. During presentations, users across various industries can now capture augmented reality simulations of their 3D product models, which are automatically attached and synced to the related opportunity. This enables teams to better communicate product placements with customers, shortening the sales cycle and optimizing productivity.Augments AR technology itself is not necessarily something we havent seen before. In many ways, it reminds me ofAR demos Ive seen as far back as 2011. It is simple and mostly (but not exclusively) uses target markers to orient. Markers are flat images that are used to identify where the augmented content should go when you view a space with your device or smart glasses.However, it is the simple and practical nature of Augments platform that makes it interesting to me. Whats important here is that Augment has figured out a practical business model for Augmented Reality as this imaging technology begins its slow climb out of what Gartner calls the Trough Of Disillusionment in their Hype Cycle model for determining technology relevance. For the record, Im not quite as pessimisticas Gartner is about ARs climb to productivity.Its nice to seethe technology actually demonstrating value as a business tool instead of only behaving as a marketing enhancement like weve seen here and here.Additionally, I think its smartthat Augments strategy is focused on building their ownplatform to ease repeated AR visualization efforts rather than causing sales reps and/or vendors to require single one off projects each time they need to realize their AR needs.Augment countsbrands such as Coca-Cola Germany and LOreal among its 200clients.