AWS made several announcements today aimed squarely at moving thegamedeveloper community to its cloud platform.First of all, theres Amazon Lumberyard, a 3D gaming development engine the company isoffering for free with no costs for seat licenses, subscription costs or revenue sharing. For now, it works with console and PC games, but the plan is to offer virtual reality (VR) and mobile gaming support soon. It had better, since that is likely where many game developers want to be.For now,Amazon is just putting the serviceout there in Beta to show game developers its serious about wanting a piece of theirbusiness, and why wouldnt it? Gaming is a resource-intensive processandAmazon hopes to sell infrastructure services on the back-end to developers after dangling the free development engine as a carrot.To sweeten the pot, the Amazon also announced Amazon GameLift, a deployment engine designed foroperating and scaling session-based multiplayer games, according to Amazon. The beauty of this piece is that as people come on or offline, the game can add or remove servers to match demand.This piece isnt free, costing $1.50 per 1,000 daily active users plus fees for whatever other AWS services they use  like servers and database access. Game developers only pay for what they use, but if a games a hit, AWS should makesome serious cash. If its not, the developers dont have to pay for resources theyre not using.But wait, dont answer yet. Theres more. Amazon is also offering integration with Twitch, the game streaming service it bought last year for close to a billion dollars, and of course it all fits together neatly.Amazon Lumberyard is integrated with Twitch so that developers can build gameplay features that engage the more than 1.7 million monthly broadcasters and more than 100 million monthly viewers on Twitch, Amazon wrote in its statement.As for Amazon, it claims to be giving the people in this case game developers  just what they want. While there are alternative game development engines out there at the moment, AWS is offering the power of its platform and hoping that a scalable and integrated one-stop shop could be enough to luregame developers to them.