A group of high school friends, now UC Berkeley engineers, have created an app called Bash to make it easier for friends to organize hangouts, meetups and other events. Launching today on the App Store following a small beta test on the UC Berkeley campus, theidea with Bash isto offer a less cumbersome alternative to using text messages or emails to organize these sorts of activitiesby allowing usersto post event details, invite others, comment and quickly RSVP while also keeping track of whos attending an event, receive notifications about changes, and more.Explains Bash co-founderDanish Shaik, the team behind Bash has been working together on various projects since the beginning of high school, including their TechCrunch SF 2013 Hackathon win with Spruce, a dictation service for online reading. Shaik says that as the team moved on to college, they found themselves messaging each other constantly in order to arrange get-togethers, but the processsoon became frustrating.Rather than ending with a time and a place, those conversations ended with hundreds of unrelated messages and a confused group of friends, says Shaik. Messaging wasnt made for organizing hangouts, so we built a platform that was.The app itself works something like a standalone version of Facebook Events, as it allows you to create an eventwith just a few taps, by filling out things like the event name, location, time, and description. To get started with the service, users sign up with their Facebook account information and then confirm their phone number via text.For those who had already been invited to events via Bash before installing the app, their feed will automatically populate with theirlist of upcoming activities. In addition, to cater to its local crowd, Bash is launching today with a Berkeley tab aimed at those new students just starting school who want to invite friends to various welcome week activities.Unlike some of its prior competitors, Bash also works with those who dont have the app installed. In that case, event organizers can invite friends by text message, which will link out to the Bash web version. Here, friends can view the event details and RSVP without downloading the app.However, for those who have the app on their phone, its even easier to respond  you justswipe on an incomingiOS push notification to indicate whether youre Not Going or Going to the event in question.While there have been a number of attempts in the past to make it easier to find or organize hangouts between friends by way of a dedicated mobile app, including apps like Wigo, Ketchuppp, Jigglist, Gather, Weotta, and more, there hasnt been a breakout hit in this space beyond Facebook Events or perhaps Meetup.com for more public group activities. In fact, Facebook Events has grown so large  it now has 450 million users  thats its said to be next in line to be broken out into its own standalone app, following Facebooks similar moves to break out Messenger and Groups into their own apps.That could prove challenging for a smaller startup like Bash, which will need to figure out a competitive advantage. In the future, that could be working to partner with other organizations through its special activities tab, like its doing now with Berkeley, for example. Or it could ditch the Facebook login requirement in order to offer users an alternative way to organize or join events outside of the large social network  something that could appeal to the college-age demographic which is gravitating toward private mobile messaging apps rather than the bigger, more public social networks like Facebook when it comes to communicating with friends.Bashwas built by Shaik along withZuhayeer Musa and Jimmy Liu, while they attendedschool and during the summer, following their participation in UCBerkeleys Foundry incubator on campus. The app was privately tested with 100 people on the UC Berkeley campus ahead of todays official launch. The startupis currently bootstrapped and free to download from iTunes. An Android version is planned.