Pico projectors have found their way into smartphones before now (e.g. the Samsung Galaxy Beam), but mostly as an gimmicky add on. And one thats fizzled out, rather than becominga standard issue feature  like, say, theLED flash on theback of your handset which doubles as a torch.Expense and battery life have likelyput paid to any mass mobile rollout of pico projectors so far. That and niche utility. Not everyone wants or needs a micro projector in their phone. But as more functions crowd onto the small screen, a tech that offersa way to feelless tethered to that screen when at home  and to widen its canvason demand  might well have broaderappeal.The team behind thisKickstarterproject, called Beam, certainly think so. And theyve managed to pull in $400,000+ and counting  more than double their original target  from over 1,100 backers after just a few days on thecrowdfunding trail. Their campaign still has almost a month to run. Stretch goals ahoy.Their approach is to build an Android-powered pico-projector into a can that screws into an existing light socket. That means theres abuilt in fix for the battery life issue, given it pulls power from the mains.Obviously itlimits portability butportable pico projection always felt a bit like overkillgiven you need an uncluttered flat surface to project onto in any case. So focusing this tech on the home makes plenty of sense.Their Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connected pico-projector canbe controlled by an Android or iOS app, or by a Bluetooth device (theres also a manual switch on the light itself).The Beam also includes an LED light so its both projector and lightbulb (so wont entirely hijack yourlight socket).The projection resolution is a distinctly mid range(854 x 480 pixels, and 100 lumen on brightness). So backers should not beexpecting to help fund development of a high end HD home theatre projection experience. Set your expectations accordingly.Also on board:a couple of 2 Watt speakers, although userscan also link up their ownBluetooth speakers. Internal storage is 8GB unless stretch goals push that up, and the on-board processor is a mid to low range 1.3GHz dual-core. The maximum projection size you could expect from Beam is listed as 120 inches/~3 meters.The companion app the team are building will include some IF/THEN customizations so the user can configure their projector to displaya certain type of content at a certain time of day,such as showing weather and news in the morning; or changing whats shown depending on whos arrived home (presumably usingBluetooth to identify differentdevice users in its vicinity).Using Android as its on-board OS means the Beam also provides access to Googles Play Store  even if you have aniPhone as the controlling device. The team notes that content can be streamed to the projector from an iOS device via Airplay, or elsevia Miracast.Given its running Android, the team also points outdevelopers will be able to use existing IDE and tools to develop apps for thesmart projector.Price-wise, the pico-projector does not have a micro price-tag: its bumped up to$399 forKickstarter backers at this point, so its not exactly an impulse purchase. Or something to stick in light sockets in every room. But is quite a bit cheaper than full-fat home cinemaprojectors.The LA-based team behind Beam says itshoping to be able to ship the product to backers by October. ButKickstarter pledgers should always be prepared to be patient and/or disappointed before deciding to part with their cash.As with all crowdfundingprojects, and often especially those involving hardware, caveat emptor applies  given backersare pledging cash for a productprojection (appropriately enough in this case)not the real-dealfinished product.