Subscription-based beauty sample box providerBirchbox, which helps consumers discover new products by shipping them samples by mail, todayannounced its plans to expand its offline retail footprint to at least two more stores in 2016. The additional retail locations will join the companys now year-oldbrick-and-mortar storefront located in Soho, New York, and will be chosen following a summer road trip involving pop-up shops aimed at evaluating consumer demand and sales potential inthe prospective cities.The three cities being evaluated are not being announced yet, as Birchbox says its first allowing customers to enter their zip codes and vote on the locations. Then, the company will kick off its Birchbox and Birchbox Man Road Trip  as the event is being called  on August 7th. The trip will involve turning two shipping containers into mini-shops, and will allow customers to browse and purchasefull-size beauty, grooming and makeup products, as well as engage in other events and activities, including free beauty and grooming services.Birchbox is known for its low-cost beauty product sampling service  one of the firstbox of the month clubs, that eventually spawned a host of competitors dubbing themselves the Birchbox for X. Today, the company reports that 35 percent of its revenue comes from e-commerce sales of full-size products. This is up from the 30 percent Birchbox reported last year when the company announced its $60 million Series B round.The idea with Birchbox, for those unfamiliar, is to whet consumers appetite for a variety of products by first allowing them to try samples of high-end beauty and grooming products. After subscribersdiscover something they like, Birchbox makes it easy for them to then purchase the full-size product from its website. In other words, the monthly box is what eventually fuels conversions on Birchboxs online store. According to internal company metrics, 50 percent of Birchbox subscribers end up buying a full-size product on its online store, where Birchbox now features over 800 brands.The subscription business has1 million subscribers in total, and while the company doesnt share revenue numbers, recent estimates indicate the international retail business now pulls in $170 million per year.Above: Birchboxs retail storeBirchboxs Road Trip concludes on August 29th, and its results will help to determine which two of the three cities will be home to Birchboxs new stores. According to a company spokesperson, Birchbox will not only make its decision based on sales, but also on metrics like how many shoppers came through the stores, as well as general customer feedback and interest.This isnt Birchbox first offline expansion beyond itsSoho store  the company announced last month a partnership with Gap that sees it opening pop-up shops in seven flagship Gap locations includingSan Francisco, Chicago, Los Angeles, and Houston, plus three in New York(Flatiron, Lincoln Square, and Herald Square). Its interest in the offline channel has to do with the quality of the customer it can acquire here offline customers have 3 times the lifetime value, says Birchbox.These new offline pop-up shops wont only be featuring the full-sized products it sells, the company notes. Theyll also focus on introducing new consumers to the brand, too. In these three locations,there will be a subscription wall where customers can order a three-month Birchbox subscription and leave with their first box in hand. This can either be a curated box Birchbox builds itself or they can choose their own items at a Build Your Own Birchbox station.To encourage customers to vote on the city selection, Birchbox is now running apromotion which awards $5 worth of Birchbox points to those who share their votes on social media. Voting ends on July 17th, and the three selected cities will be announced on August 3rd.Birchbox is now one of several e-commerce marketplaces thats experimenting with engaging customers viaoffline promotions and pop-up shops over the summer holidays. Amazon, for example, earlier announced its Seattle-based Treasure Truck (though apparently ran into delays), and eBay also has been drivingan Airstream trailer around the Hamptons and New York to connect shoppers with its various deals.