Bellabeat, a company that makesa line health trackers and other devices aimed at women, including especiallymoms and moms-to-be, today begins shipping its first wearable: a piece of smart jewelry called the Leaf. The device, which can be worn as a brooch, necklace or bracelet, allows women to record their activity, sleep, stress and reproductive health with the help of an accompanying mobile application.The startup, a Y Combinator graduate from the accelerators Winter 2014 program,first introduced the Leaf last fall alongside a connected ultrasound monitor and smart scale, with promises that the jewelrywould ship this year.The item is designed to provide pregnant or new moms (or any woman, really) a way to monitor their movementsand sleep patterns, similar to otheractivity trackers on the market today.However, the Leaf differentiates itself by also introducing a way to help women track their stress levels, too. It does this by measuring your breathing movements, which it uses as a proxy for stress.Of course, if youre planning to work out, youll need to wear the jewelry attached to your garments instead of as a necklace so it doesnt get confused.Also unique to the Leaf is its ability to help women track their menstrual cycle using the Leaf app, where the trackers data is combined and collected. The idea is that women can not only notate details about their cycle in the app, as many third-party apps today allow for, but they can cross reference that information with the data the wearable collects to help them better understand their overall health trends. This could potentially help women increase their chance to conceive, the company claims.Unlike many fitness trackers which tend to have bulky straps and a decidedly unisex appeal, the Leaf is designed to look like real jewelry to appeal to a more fashion-conscious crowd. The original Leaf is made with American ash wood and a stainless steel clip. And today, Bellabeat is introducing a second variation with the Leaf Black Edition, which offers a darker wood combined with a gold-plated clip.The device offers a 6-month battery life and a replaceable battery, and comes in a biodegradable packaging made of sugar cane fiber, bamboo, and reed pulp. Its being sold for $119 (standard) or $250 (Black Edition), andincludes a leather bracelet and necklace.Perhaps because of its aesthetic appeal, the Leaf has already attracted a number of potential customers. According to co-founderUrka Sren, 120,000 women have signed up for the waitlist to date. Now its time to see how many will become customers.But Bellabeat is no longer relying only on its own e-commerce sales  the Leaf willbe sold on Amazon, Target and Best Buy, too. Srensays that orders placed will ship around mid-June.The Leaf mobile app is not yet live, but will launch when the product begins to ship. However, screenshots (see above) show a lightand minimalist interface that lets you view your health data and charts, as well as view key metrics with a glance.In addition to Y Combinator, Bellabeat is backed by investors including SV Angel, Universal Music Group, CrunchFund (disclosure: TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington also founded CrunchFund), Cherubic Ventures, Promus Ventures, and others.