Bellabeat, the maker of a trio of health trackers for moms and moms-to-be, isnow broadening its focus to include a feature set designed to appeal to all women after selling out of its initial pre-orders, netting the company $1.2 million in revenue. With the Bellabeat Leaf, a piece of smart jewelry that can be worn as a necklace, pendant, bracelet or brooch to track activity, sleep and stress levels, the company is addingnew features to the app and device itself that allows women to track their overall reproductive health.That is, the Leaf willbe updated to allowyou to track and be notified about your period, contraception intake, and ovulation period  features that make sense for those looking to conceive, as well as those who are not.The Leaf is one of three items in Bellabeats lineup of health trackers for women, which also includes the Bellabeat Shell  a monitoring system for expecting moms  and the smart scale called the Bellabeat Balance.Whats appealing about the Leaf isnt only the functionality it provides  its one of only a few activity monitorsthat also tracks breathing (as a proxy for stress levels)  but also its form factor. Unlike some wearables which tend to include bulky, plastic-y bands that make them look more like sports watches, the Leaf is made of recyclable European woodand steel, and looks like jewelry many women would actually wear.Bellabeat co-founderUrka Sren says that the Leaf is now one of the companys most popular products, alongside the Shell.The startups first batch of pre-orders have sold out the 10,000 units generated $1.2 million in revenue, she tells us. The Shell and the Leaf were the products that received the most interest,Sren notes. That gave us a proof-of-market that women really want well-designed products made just for them.Now the company is entering the retail market, with plans to feature its devices in targeted stores in order to raise the brands visibility and awareness. Currently, Bellabeat has secured 65,000 of wholesale pre-orders for all retailers combined, mostly in the U.S., but also including a handful ofglobal markets like the U.K. Australia, and China. The plan is to have the devices in U.S. stores by the end of Q1, and in the other markets later in the year.Those who have committed to sell the Bellabeat in-store include Target, Best Buy, Bloomingdales, John Lewis (U.K.), Selfridges (U.K.), Apple Reseller Stores (U.K., GCC) and Orange (FR, U.K.) In addition, the devices will besold online on Amazon and Taobao.com as well as on the companys own website, where you can register to be alerted when more pre-orders become available.We have also received interest from Apple in distributing our products worldwide as Leaf will be a great addition to smartwatches, especially Apple Watch, addsSren.She hints, too, that the company has partnerships with fashion brands in the works, but cant disclose details until the deals close.Plus, the startup has brought onMiss California (and first-runner up for Miss America 2014), Crystal Leewho is now sporting the Leaf as the companys first brand ambassador.Whats interesting about the Bellabeat product line is that it focused on an area that many health trackers were ignoring  new and expectingmothers. This demographic is happy to spend on items that let them connect with their child, whether thats buying a music system to play tunes to the womb, or, as with the Shell, letting moms hear their babys heartbeat. (The same device later identifiesbabyscries, plays music, and serves as a home monitoring system that tracks temperature and humidity.)We have gained substantial interest from our customers that are far from the tech-savvy San Franciscocrowd, saysSren of the companys growth. And that proved us that wearables have a huge product/market fit outside of fitness and activity tracking alone.