Some days its hard to get excited about Bluetooth speakers. Thats not a statement of judgment, really, its just that the space has been flooded with a lot of like-minded devices that are honestly pretty tough to tell apart. And then something like the Beoplay A1 comes along and gives you hope that maybe theres still a little more excitement left in the category after all.Even at first glance, its clear theres something different going on here. Bang & Olufsens/B&O PLAYsbudget speaker is a departure from the standard Bluetooth bar. The form factor is best described as a button, a circular shape with the grille on top and controlsalong the side. The design, coupled with the on-board microphone, also makes the A1 a solid speakerphone. Pair it to a handset, and boom, instant conference call.Honestly, it looks a bit weird at first glance, particularly when coupled with the leather string that hangs off the side like a bolo tie. But B&O has never been one to shy away from interesting designs for both form- and function-related purposes. Created by Danish furniture designer Cecilie Manz, the form factor frees the speakerfrom having to sit around on a desk all day.Its a bit like the UE Roll, in that you can hang iton the wall, tie it to a backpack or throw it in a bag to take with you (as I have been doing to and from the office for the past few days). TheBeoplay A1 doesnt, however, look and feela lot more substantial  and premium  than Logitechs device. Andthat kind of build brings some comprises in terms of ruggedness.Thats not to say the speaker is fragile its scratch and dust resistant and strong enough to take a few knocks, should you decide to take it camping, but dont expect to, say, take a shower with the thing. Really, if ruggedness is a primary concern, I would look elsewhere. That said, the Beoplay looks a heck of a lot better sitting on a desk or bookcase than the sporty, neon UE Roll, which is theenergy drink of the Bluetooth speaker world (making the A1 something more along the lines of a dry martini).Most importantly, the thing sounds great. B&O has done a really great job jamming a lot of sound into a little device. The speakers deliver a nice mix of highs and lows in a full and surprisingly powerful sound from a small circumference. The speaker also gets plenty loud, capable of volumes higher than some larger speakers, without risking distortion.B&O also goes big on battery life, with a promised 24 hours by the companys count. I found that I was able to use it for several days without having to plug it in. And when that time comes, it does so via USB-C for extra speed.The caveat here, as with so many B&O products before it, is price. As mentioned before, this is a budget speaker for the company, which still puts it toward the high end of standard Bluetooth desk speakers at $250. There are a lot of much cheaper units on the market that offer decent audio, but for those looking for a well-crafted, great sounding system with longbattery life, the Beoplay delivers the goods.