U.S. biotech startupBioBotssits at the intersection between computer science and chemistry. Its debut product, a desktop 3D printer for biomaterials, which was just demoed on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt NY  printing Van Goghs ear in replica, no less  combines hardware, software and wetware. Its the latter area where thecore innovation sits, saysco-founderDanny Cabrera.Biofabrication, the process ofartificially building living tissue structures, is not a new field  there ismore than a decade of research in this area already. ButCabrera and his co-founders believe they have spotted an opportunity tooverhaul expensive (circa$100,000+), large, complexlegacy devices  taking inspiration from the small, low-cost desktop 3D printers being used by the maker movement to extrude plastic.Instead of plastic, BioBots 3D printer uses a special ink that can be combined with biomaterials and living cells tobuild 3D living tissue and miniature human organs. The use-case at this point is for research and pre-clinical screening, such as drug testing (as a replacement for animal testing). Its not about3D printing replacement organs from a persons own cells  albeit developments in this areaare heading (incrementally) in that direction. More near term future potential for the tech is tohelp fosterbespoke disease therapies, according to Cabrera.We really see it as a product for pharmaceutical companies right now, for companies that are doing clinical drug testing, hetells TechCrunch. You can use these devices to build 3D living tissue models using human cells, and you can use those models which are way more complex than 2D tissues or animals. Theyreally recapitulate the function of the body. And you can use them to develop compounds for clinical settings. And catch the false positives before they get to clinical trials.Looking down the line for us we see this as a way to develop personalized therapy routines. So you can have patients coming into the clinic and we can take cells directly from the patient and build 3D tissues, miniature tissues, specifically for that patient and test different treatments, different drug routines and personalized therapys for patient-specific disease.Weve got this old school notion that we lump diseases together into categories and we give them names but diseases are all different from individual to individual, and our drug development process is sort of outdated  where we develop one drug for millions of people in these expensive clinical trials. Where today we can really use this technology to build one drug for one individual person, he adds.The startup began as a dorm-room projectas two of the co-founders were at the point of graduating from their computer science and biology degrees at the University of Pennsylvanialast June, drawing on their ownresearch interests in genetic engineering and tissue engineering.Our idea was we can use the same approaches that were used in the maker movement to build smaller and cheaper devices in biotech, saysCabrera.When we looked at what was out there we found devices that existed were huge  they looked like old mainframe computers, they took up entire rooms, they cost half a million dollars and were really difficult to operate. You needed technicians to operate them.The team won$5,000 in early capital viaa university competition to develop their first prototype. After selling one to a PhD student they decided the idea had legs, and were selected to gothrough theDreamit Healthaccelerator in Philadelphia, pulling in $50,000 via that program last fall. Theyve now been shipping their initialbiomaterial printer for a few months, working closely with researchers to keep tuning the initial product (with a price-tag of around $5,000 on the machine for researchers who are helping with BioBots own development).Their recurring business model will beselling differentinks used as the base for printing different biomaterials with the printer. Today its launching a beta version of acartilage ink kit (costing $700).The printer uses visible (blue) light (combined with a compound photoinitiator thats contained withinits ink) to cure biomaterial structures, rather than pressure or UV light as some of the more established devices do. Cabrera says thisis more effective for printing living tissue since pressure and UV can both harm living cells, whereas the blue light its using does not have a detrimental impact on cells.To use thedevice to fabricate a tissue structure, such as a piece of bone, cartilage or liver, a user combinesthe BioBots photoinitiator powder with whatever living cells they want to print, plus binding factors to ensure the cells stick together.Our ink is three powders, they would add their fourth powder, which is the binding factor, and they would have to add their cells, mix that up for 5-10 minutes and then put it into the device, have their structure designs on AutoCAD or Solidworks or whatever CAD software they use. Our software would then convert that file to printer instructions, explainsCabrera.The BioBots printer has one extruder and uses hydraulic pressure to push the material out of a syringe. Once the biomaterial is inplace the printer shines visible blue light to harden the structure. Print timevaries, depending on the type of tissue youre attempting to fabricate, says Cabrera.So far our clients are literally working across the spectrum from bone to lung, liver, heart, brain, skin, cartilage using these processes, he adds.Startup battlefield judges: Noah Lichtenstein (Cowboy Ventures), Jessica Livingston (Y Combinator), Shana Fisher (Highline Venture Partners) and Heidi Messer (Collective[i]).Messer: Whats your distribution strategy. How do you plan to distribute to hospitals and doctors, and does insurance cover this?Cabrera: Right now its more of a research tool. Were pushing it out to the pharmaceutical industry  really dealing with R&D departments, so were not really dealing with doctors. Were dealing with researchers right now. There are a lot of existing sales channels to sell to the pharmaceutical industry, and were trying to tap into those We are looking for somebody who has that expertise who we can bring onto the team.Livingston: You have a list of a lot of partners  have they given you any feedback on this? Have they used it? What have they created?Cabrera: All of those clients I showed are really early adopters. Theyre people who bought the device before we had a kit. Everything they do theyll telling us about, theyre telling us exactly how theyre using the device, really allowing us to become a library for tissue engineering knowledge. Thats how we were able to figure out hey we really need a cartilage kit. And this is exactly the components we need to do this. The R&D on this would normally have taken hundreds of thousands of dollars at least, and months if not years, and we able to accelerate that process because of these key partnerships and these researchers working so closely with the device.Lichtenstein: How do you measure success? What is the metric you use when youre selling this device? So this is working the way that we need it to work.Cabrera: The device itself is a mechanical system, that we can measure pretty easily  the resolution, the precision of the device. Really its up to researchers to use the device in a way thats relevant for their work. For example for a pharmaceutical company, they would build a 3D living tissue  a key example that keeps coming up again is for cancers. Build a miniature tumor and test cancer drugs on it, and see which of these drugs work and which ones dont. Basically if you can recapitulate whats happening in the body, if you can mimic the function of the body thats success. If not then well just try it again. Thats the point of this digital fabrication technology  is that you can have really quick turnaround times, change up your designs really quickly.Fisher: What does this replace currently? In more basic research in life sciences you can grow skin graft samples and test topical drugs on those samples. What do you see this replacing?Cabrera: First its not going to replace anything  its going to create new capabilities. So the first thing is youre literally adding an extra dimension to your tissue culture. Right now all this stuff is done in 2D, and now suddenly you can do it in 3D. Physiologically thats a lot more relevant. Cells in 3D behave very differently than they do in 2D. So companies are really excited to be working with this technology and its something theyve been looking for for a while. And as far as what we see it replacing in the future, in places like Europe where theyve banned animal testing in cosmetics thats a key area we can go into and begin being that replacement for animals. And eventually we see it being a replacement for the entire clinical development of drugs.Ideally if youre going to test drugs on one person at a time youd develop drugs very specifically for that person but nobody wants to be that guinea pig. Suddenly we can take cells directly from the patient, build these 3D tissues, and develop drugs  not on the patient but on their cells and on tissue constructs that are really built from their own body.Jason Kincaid: There are other companies working on 3D printing as regard to medicine. Can you talk a little bit more about this technique youve used thats not going to kill the cells? How you came across it without a ton of funding? How defensible it is? What other folks might be doing that could do something similar?Cabrera: I was a student at Penn., and right after I graduated I had a friend  the other founder Ricardo  he was working on the prototypes for this device. And after I graduated we literally bought three Ikea desks, pushed off the furniture on top of a bar where we were living and we stumbled across these sets of chemistry that people had used for a wide variety of different applications. We were looking for something we could use to not kill the cells, basically. And we stumbled into this  basically its a compound  its a chemical that works with visible light. And thought that sounds awesome. And we tried it and it worked really well. Nobody has actually used visible light  in the IP landscape  for building 3D living tissues. And so that was a space that we thought we can really own. And it makes a lot of sense for biology. So we filed those patents earlier this year. We really think its defensible, and not only defensible  we really think its the best way to build these tissues.