The bitcoin-watching news service CoinDesk recently released its first quarter look into the cryptocurrencys performance during the opening months of 2015. Mostly the data is net positive, showingan increase in total wallets, and investment. However, there are a number of included data points that demonstrateslowing growth in key bitcoin, and bitcoin-related areas.The collected data indicates that the first quarter of 2015 was the most popular ever in terms of the dollar-value of venture capital investments made into the bitcoin ecosystem. That data point, however, is skewed by a single investment the $116 round millioninvested into 21, a company that remains at least partially occluded in terms of its ambitions. Aside from that single investment, first quarter venture investment was on par  $113 million  withthe preceding fourth quarter.Key to bitcoins performance, at least from an external perspective, is the number of wallets in existence. Those receptacles and storage locations of bitcoin help the market understand how many new people the cryptocurrency is attracting. In the first quarter, according to the CoinDesk report, total wallets grew from 7.4 million to 8.4 million, up 14 percent on a sequential quarter basis.That growth rate is likely under expectations from a year ago. The market value of all bitcoin in circulation  some remains yet-to-be-mined  fell from the last quarter of 2014 to the first quarter of 2015 by 36 percent.Heres CoinDesks recent chart of aggregate bitcoin trading volume, on a monthly basis:The sequential quarter totalis skewed by the November timeframe, but it seems that volume hasnt seen too great an acceleration, or deceleration in the last two three-month cycles.Among the bulleted key takeaways that the report contains is the following: Bitcoin struggled to gain mainstream consumer traction [in the quarter]. That has been the case for the life of bitcoin. That the trend persists isnt, therefore, too surprising. Still, it isnt hard towonder what bitcoin firms that pitched investors over the past 18 months, predicted would happen  did they anticipate thatthe price of bitcoin be so low? Would investors have invested quite so much over the past year if bitcoin wallet adoption was as slow as it has been?Last thought, heres CoinDesks aggregate new merchant adoption of bitcoin:You can ask yourself if that deceleration is bad, or merely a blip.