A sequel to last yearspro-privacy Android smartphone Blackphone has just been announced, here at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona.The Blackphone 2 has a more premium look and feel than the original plastic device, with an all-glass front and rear  reminiscent of the design of Apples iPhone 4 along witha larger full HD display, at 5.5 inches across; a faster 64-bit processor and more RAM. It will go on sale this summer.The company has also shown a prototypeeight-inch tablet device, which will be called the Blackphone+, which its lining up for a fall release. Development for this isstill at a relatively early stage, with an extended alpha beta program planned with partners to see what it is that they are interested in the tablet doing, as CTO Jon Callas puts it.Theres still a number of decisions that we have about where we can go on it. Like aspect ratio. Do we do 16:9, do we do 4:3, he tells TechCrunch in an interview.Blackphone hardware runs a hardened Android fork, called PrivatOS, so its also compatible with Android apps.Last DecemberSGP announced itwould be adding in itsown app store in an update due earlythis year  along with a featurecalled Spacesthat will let userssegmentactivity on theirdevice by creating multiplesecure spaces for particular apps, accounts or data to help balance security and usability.The original Blackphone project was marketedat prosumers with security concerns. But the Switzerland-based company behind it, SGP Technologies, is now thinking a lot bigger  flush with $80 million in external investment its taking in since last May. Its refocusing on selling security-focusedmobilehardware and encrypted comms software toenterprises, withprosumers now its secondary target. Call it a partial pivot, after enterprises liked what they saw with last years Blackphone and came calling.The prosumer market has been our primary market up until now but were making a huge push into enterprise, says Callas. Enterprise markets in Europe, South America, Middle East is where were going rather than what we started off with  which was the prosumer market. Theyre still very important to us and thats why were doing what were doing with Blackphone [hardware] but in an organization youre going to have a wide mix of devices.We know that we are not going to have a company buy only Blackphone devices. There are going to be people who are not going to give up their iPhones. There are going to be people who are going to want some sort of other Android phone, so were providing the communications ecosystem and infrastructure that works on any of those devices, he adds.Blackphone started out last Januaryasajoint venture between encryptedcomms company Silent Circle, which offers secure voice and messaging apps such as Silent Phone and Silent Text, and Spanish smartphone maker Geeksphone.But last weekSilent Circle announced it had closed$50 million in new financing largely from new investors  and was spending some of that on buying out its joint-venture partner.Some of Geeksphones staff  including co-founder Javier Agera  aremoving over to the new wholly Silent Circle owned single, vertically integrated company, so its retaining mobile hardware expertise (with this ex-Geeksphone team based out of Madrid), even as it shifts focus to selling a mixed and integratedsuite of securehardware and software comms services to businesses.It makes it much easier on the company  it means theres one set of marketing, one set of sales, development and everything else is running together. Its huge savings for us, saysCallas of the consolidation. Bottom line, the project has proved more successful than the original partnersenvisaged  and the company now hasthe investment to think bigger, and restructure to focus onserving enterprise customers.Also today SGP announced a tablet-based secure audio conferencing system called Silent Meeting, again with enterprise users in mind. The encrypted software will also offer meeting control features such as visibility on whos dialed inand who hasnt  designed to make the most of the larger screen real estate of tablet hardware.Silent Meetingwill run on the forthcoming Blackphone+ tablet and also,as with all of SGPs comms apps, oniOS and Android hardware. So this is about Blackphoneriding thebring your own (BYOD) device trend which iscontinuing to remodel how enterprise IT is delivered.Were a communications company that has hardware and software and services. There are a lot of people who would like to have a privacy and security enhanced device like what were doing with Blackphone. But were also focusing on the communications aspect  because we are a secure voice, video, texting system as well that runs on any Android or iOS device, says Callas.We also have enterprise management software so that you can manage multiple accounts We have done a recent upgrade to our existing management software, well be doing more integration with enterprise tools, with corporate directories, with other things so that you provide cloud communications  thats primarily what weve been doing with Silent Circle  we have a cloud phone system that lets you do secure calls that are IP calls, and also we connect to the normal telephone system.Itwill also be working more with mobile device management (MDM) vendors and other enterprisetool makers so that we fit into the ecosystem that theyve got today, asCallas puts it.Is Blackphone seeking to reinventing Blackberry on a more consumer-friendly Android base? Callas resists the comparison, arguing that the enterprise space has moved on and needssecure comms solutions to match  i.e. which can flexibly integrate with mixed mobile estates, and support different types of device deployments.Blackberry was very much focused on email. Were focused on voice communications and texting primarily, he adds. The comparison between us and Blackberry has gone on a lot over the last year. And Blackberry themselves started it in many ways. I dont really think a lot about displacing Blackberry; I am looking at how I supply software and services that my customer needs.Im looking at what enterprises need in the next five years, not what they need in the last five years. Its a dramatically changed world from when Blackberry was the big player. And thats part of why theyre having problems now.There is still no Silent Mail product, of course, after Silent Circlepreemptively shuttered its previous encrypted email product, back in 2013, in the wake of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdens revelations about intelligence agency surveillance  although Callas confirmed it is continuing to work with Lavabits Ladar Levison on the DarkMail project. In the meanwhile its focus is squarelyon securing the other bits of mobile comms, including text messaging.Mobile devices have been taking over from laptops and desktops by doing the sorts of things people do all the time very well. They do small things very well rather than the kitchen sink, says Callas.What were looking at the way that we do the business is to make it so that the sorts of communications tasks that people do all the time they would rather do with Silent Circle on our services and our devices better than anyone elses.As well as increased enterprise concerns on the security front, with data breaches and hacks continuing to hit the headlines every week, Callas also pointsto a costadvantage that its hoping will appeal to business users given Silent Phoneand Silent Text routevoice calls and SMS away fromcellular networks and viaencryptedVoIP.We are providing a combination of very low cost international calling, and completely secure calling using the Internet, notes Callas. The advantage of this is that it means that if you have something like the Gemalto hack that weve heard about youre only using your phone for a TCP/IP or youre running it over Wi-Fi. That gives you a level of security that you dont get anywhere else because our voice system is running over IP and thus is protected  even from things like compromised SIM cards.