European news startup Blendle has already attracted funding from two of the biggest names in the media business  The New York Times and German publisher Axel Springer. Today its launching in the United States.Blendleis betting that people are still willing to pay for journalism, but instead of charging them on a subscription basis, its charging per article. On average, newspaper articles will cost somewhere between 19 cents and 39 cents, while magazine stories will cost between 9 and 49 cents.Publishers get to keep 70 percent of that money. And there are no ads.This might sound suspiciously like fantasies from years past that micropayments would save journalism. But there are a couple of key distinctions. The biggest one is the simplicity of Blendles approach  this is all content in the Blendle app and website, so once youve provided your credit card information, you dont have to worry about payment anymore. Blendle will just automatically charge you when you need to fill up your account.In addition, you should only be charged for stories that you actually like, rather than random clickbait that tricks you into reading. If you read an article and it wasnt what you were expecting, or if you just dont like it, you can get a refund. You doneed to selectthe reason for the refund, whether its because the price is too high or the article is too short or whatever, but that should only take a second.Blendle co-founder Alexander Klpping isnt suggesting that everyone who reads the news will embrace this. However, for people who do appreciate good journalism and want to support it, this is a pretty straightforward option.Oh, and if you click on a Blendle link throughsocial media or Google and youre not a member yet, you will need to enter your email address or connect to Facebook. But youll be able to read up to $2.50 worth of stories for free before you get charged for anything.To be clear, Blendle isnt completelythrowing open its doors in the US as of right now. Instead, its accepting sign ups for its beta testing program. And its already got some big publishers on-board, including The Times,Cond Nast, Time Inc., The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and New York Magazine.While our digital revenue is largely driven by advertising, Blendle gives us the opportunity to dip our toe into micropayments and potentially increase the share of reader revenue in the mix, saidCamilla Cho, New York Magazines executive director of business development and strategy, in the launch release.