Blockshas been a very long time in getting off the drawing board and still remains a prototype at this stage, some two years into development  but the modular smartwatch concepthas finally landed on Kickstarter,in what theU.K.-based startupis hoping will bethe last push to get their idea to market.Backers putting money down to pre-order thesmartwatch are being offered anestimated shipping schedule of May 2016 assuming the team canraise the $250,000, via Kickstarter, to fund thefirst roundof manufacturing.The current status of development is an engineering prototype (pictured below with the TC logo uploaded to it) for core testing, and separate design prototypes to testaesthetics, ergonomics and materials. Co-founder Ali Tahmaseb says the first test units embedded in the final design are planned for the end of December.The development of the Core has been done. Initial designs for Modules are done, components are selected. The Modules are made at prototype stage but the electronics for the Modules for the final product needs to be produced and tested, he adds, discussing whatdevelopment work is still outstanding at this stage.On the software side, the Android optimizations are mainly done. We have partnered up with a software company with very talented engineers previously in the Google Android team, that are working on even more optimizations and interactions. We have done an initial version of our launcher and menus but are still working on the User Interface.How confident is itofdelivering finished product by that May 2016shipping schedule? We have selected components and designs that are reliable, previously tested in other devices, and easy to manufacture. Our ODM has extensive experience in bringing very high quality consumer electronics to market. Our main innovation is in the industrial design, connectors, and communications which have been done by our team. Therefore, it is a good estimate, is how Tahmaseb couches it.We first covered Blocks back in March 2014 when it was demoing a video of its modular smartwatch concept. It wasactually founded inNovember 2013, by two students from Londons Imperial College, right after Motorola outed the Project Ara modular smartphone concept. (The latter also remains in development, in-house at Google, and the team behind that project recentlydelayed a planned pilot launch til next year so its amply clear modular consumer tech development is no cake walk).Blocks has a Taiwanese manufacturer (Compal) signed up to put the piece ofitsmodular smartwatch together, if all goes to crowdfunded plan. The device consists of a core module (the watch face), plus a series of individual strap links that each support additionalfunctionality, such as adding more battery capacity, or GPS navigation, or a heart rate monitor. The idea being the user gets to spec out their own smartwatch requirements.There are five initial modules in this first Kickstarter funding phase: the three aforementioned modules, plus NFC for contactless transactions, and an adventure module, which will output live readings foraltitude, pressure and temperature, to appeal tooutdoor sports types/hiking enthusiasts.The core Blocks watch face module can also function as a standalone smartwatch on its own  and is available to Kickstarter backers for $195, paired with a basic watch strap (adding yet another notifications-centric smartwatch option to what is already a crowded marketplace).But those wanting to take full advantage of Blocks modularity  which is really its USP at this late-to-market point  will need to shell out at least $250 (the early bird KS price) for the core module plus four additional modules that link together with a clasp to form the strap.The standard price for this module package is$275  which positions Blocksat the higherend of the notification-focused smartwatch market vs rivals such as Pebble(Pebbles latest model, the PebbleTime Round,starts at $250; although an entry level Pebble costs around $100). Price-point wise itsnot that muchcheaper than the more polished and premiumwrist-wear being designed in places like Cupertino andKorea. The Apple Watch starts at $349, for instance, whileSamsungs Gear S2starts at $300.Given its higher end price-point,Blocks seems likely toface a challenge to carve out a fan-basein such an alreadyfiercely contestedspace  unless it can convince people the novelty of modularity is worth taking a punt on a wearable newbie.There are other constraints here too. For instance, Blocks notes that peoplewith smaller wrists may find they cant accommodate itsstandard four modules, so  for some users  the devicescustomizablepotential will be constrained to just three modules (i.e. in addition to the core module). Although, on the flip side, the very large-of-wrist might manage to fitfive modules. (Blocks says backerswill be able to specify the functionality, and color, of anymodules they are pre-ordering at a later point.)These modules are apparently hot-swappable, as youd hope. The process of removing themis touted as easy enough to do when out and about on the go.It is plug-and-play, replaceable in seconds and no need to re-boot the device. No tool is required, the pin comes out by a small push of the finger, is how Tahmaseb describes the process.This summer the startupconfirmed it was using a modified version of Android Lollipop as the software base for the smartwatch, rather than the Google Wear platform. The deviceis, in any case, designed to be compatible with both Android and iOS mobile devices. The team is also hoping to build outan open hardware ecosystem and will be opening up to third party hardware makers wanting to build and sell their own Blocks modules, via a planned Blocks Store in future.We anticipate modules for gaming, sports, healthcare, the workplace, or even experimental ones for academic research, they note.Such ambitions areof course dependent on Blocks managig to build out a healthy user-base for itssmartwatch in order to support an ecosystem ofdevelopers, although they claim to have signed up some 1,500 interested devs ahead of the release of theirModule Development Kit. And claims to bealready working with some large tech companies on third party modules.On the apps front, an app dev kit will also be coming  at least a month before the device ships, according to Tahmaseb. He saysits making all the standard apps itself such as Calendar, Alarm, Clock, Reminders, Notes, Voice Memos, Activity Tracking, Battery Monitor, Module Manager, Notification Bar, etc. Andisalsointending to reach out to mainstream third party apps to try to ensure their waresare also available in time for launch  though no guarantees on that front of course.The theory of modularity is, on the surface, compelling. It offers the prospect of apparently outwitting the upgrade cycle, one small additional financialoutlay at a time. However, in practice, the cost of these partial upgradeswould have to be highly competitive to make it worth users while to get involved with the hassle of managing a mixed bagofbits and bobs.Add to that, the overall complexity of a modularproposition vs offering pre-packaged products with a clearly designed, ready-to-go out-of-box experience  suggests its something thats likely to appeal only to a niche segment of highly savvy tech users and/or peoplewho want a lot morecontrol over their kit than the average user. Mainstream appeal seems unlikely, although  if you want to stack up the modular contenders  a modular smartwatch does seeman easier sell than a modular smartphone.Another issue for modularity is robustness. Googles Ara has apparently been delayed because the electro-magnetic links that had been planned to fixmodules together werent strong enough to withstand theuser dropping the phone.Blocks team doesnt have to worry so much about users dropping theirproduct, given it will be mostly strapped to their wrists. But a smartwatchstill needsto be robust enough to withstand daily wear and tear  so the mechanism for securingand swapping out the modules is a veryvital link in the chain here. Bottom line: they really need to be confident of their engineering on that key piece.Ultimately, companies being responsible for conceiving and designing products with reuse and recycling built infrom the beginning as part of a circular economythats deliberately engineered to minimize waste and maximize resources is a more idealoverall goal than piecemeal per product modularity.But were not there yet. So, in the meanwhile, its up to the likes ofBlocksto bethinking outside the built-in-obsolescence box  by designing something the user can at least remake from a box of discrete bits.