Does the Bitcoin community need another wallet? Amsterdam-based BlockTrail reckons theres space for another player, despite some sizable and well-funded wallet entities already  such as Blockchain.info and Coinbase, to name two.The former has raised around$30 million to date, according to Crunchbase, and apparently racked uparound 4 million users; while the latter has some$107 million in fundingand circa2.5 million users.Other pretty visible walletsinclude Circle and Xapo, and there are of course scores of smaller wallet apps. (Albeit bit-playerwallet apps might not be the kind of place you want to store your Bitcoin wealth.)The new Dutchchallenger BlockTrail, which has been livein the Bitcoin analytics space since 2014  and is backed by 500,000 in seed funding fromits co-founder Lev Leviev (who also founded Russian Facebook rival Vk.com) has just launched a multi-platform Bitcoin wallet (iOS, Android and web) which it claims is more secure than some existingalternatives, owing to implementing multi-signature and HD wallet, which earlier-to-marketBitcoin walletsmay not have.Andwhich itsays is more in keeping with the decentralized spirit of Bitcoin  since users of itswallet create and store their own private keys, rather than trusting in itto be a central key control and coin repository  a la Coinbase, for instance.Update:NB: Coinbase does, however, offer a multi-signature vault product for pro users which also lets users keep their own encryption keys (although the vault has a withdrawal wait period so does not function in the same way as an instant-access wallet). Of the vault it notes: Coinbase has no ability to move funds (which means you are safe from Coinbase being hacked, going bankrupt, or anyone seizing your bitcoin). It also means that you as a customer have much greater responsibility in storing your backup key securely. If you lose this backup and forget your multisig password, Coinbase cannot help you recover your bitcoin. For this reason, we only recommend this feature for advanced users.The advantage of a decentralized wallet, according to BlockTrailco-founder and CEO Boaz Bechar, is that the BlockTrail wallet userretains control over theirBitcoins, and cant be locked out by a centralized service provider should that entitydecide they need to freeze your account, say, or be told to by the authorities. Or should they be hacked. Or else vanish into the ether taking your coins with them a la the Mt. Gox exchange saga.The nascentBitcoin landscapehas had more than its fair shareofWild West moments already.Of course some people might want the reassurance of trusting a large, well-funded entity that hasinsurance underwritingthe risks of hacking so the company can claim it will reimburse users for any lostBitcoins. But as BlockTrails co-founders point out, thats not so very different to trusting a traditional bank. Andif its centralized financial control youre after then why are you even involved with Bitcoin at all? (Well, presumably you might just be a currency trader trying to profitoff Bitcoin price fluctuations, rather than a decentralized cryptocurrency ideologue. But still, they have a point.)The whole reason why people getinto Bitcoin is to no longer be dependent on a bank, says BlockTrail CTO Ruben De Vries. The motto that I like about Bitcoin is be your own bank. You dont want to be part of a financial system that keeps you hostage when they own your funds.People [in the Bitcoin community] know us, and theres reason to trust our brand and use our apps. But in the case of Bitcoin you dont even need to trust us, so if we were to disappear people still own their Bitcoins. We cannot run away with their Bitcoins. And they could still use the app and restore their wallets even without us, which is really what makes us special, adds Bechar.A decentralized wallet does have some potential draw backs though, on the usability front  given the service cant carry out certain actions immediately as it does not hold the coins itself. So theres likely more back and forth between the wallet and the user when they want to do things with their coins, say like sending them to someone else or instantly selling them. Although BlockTrail argues that multi-signature and HD wallet now make it easier for a decentralized wallet to smooth out these sort of usability wrinkles.IsBlockTrail targeting itswallet at core Bitcoin community users, ortrying to cast a wider net to more mainstream consumers who might be thinking about starting todabble with BTC? Initially they say the target isBitcoin savvy types, perhaps developers who have already been using its Bitcoin API and blockchain explorer. But they add the aim is to reach out beyond existingwell-informed Bitcoin nerds  and are in fact touting UI simplicity as one of their differentiators, despite being a decentralized wallet service.We are interested in bringing Bitcoin to the masses, to the widest audience possible, says Leviev. For example one of the functionalities thats available and were going to improve is that you can send Bitcoins to anyone in your contact list even if they dont have a wallet downloaded.So initially you will basically get an SMS saying hey try out this wallet and get a Bitcoin that Id sending you, and thats how we think we can build from the existing community to a wider audience.Suchfeatures are possible on BlockTrails wallet from the get-go because its benefiting from later developments in Bitcoins infrastructure, according tothe team. Because we came in a little later than a lot of the other wallets weve been able to think about things better, so we also have a lot of these convenient functionalities in our app, argues de Vries.We differ from Blockchain wallet because we use different technology from them. They came around when HD wallet and multi-signature wasnt yet around We were able to start off our infrastructure built on multi-signature and built on HD wallet. And this offers users a better all around wallet and technology, saysBechar.The space is very fragmented. Theres not that many big players that offer a good technology for the user and we think theres space for a product like ours which offers better security and stays true to Bitcoins values by allowing users to keep their private keys, he adds.From an operations point of view, BlockTrails decentralized approach is clearly a lotleaner than the likes of Coinbase  the team is only around six staff at this stage (vs Coinbasesup to 250 circa 110 staff). And it also claimsit does not need to shell out such big sumson regulation and compliance, and sodoesnt need to have as much investor capital in the bank.[Coinbase] operates more like a bank. And we dont really offer these services. We will plan to offer them later on, through partners, but our operations are very different  even though the product might seem the same to a person who is not very familiar with Bitcoin, says Bechar.We dont have the kind of operation that requires compliance officers. And a large team of operations such as when you run a big exchange like Coinbase. They have multiple different products. Its a different operation.The regulation mostly comes into play when theres an exchange of some sort from a cryptocurrency to a fiat currency. Currently at the way were structured we dont provide this service. And while we do have plans to provide this were going to do it through third parties and partners that were working with, he adds.To be clear, although it does not have access to its users Bitcoins, BlockTrail is not zero knowledge  it can see your transactions and knows how many Bitcoin you are storing in the wallet. And given its wallet isa mobile phone app, its not the kind of place a clued up Bitcoin userwould want to store huge amounts of coins.If you have serious BTC wealth youd be storingthe majorityin an offline desktop client (with two-factor authentication enabled, and likely other limits  such as on which IP addresses can access it and where coins can be sent). So amobile Bitcoin wallet like BlockTrail would only be useful asa repository for a subset of your coins  say, if you want to havesome handy for trading/day to day use.But for less well-heeledBitcoin owners, Bechar reckons BlockTrail could be their sole wallet. I think most people will find theyre using one wallet, and when we get to the mainstream users theyre using one wallet and will have these spending limits [such as daily caps] to keep them more secure, he says.BlockTrail ishoping to grab 100,000 users by the end of the year. The team says it is open sourcing its wallet code too, tofurther bolster trust in its claims.Thewallet is free to use, with the business model focused on monetizing via  as Bechar puts it  added-value financial services, via third party partnerships with Bitcoin brokers. The aim being to make iteasier for newbiesto buy and sellBitcoins and for BlockTrail totake a small per transaction fee for thatadded convenience.Its not going to be an exchange, but its going to be an easier way to buy and sell Bitcoin, says Bechar. Were looking to do that through parties that already provide this functionality Theres brokers worldwide, for example here in the Netherlands theres a company that sells Bitcoins so we integrate with them. So were looking to do this through a global partnership network with brokers.The exchanges are the best place to buy your Bitcoins at the best rate but they require a lot of effort, of signing up, verifying your ID, verifying your address, then having to do bank transfers to them. Its a lot of hassle. Also it scares people because its just not an easy way. So using an exchange is really if youre a trader, adds de Vries.[Brokers] are a lot easier to use because you dont have to go through all the pain that most exchanges have. So we want to partner with these companies Every country usually has a few, and theyve all figured out how to work within their own regulations.He points out that working with local partners agains contrasts withCoinbases approach  since its taking on the challenge ofcomplying with all relevant Bitcoin regulations itself. Theyre really going [U.S.] state by state, having to deal with all the different rules in every state, spending millions on just all this crap basically and theyre barely moving to Europe because here again they have to go country by country figuring out what the rules are, how the banks are going to respond when they want to do this. So thats why if we can use local partners that allows us to get into that country quickly and without too much hassle.At this stage BlockTrail has a few such partnerships inkedin Europe, and none in the U.S. as yet, so will be looking to build out thispartnership network  assuming it can first galvanize a solid user-base behind anotherdecentralizedBitcoinwallet play.This article was edited to clarify that Coinbase does offer a decentralized vault product, in addition to a Bitcoin wallet in which it holds the users encryption keys