Online blogging platform Medium announced this week a new way to log into its website, without having to use a password. Instead, users will be able to enter in an email address, then click a link sent to them in order to sign in to the site. Previously, the company allowed its users to sign in usingtheir Twitter or Facebook credentials, but it received feedback from many who said they wanted an option to use Medium without having to authenticate with their social networking credentials. Or, in some cases,users said they didnt have a Facebook or Twitter account, and didnt want to create one just to use Medium.While many companies offer an email-based login alternative to signing in using social networking account information, Mediums approach is different. Its basically ditching the requirement for users to have to come up with a secure password, remember it, then enter it in each time they sign in to the blogging site.Thismethod, the company claims, is more secure.Notes Medium on a blog post announcing this change: Passwords are neither secure nor simple. Theyre hard to remember or easy to guess, everyone re-uses them (even though they know they shouldnt), and theyre a pain to type on mobile. They dont even keep you that safe.The password-free login is not replacing Facebook or Twitter authentication  those sign-in options remain available. But for peoplewho want to use their email to sign in or sign up for Medium, its the only other choice offered.The email login processitself issimple enough,if only a bit more inconvenient due to having to switch between browser tabs to access your inbox (or launch youremail client) then locate the email Medium has sent and click the provided link. If youre used to using a password manager like LastPass or Dashlane, for example, Mediums password-free login means youll have to go through extra steps to authenticate with its website in order to use anemail login. But for those who simply try to remember their passwords as they navigate the web, the password-free option is fairly clever and may even be a more welcome approach.This is not the first time a consumer-facing Internet company has offered a password-free login option. Instapaper, for example, implemented password-free registrations years ago. But more recently, most companies introducing password-free loginsdo so by taking advantage of SMS, not emailed links. In March, for instance, Yahoo rolled out a new way to sign in with its introduction of on-demand passwords, which are texted to users mobile phones as needed. This is perhaps more cumbersome than Mediums emailed links, however, because users would then have to type in the password they received via text intothe website, instead of just clicking a link.However, some security experts said that these sorts of SMS-based passwords werent safer than theone-time-passwords generated usingauthentication tokens or other strong authentication schemes likecryptographic smart cards, but are actuallyproviding users with the illusion of increased security. Similarly, experts will likely claim that emailed links arent significantly safer either, citing the fact that email itself isnt reallya secure form of communication for a variety of reasons  plus, anyone with access to your inbox could then click the link and take over your Medium account.That being said, Mediums emailed links arent active indefinitely  theyre only live for 15 minutes and can only be used once.The email option is live now on Medium.com, which offers a freeblogging service thatcompetes with sites like Tumblr, WordPress.com and Blogger. The company also notes the new password-free method will work today for users on itsiOS app, while Android support for email sign-in is coming soon.