Most businesses live or die on Google search rankings. If you cant crack the top few results, its almost impossible to consistently drive organic trafficto your site.Buthow does Google decide which sites appear at the top of the results list? It usesGooglebot, a proprietaryautomated software script to crawl every website on the Internet and create an indexthatbecomes the basis for search results. The problem is that this script is vague and mysterious, making it impossible forwebsite creators to truly optimize for Googlebot and other search engines crawlers.Enter Botify, acloud-based crawlerthat will examine your websiteand create a detailed SEO analysis with actionable feedback. The French-based company, which launched today onstage at Disrupt NY, has already raised $7.2 millionand on-boardedbig-name customers like eBay, BlaBlaCar and Expedia.But a few thingsmake Botify stand out from the hundreds of other SEO companies out there.First, the crawler is strong. The startup jokes that it holdsthe world record for most URLs crawled from a single website  150,000,000. Botify also will let site administrators specify the crawl speed  anywhere from 10 to over 200 pages per second. Why would a site want its content crawled slower? Because Botify can crawl so fast that it sometimes stresses a sites servers.Besides a strong crawler overall, Botify can also detectwhich pages on a site have been crawled by Google. When Google crawls a site, it leaves traces in a sites server logs. Once the site provides these logs to Botify, they can compare it with their own crawl to see if Google had visited a certain page.Adrien Menard, co-founder and CEO of the company, explained that when a page is not crawled by Google, it cant drive any traffic and therefore any revenue. Pages ignored by Google represent a huge potential of traffic and revenue.So, Botify takes its crawl data and creates a unique recommendation report for websites. But unlike most SEO consultants, Botify wont tell sites to add more content. Instead, the startup tells sites how to organize site content to make it more efficient.Specifically, this includes how to organizeinternal links,how to direct Google to crawl specific pages over others and how to optimize pages to decrease load times.This level of intense SEO work is probably better suited for larger websites, which Botifys pricing structure alludes to. The least expensive plan is over $500 a month for a bot to crawl 5,000,000 URLs, and enterprise plans can run over $10,000 per year.