Salesforce and Box announced a partnership today in which Salesforce customers can access Box content or content management services directly in Salesforce without switchingapplications or creating elaborate workarounds.The partnership involves two pieces. First of all, there isSalesforce Files Connect for Box, a plug-in that allows for a smooth integration of Box content directly inside of Salesforce. Whether on a smartphone or a computer, Salesforce users can access and shareBox files as part of their normal workflowinside Salesforce without having to explicitlymovebetween the two systems.Whats more, Box handles the file-access permission and securityand all of the underlying behavior inthe same way asworkinginside the stand-alone Box application  except its built right into the Salesforce interface.The second part is the Box SDKfor Salesforce, a software development kit that enables developers on the Force.com platform to build applications that embedBox content management features inside the application. For example,instead of building a file manager from scratch, something most developers are not equipped to do without great effort, theycan use the Box file manager inside the applications they are building.After announcingthe Box Developer editionin April, the company brought on former EMC executive Jeetu Patel to head up the effort. This announcement is part of expanding the Box Developer usage.Patel says he sees this partnership as part of a significant change in the way we have traditionally thought ofcontent management.The reason the content management market hasnt had standardization happen in a good way is that most systems dont allow content to be accessed from whatever youhappen to be using, he explained. This partnership demonstrates how two companies can work together and play to one anothers strengths, he said.We are leader in content and collaboration.Salesforce is the leader in customer success. It wouldnt make sense if we didnt make sure that the two systems interacted with one another. Its a naturalmotion, he said.Hes right.Back in the1990s companies boughtproprietary on-premises enterprise software and sharing data between applicationswas a huge challenge. Today with the cloud, companies can collaborate much more easily and thats good for customers.What we are showing you is only possible in cloud world. It would be impossible in an on-prem environment, Patel said.While Salesforce works with other content companies, this partnership makes sense for the cloud CRM vendorbecause it makes life easier for its customers. By integrating the two products, you can put the contentwhere the customer needs it. It unlocksit across the ecosystem,Mike Stone, Salesforce SVP of marketing for Community Cloud told TechCrunch.The Box SDK for Salesforce is available today on Github. The other piece will pilot in February with a target release date sometime next summer.