Branded.me* isnt just a website builder anymore  its adding tools allowing users to connect with other users and publish their own content.CEO Nick Macario said the sites goal is to be the creative platform for professionals  in other words, its where professionals can take full control of how they present themselves to the online world. And with the new features, Macario said its becoming a fun, fresh alternative to LinkedIn.The big question is whether most people even want their own homepages anymore. Dont our Facebook/Twitter/LinkedIn etc. profiles serve the same function? Macario said that with Branded.mes customization, you can both focus on whats important to you and do more to differentiate yourself (see, for example, Macarios own page), which could be increasingly important in a job landscape where people are changing jobs more frequently and theres a bigger shift towards freelancing.And the new features could help you do even more in that vein  Macario said the updated Branded.me is about reading and writing, allowing users to start blogging on their pages.Of course, there are countless other blogging platforms out there, including the one Im using to publish this post. But in the same way that Branded.me is built for people who never even thought about creating a web page about themselves, Macario is hoping the new blogging tool will get other people writing who may have been intimidated or theyve never even thought about writing.Part of the way Branded.me tries to accomplish that is by making the editor simple and easy to use. In addition, it helps you avoid the terror of starting out with a blank page with an ideas feature, where you can quickly and easily jot down ideas for posts, wherever you area.In addition to blogging, Branded.me is introducingother social features, like the ability to follow and direct message other users. The serviceis available in both free and paid versions.
* Yeah, Im not crazy about the name, since I hate the whole idea of building a personal brand. But at this point, I accept that the battle is lost.