Uber has set the standard for mobile transportation apps, allowing customers to order, pay for and view their drivers location right from their mobile device. Now, a new startup called Bringgwants to offer a similar level of visibility for any delivery-based service or those with drivers en route  whether thats a mom-and-pop dry cleaner making their daily runs, restaurants making deliveries, or even service technicians heading out on calls.The company was founded in 2013 by Raanan Cohen (CEO), the former founder and CEO of MobileMax; and Lion Sion (CTO), previously the CTO of GetTaxi and Clarizen.com. Bringg has been operating in a beta period over the past six months, testing the service with a handful of customers representing different types of businesses, including food-delivery servicesLish and Zuppler, for example. Its now launching to the public.Explains Sion, the two co-founders had discussed the idea for Bringg as far back as two years ago while lamenting over the fact thatthe revolution that came about withtransportation apps, like Uber or GetTaxi, hadnt yet translated itself into other areas.Why is it that when Im ordering pizza for my kids, we dont know when the delivery person is coming, exactly?, Raanan complained to his friend.Recalls Sion, he said, why isit that the same solution you have withtaxis  why is it not yet out there for others?So the two began working to develop a way for any company to integrate an on-demand service offering an Uber-like user experience into their own products  web, mobile or otherwise. With Bringg, the idea is not to create consumer-facing mobile applications similar to Ubers, but instead to allow a business to communicate with customers about the status of their drivers whereabouts however they see fit.Businesses can opt to use Bringgs web-based interface, itsAPIs and mobile SDKs for iOS, Android and JavaScript, or any combination they like. For example, a company could choose to send out an email or SMS containing a link that popped open an HTML5 web page that showed the driver en route in real time. Or the company could choose to integrate Bringgs SDK into its own native mobile app, if one already existed.Bringgs technology stops short of handling order processing and payments. However, its able to integrate with a number of point-of-sale solutions, as well as online and offline ordering solutions, notes Sion. The service is sold on a software-as-a-service basis to customers starting at $10 per month per driver. A $20 per month per driver option is also available, which allows businesses to further customize the service  for example, branding it with their own logos or customizing the SMS messages customers receive.Meanwhile, on the business owners side, Bringg offers reporting features that help them gain insight into their deliveries, as theyre able to see things like how long deliveries take, or distances traveled, and more. Businesses can also manage and dispatch drivers, and track them in real time.During the companys beta period, Bringg found that they didnt have to sell businesses on the concept of what they were offering, which is something that surprised them, says Sion.We thought wed still be trying to convince people that on-demand is happening and its something you need to do, he says. But it turns out, everybody gets itit was very easy to get people to join. The company hasnt yet done much PR or marketing, but already has 100 developers working with its products.People just heard about us and came, Sion says.Headquartered in Israel, but now expanding to New York, Bringg is a 13-person team and is backed by $2.5 million in funding from strategic partnerITURAN,a fleet-management company.