Bignews today for Brit + Co., the lifestyle media and e-commerce businessaimed at people interested in crafty projects. The startup has confirmed that its raised $20 million in funding, and it has acquireduser-generated DIY app Snapguideto add more media to its platform  or, asCEO and founder Brit Morin told TechCrunch, to build out our community with more content.The terms of the Snapguide deal  which isBrit + Cos first acquisition  have not been disclosed but we understand it is an asset sale, covering the companys website and app(now renamed Snapguide by Brit + Co), its network of users, its trove of DIY guides numbering 100,000, and the technology platform to create more.Only one employee is coming over with the deal, Snapguides community manager.Brit + Co says it now has12 million monthly unique users, growing threefold year-over-year. That number includes not just visitors to the main Brit + Co site but also social followers. Indeed, thebrand has become something of a buzzy and credible fixture on social sites that share similar demographics around the coveted, tech-friendly, 20-30-something female demographic. Morin says that its Pinterest posts are on average repinned 50,000 times daily.Brit + Co has come into its own amid a bigger trend around homemade, locally and responsibly sourcedproducts andthe widerrise of the maker movement  wherepeople are tapping into technology to build, cook, sew and generally spend just as much if not more time creating things as just simply consuming them.There is a cultural shift happening today, Morin says. People wanthandmade things, they sometimes want to make thingsthemselves, and they want to leverage technology to do it. We are tryingto straddle both sides of that world  technology and the maker movement. Were following all the trends in areas like 3D printing, for example,andwe are really good at making that accessible toa mainstream audience.She saysthat this is different from the more open-ended nature of something like YouTube or of Etsy. She calls the latter a very democratic site for selling goods. We are like the magazine version, very curated, where we choose all the makers and content. Morin thinks of her sitemore as Houzz for DIY. I think of Brit + Co as a slightly younger, more fashionable Martha Stewart rival  fitting considering that Susan Lyne, the former CEO bothofMartha Stewart and Gilt Groupe, is nowjoining Brit + Cos board of directors.Morin credits her own interest in DIY as the initial spark for Brit + Co. A former Googler, shedthoughtaboutfoundinga health startup, but after makingher own wedding invites (shes married to investor and Path co-founder Dave Morin), she realised she could put her own interests and passions to work.The fundraising being confirmed today was first made public inanSEC filing in May, which notedthat Brit Media raised $23 million. Now we have more of the actual details.The round was led by Intel Capital, with participation also from UK media group DMGT (the UK media group that owns both the Daily Mail and Elite Daily), Liberty Media, Oak Capital and angels includingJim Fielding, who has a long track record as an exec bothin retail and entertainment. (The extra $3 million noted on the Form D, incidentally, was a bridge loan from last autumn.)This latest round brings the total funding raised by Brit Media (as the main company is called) to $27.5 million. In line with the growing financial expansion, itis also naming Nicole Emanuel in the new role of CFO. She comes fromSwarmMobile, and before that was the CFO of Refinery29.TheSeries B funding will be used in part to invest indeveloping therevenue-generating parts of the business, Morin tells me, effectively building out ways for both Brit + Co. and its audience to make more money.Our core mission is to inspire our communityto be more creative, and we saw that we could also help them make a living, she says.This will take a couple of forms. Since announcing an Etsy-style marketplace about a year ago for people to sellhand-made productsthrough the site, Brit + Co has been growingits e-learning business, and has now sold15,000 classes and kits and is seeing a lot of traction.The e-learning fuels commerce on two levels: first, people are paying to take the classes themselves; and second, Brit + Co is bundling and selling supply kits to accompany these classes  for example, a calligraphy set to use with an online calligraphy tutorial.While today Brit + Co. is making the majority of its sales from advertising on the site, Morin says that the classes and kits are growing much faster and she expects revenues from themto surpass ad sales by next year, although the company is not disclosing any revenues at the moment.Interestingly,Brit + Co appears to be developingits own native content strategy, too.Morin says it is working on betterways of matching up its maker communitywith businesses, where creators will work with a specific product or brand to develop a story or video (or in the case of Snapguide, perhaps a how-to slideshow). In turn, Brit + Co will take a revenue share if it can help a maker get a content sponsorship.(This format will soundfamiliar tothose of you who read food or craft blogs, where many independent bloggers already tie up with brands in this way.)As part of this funding round,Lisa Lambert, managing director and vice president of Intel Capital, is joining the board along with Lyne. Additionally, there will be a new subcommittee on the board withDaily Mail North America CEO Jon Steinberg, former Apple exec Ron Johnson and Fielding.Brit Morin has earned a position as one of the most forwardthinking entrepreneurs of her generation, said Lambert in a statement. With its powerful combination of media and ecommerce, Brit + Co is bringing more women and girls into the fastgrowing maker movement, which fits perfectly into the goals of our new Diversity Fund.As for Snapguide, its not entirely clear why the startupdecided to sell. After apromising startin 2012, it seems it didnt manage to grow as fast as its founders  Yahoo alum Daniel Raffel and Google alum Steve Krulewitz  had hoped it would.Snapguide hadraised $10 million from investors including Crunchfund (TC founder Michael Arringtons VC fund), Index Ventures, Slow Ventures (Morins husbands firm), SV Angel and Atlas.Snapguidealso had its share of M&A rumors. In fact, wed actually been tipped that italso had an offer from Google just prior to Brit + Co. Whatever happened there, at least now the leastthe techand product will live on.