Canadian startup Bubl, maker ofa 360-degree camera for capturing spherical panoramas, has closed a $3.5 million (CDN$4.6 million) seed round, led by Samsung Ventures and J-Tech Capital, with other unnamed investors also participating in the round.The company has been beavering away at spherical video cameragizmo for several years now, kicking off a crowdfunding pitch back in 2013, and going on to raise almost CDN$350,000 via Kickstarter to deliver on founder (and former CEO) Sean Ramsays original vision of a devicethat could immerse the userin an all-anglesview.Thetetrahedral design of Bubl allows for zero blindspots, with camera lenses overlapping to ensure the resulting multiplex image can be stitched into a perfect sphere  for viewing on a mobile device, or indeed in some form of compatible VR headset.The startupwas originally aiming to ship cameras to Kickstarter backers by May 2014. In the event it took rather longer than that; it only fulfilledshipments to backers last month. BublsDan Mills confirmed its been a longer dev journey than originally thought. You do underestimate the piece thatsrequired to bring it beyond a prototype, he tells TechCrunch. That last piece takes a while.Founder and former CEO Ramsay has now movedacross to a purely product development focused role, and Bubl is looking to appoint a new CEO  with Mills as interim in the meanwhile.He says the seed funding will be used for moving operations forward  both on the software and hardware side, providing capital for manufacturing, post-crowdfunding. (Its currently offering a waitlist for its next batch of Bublcams.)Last year, talking to TC, Ramsay raised to prospect of a building a more mainstream consumer targetedversion of its camera  with a cheaper price-tag than its current $799 offering  but Mills nowsaysits focus remains entirely on that current pro-price product for the foreseeable future.So whos been buying Bublcamsthus far? Immersive 360-degree video remains an interesting if gimmicky technology application in search of a killer mainstream app  unless you imagine VR headsets are going to replace flatscreen TVs as the average consumers viewing medium of choice. Which seems rather unlikely.Mills says the first wave of Bublcam buyers has been a mix  including from people wanting it for personal photography (to enhance how they photograph and share moments), tothose also interested in virtual reality.He notes Bubl is not working on any specific integrations with particular VR headset makers at this point (Samsung has been dabbling here of course, with the Gear VR headset)  rather the aim is for their hardware and softwareto be flexible enough to supportlots of potential uses and other devices.Were not going on a specific VR trajectory. Our player supports output into split screen VR. Were not partnering with any specific hardware VR products, he notes.I dont think Id like to predefine a market. The camera really is the enabler. And we need to make our software versatile so people can use it as they wish It could fit well into [the VR] realm.. but were not trying to shoehorn ourselves inOf gaining Samsung Ventures as an investor, Mills adds: We hope that opens things up to a lot of technology and resources that they have. Well see how that develops.