Three-year-old Bugsnag has just nine employees. Still, the company, which has developed an automated crash-detection platform, already counts 22,000 software developers at thousands of companies  including Slack, VMware, GitHub, Docker, Coinbase, and CBS Interactive  as its customers.Bugsnag also has the backing ofBenchmark, which just led a$7.2 million Series A roundof fundinginSan Francisco-based startup,in what sounds like a competitive deal. We had options, says Bugsnags cofounder CEO, James Smith. (Earlier investor Matrix Partners also participated in the round.)Whats so interesting about the company, aside from the giant market for debugging software that its chasing  a marketwhose spend has been estimated in the hundreds of billions of dollars?Broadly speaking, says Benchmarks Eric Vishria, Bugsnag is operating in a world where software development has become critical to virtually every company on earth and, as a result, is creating two opportunities: one for people to write software and another for companies to help those software developers do their jobs better.The latter isnt easy, says Vishria, who has joined Bugsnags board and calls developers a tricky bunch who dont react well to things being forced on them. Indeed, Vishria says, when Benchmark saw Bugsnags adoption numbers, and, importantly, developers paying for its software, the venture firm knew Bugsnag had clearly hit a nerve.Bugsnag which offers several tiers of service, including everything from a$29-per-month, per-seat self-service plan, to undisclosed rates forenterprises with specific requirementsisnotwithout competitors. Crittercism and Crashlytics are just two other options developers can choose.Smith insists that Bugsnag has an edge over other products in a variety of ways, however, including that its a full-stack error-monitoring package. What that means: it detects errors in web andmobile apps, as well as inevery majoring programming language and framework, all of which make it easier to understand  and fix  a crash that happens in one part of the software stack but impacts another, seemingly disconnected part of the stack.Bugsnag also helps its customers with their log-inlogging data, grouping together errors that theyre seeing, so companies know when, say, one million crashes are caused by the same line of code, or that a particular kind of crash happened just once last week but is now creating crashes 25 times an hour. Were trying to surface the most important problems without inundating [customers] with [unnecessary noise], says Smith.Bugsnag has also endeareditself to developers throughbasic work flow integration. Software teams are already using team chat, for example, so Bugsnag will post alerts to a teams chat room.Smith says he and cofounder Simon Maynard, who were college classmates at the University of Bath, settled on developing Bugsnag owing to their own respective experience with bugs. As an enterprise software consultant working with telecoms, defense, and finance companies, Maynard saw all manner of confusing computer errors. For his part, Smith was a financial software engineer who once built a foreign exchange for users to buy and sell dollars, pounds, and euros. Though it saw a billion dollars in tractions in its first week, it started crashing soon after and it wasnt immediately clear why.It was astressful period at the time for Smith.Benchmark views it as a selling point, though. These are incredible guys with a very visceral understanding of the problem,says Vishria. Itisnt an accident that theyve gotten the nuances of their product right. Theyve lived it.Bugsnaghadpreviously raised $1.4 million in seed funding, led by Matrix Partners.