
Mikita Mikado is a software engineer, entrepreneur and co-founder and CEO of PandaDoc.The No. 1 problem of almost every Silicon Valley entrepreneur is finding engineers. Developers in San Francisco are similar to apartments in San Francisco  really expensive, hard to get and even harder to keep. On top of a six-digit salary, bonuses and large stock packages, youve got to offer a super-duper cool office, some unusual perks, etc.It doesnthave to be this way.Our engineering office is offshore, and were really happy about it. We have close to 0 percent down time, timely releases and an amazing product. However, moststartups that go offshore for their development needs fail. What is amazing to me is that the founders of these companies make the same mistakes over and over again.Building an offshore development team that doesnt suck is hard, but doable.When you go offshore, youre more likely to have to deal with another culture. Its impossible to work with people you dont understand (literally and figuratively).If you want to hire engineers to work for you remotely, you have to fly there, meet in person and become friends. You better spend a few weeks, or even months, workingwith them on their home turf. You need to first make sure they actually speak English and you can communicate with them easily. Then, build trust and understand their culture.Folks in Eastern Europe are going to be super blunt. Sometimes, too blunt for their own good. A developer from Russia will definitely say that some mediocre code is shit when it is not shit, it is just mediocre.On the contrary, folks from India or Southeast Asia are more likely to say the same code is OK to avoid a confrontation. And both developers could be fantastic to work with  you just need to learn to understand them, and you can only do that with real-life interaction.Airfare is cheaper than the cost of a bad hire.Regardless of where they are based, your first engineers need to be paid fair market salaries. You dont want them to be stressed out about money and take on other projects. However, the salary should not be excessive, and incentives should be in the form of stock.There are a few reasons that you should offer stock, but well start with a dark one. Here is what could happen: They write crappy code to deliver features quickly because they treat your business as just another client/job. Once the code behind the product becomes spaghetti, they slow down, you get frustrated, they leave and your startup is screwed.Why would they leave? A) It was no fun to work with crappy code; B) You bitched about them not delivering. If they have stock as an incentive, theyll make sure their code will (at the very minimum) work for as long as theyre vesting.The lighter reason is that most talented engineers dont care about money as much as, say, salespeople (not that this is a bad thing, they just typically have a different set of motivations).Engineers tend to be more creative and care a lot about the products they build, so they need to believe in what theyre doing and need to be a part of it on paper. Otherwise, theyll get bored really quickly. Giving your engineers stock is a sign of trust and appreciation. If you want them to treat your product like their baby, you have to make your company their baby, too.Finally, stock incentivizes engineers to stay with the company longer. Software developers are creators. Many creators get bored once their creature is mostly done. Most products get mostly done from an engineering perspective once you launch an MVP.Past that phase, there is just maintenance, integrations and other things that are no fun for creators. You need to make your engineers understand that theyre not only creating your product, but also creating your business. That and only that will make them stay for years.There is a reason it only takes me a couple of Facebook posts to line up great Belarusian talent. We promoted the heck out of PandaDoc from the start. I was interviewed by all the major tech publications in Belarus, we participated in a bunch of startup events and sponsored a number of them. Even in San Francisco, wepositioned ourselves as a startup from Belarus. And while I do care about the startup ecosystem in my motherland it was not the sole reason. Im a capitalist pig, after all :).From Day One we were actively building a hiring brand in Belarus. We want to be the go-to place for engineers if and when they want to join a startup. We want to make our engineers proud of the fact that they work at PandaDoc. Folks in smaller dev communities talk to each other all the time.Companies in Silicon Valley spend millions to build hiring brands; we spent a few thousand. Sponsoring events there is 20x cheaper. Journalists there jumped at the chance to interview a Big Shot from Silicon Valley, which Im not, but that was OK with them. Journalists are great at making things up.Another way to pimp your hiring brand offshore is to bring a piece of Silicon Valley culture with you, AKA perks. No, you dont have to freeze their eggs. But you should absolutely treat your offshore team members the same way you treat your HQ team. If the HQ team goes to Napa, make sure something similar happens for your offshore developers in Ukraine or Bangladesh. Im sure they have their own kind of Napa. Oh, by the way, it will also be 10x cheaper than Napa.Bringing some pieces of Silicon Valley to where you hire your engineers is really important. But what is even more important is bringing some pieces of India or Belarus or Philippines to Silicon Valley. By pieces, I mean your developers. You should fly them out to your HQ. Why? First of all, your team members will get to know each other and theyll be able to communicate more easily in the future by building in-person rapport.Secondly, your engineers will be able to better understand the business side of things, which is hugely important, especially if youre an early stage company. Thirdly, your engineers (depending on where they are coming from) will be able to see a more developed country with more advanced business processes. Bringing them on-site will help them feel that theyre a part of this other economy, despite being thousands of miles away.For this one Ill probably get my ass kicked the next time I fly to Belarus. There are a lot of agencies there with startup clients. But as a current founder and former owner of an agency that worked with a bunch of startups, Ive got to say that if youre a startup, dont outsource the development to some third-party agency. Hire individual engineers and build your own team.It doesnt matter how good the agency is or where theyre based: India or the United States. Building your product via a third-party is a fail trap.First of all, you wont be able to compensate properly and get high-quality engineers if there is a third-party involved, because you dont have a direct relationship. Yes, you can find out what this third-party pays them and ask to raise their salaries. But how would you give stock or perks to someone who works for an agency?Secondly, most agencies assign project managers that are supposed to be intermediaries between clients and engineers. This scenario might work if youre not planning to innovate and iterate on your product. If thats the case, then youre not a startup and Im really sorry about the time youve just wasted reading this article.If you are a startup, Im sure that you believe that every team member has to innovate and have a say in product development. Having a project manager in between makes bottom-up innovation really hard.Finally, going through an agency is going to be more expensive. Youre going to pay 50 500 percent more. Spend this money on the airfare and pay for your devs.Having an intermediary just makes it impossible to do all the things Ive written in this article. To me, going through a third-party agency is equal to doing a half-assed job on your end.Some founders who outsource, especially to third-world countries, treat their offshore employees there as third-class citizens. If youre one of these founders, you can be sure the universe (or those developers) are going to fire back. Karma is a bitch, after all.Heres the thing: People dont choose to be born in a place with a fucked-up economy. And you didnt choose to be born in a place with an excess of capital. It just so happened that you got lucky and they didnt.If you want to be successful building an offshore development team, treat your developers there the same way as the ones you work with locally. Actually let me rephrase that: If you want to be successful anywhere, doing anything, you need to treat people nicely. Amen.