Telecom giant Singtel is planning to beat Netflixto the punch in Asia after it announced it haspartnered with Sony Pictures and Warner Brothers to introduce a video streaming service inthe region.The companies said that HOOQ  which is described as a joint venture startup  will offer Hollywood movies and U.S. TV shows alongside domestic content from India, China, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, Korea and Japan. In total, HOOQ will begin withan initial catalog of over 10,000 shows and movies.Theres no specific launch date, but Singtel saidthe service will go onlinein the firstquarter of 2015, initially inIndonesia, Philippines, India and Thailand. From there, the telecom giant is promising a progressive rollout to other countries where ithas business  other Singtel markets includeSingapore, and Australia.Also lacking from the initial announcement is an indication of price, but  interestingly  it looks like customerswont be limited to paying via credit cards, as is the case with Netflix. Singtel said it will use its billing capabilities in countries where credit card ownership remains low, so that may mean customers can pay as part of their post-pay contract, and perhaps even using prepaid credit.The timing of the launch is interesting because Netflix has not arrived in Asia Pacific yet. The U.S. company is preparing to launch in Australia and New Zealand in March ofthis year, after which it islikely to foray into Asian markets, soHOOQ willalmost certainly be first inmany parts ofthe region. You could see that as a first mover advantage, or a move that is good for the industry in general because it raises awareness of OTT video services in nascent markets.Nonetheless, Peter Bithos, the CEO of HOOQ, believes that there is an immediatedemandfor Netflix-like video streaming services in Asia.We are starting this venture to change the way people across Asia view entertainment. Today, across developing markets, there is limited access to quality entertainment, streamed directly to the screen of ones choice. Its either illegal, high cost or difficult to get. We aim to fix that, he said in a statement.Piracyand lack of awareness are often cited as major barriers for licensed streaming services in Asia but, with two content companies and one telcoon board, HOOQ is no bootstrapped startup. It could use Singtels network of operators which reach a total subscriber base of over 500 million customers  and vast resources to gain traction from the get-go.No doubt well be hearing more updates from HOOQ very soon.