Butterfleye is a hardware startupaimingto build a connected home security camera thatavoids coming across ascreepily prying.In ourover-surveilled digital times, putting an Internet-connected eye in your home couldmean opening a peephole to unknownthird parties. Or create a temptation for domesticspying. Which isnot the definition of relationship trust, folks. Ergosecurity and privacy are key considerations for any startups working in such a sensitive area.Butterfleye is tackling the privacy challenges inherent in offering to sell people a remotely controlledwireless lensby putting aprocessing layer on the devicewhich it says can run analytics tointelligently detect who or what is in framebefore recording and uploading any footage.So, for instance, it could decidenot to record the person whos just walked into the room if thatperson actually livesin the house, for instance. Orthe family pet is just being its usual, boisterous self rolling around on the living room carpet.Its oneway the team isaiming to set its connected hardware apart from existing rivals in the space  such as (the now Google-owned)Dropcam/Nest Cam.There is image algorithm analytics. There is audio analytics. The microphone can recognize certain sounds. For example dogs barking, kids crying. And were working on a glass breaking algorithm, says Butterfleye founder and CEO Ben Nader, explaining the startups patent-pending Activity Based Recording tech. Then on the video side we have a technology like face detect, we have a technology like pets and human detect. And learning algorithms to learn oh this home has a pet. And its normal for a pet to move around the house and not have any alerts.There have been some [other companies]who have been trying to play with this by doing some analytics in the cloud but the key value is doing the analytics at the camera level, before youve uploaded hours and hours of video, he adds.If you need to upload all the video into the cloud to be able to tell oh the living room is empty  dont record youve already recorded. And how do you know when to wake up when something does happen?This on-device processing layer will allowusers to customize the system to preserve the privacy of particular family members, according toNader. It also means the device will onlyrecord selectively  capturing notable events, not everything, or even every motion  thereby minimizing the quantity of footage generated.The user will then get a feed of specific recorded events pushed to the companion app, rather than having to wade through hours of nothing to see here/family life as usual footage.The non-subscription version of the service will also only save footage for a rolling 24 hours, so data retention is minimized. Although Butterfleyes business model will also allow users to upgrade to save footage for longer: either for a week, or 30 days, if they pay an additional monthlysubscription ($9.95 or$29.95 respectively). The rolling 24 hour storage is included in the price of the hardware. Andup to five Butterfleye cameras can be linked withone monthly subscription. (More can be linked for slightly higher monthly fees.)The camera does also have a real-time viewing option, whereby users can remotely log in to check out/peek in onwhats going on at home. This will switch on a light on the camera to signify to anyone in the vicinity thatsomeone is watching.It can also be configured to send push notifications to any other users who are registered onthe account(multiple users can be supported)if their phone is in the vicinity of thecamera, as another warning that someone is actively watching. (Because, yknow, an LED can easily be taped over)The camera also includesathermal imaging sensor to help distinguish people vsobjects, and iBeacon tech to identify users smartphones as a furthersignal to help the camera determine who is walking into frame, and whether it needs to record or return to standby.Nader notes that a face might not always be clearly in shot, so using more than oneidentification signifier is aimed atreducing the number of false positives (and, if correctly configured by the user, helping to preserve family members privacy).Other features he flags up: the camera is wireless and battery operated, with a rechargeable battery that canapparently lasttwo weekson a single charge. (Assuming, presumably, that the user isnt spending hours per day remote peeking into their living room).On the security side, hesays videos are encrypted locally on the camera prior to being uploaded. Videos are encrypted using AES 128bit encryption.Theyre also using Secure Shell Protocol to secure the connection between the camera and the cloud service. (NB: they do hold an encryption key so are not offering a zero access architecture  at least not currently.)The camera records at full 1080p HD, and has 12 hours worth of internal storage  so it can also storeclips locally if/when the Internet connection fails, syncing footage to the cloud once connectivity is restored.What this device does for the consumer is it gives them peace of mind, saysNader. Youre going out of town and you want to make sure the landlords coming in, or you want to make sure the gardeners coming in Or you want to make sure that packages got dropped off.My personal use-case was Ive had multiple break ins into my garage and I couldnt find a simple, easy to set up camera to put up there, that didnt need a power cord plugged in, that could work reliably and was easy to set up, and you didnt need to pay for some professional installation.Butterfleye is kicking off an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign today, aiming to raise $100,000 to get the product to market by December. The Butterfleye camera will retail at $249, although early Indiegogo backers can pick one up for $199.Nader stresses the team isvery far along the development road at this point  so its more a case of turning tocrowdfunding as a wayto find early adopters and garnera little feedback whilethey put the finishing touches to the companion apps.The startup was founded at the end of 2013, and has been funding development thus far viaangel investment  including $1 million via AngelList, led byJason Calacanis.The total raised at this point is $1.6 million.With the angels money we were able to finish the product. Now literally we are three months away from shipping the product. The hardware is done, our contract manufacturer is all selected and finalized in Taiwan, the prototypes we have in our office are all coming from the final manufacturing so we thought now is the right time [for the crowdfunding campaign], says Nader.Theres a huge value in building an early adopter community, and there are still many things  specifically on the software side, that we could get feedback from. And fix and adjust. So this crowdfunding Indiegogo campaign is a fantastic platform to build that audience for us.