Former Economist journalist Daniel Tudor is one half of the founding team behind London-based crowdfunded journalism startup Byline, along with CEO Seung-yoon Lee.Journalism is clearly in big trouble. The business of the news media. And we think we have a model that has potential and could really help certain forms of journalism  niche topics, local journalism, investigative journalism, impassioned campaign-type journalism, war reporting perhaps even, says Tudor, laying out the Byline pitch, after I askwhether its building the future of journalism.In essence the Byline missionaimsto support and foster the opposite of clickbait, listicles, sponsored content, native ads  the crap, as he terms it, whichthe current ad-supported media business modelshavespawned. And continue to spawn.Byline launched an MVP back in April, with a handful of handpicked journalists pitchingreaders for funding viathe platform. Its just now launching its beta proper. Monthly unique visitors are around 300,000 at this early stage, according toTudor. The team has raised $850,000 in seed funding, led by Korean Internet and messaging companyDaum Kakao founder Jae-woong Lee, andinvestor Nicolas Berggruen.Writing for Bylinesplatform remains invite only at this point  with more than 20 writers and outlets signed up so far, including the likes of Julie Bindel, Norman Finkelstein and Alex Andreou. Tudorsfocus for recruitingwriters has been those who are strong on particular topic  with the wider push being to crowdfundtopic-based journalism (its not, obviously, a platform for breaking news or general news journalism): soAndreou, for instance, writes on the Greek crisis. And Bindel covers feminist issues.Stuff that we think is both fundable and interesting, effectively, is how Tudor sums up the content focus at this stage  given Byline is still approaching journalists itself. He gives the example of Bindel as a writer who divides opinion. Just from a perspective of adding something new to the conversation its worthwhile having someone like that around anyway, also it is quite fundable because there are people who really like her, he says.Having a very well-defined topic is important, when it comes to people who write. So rather than a journalists whos very general we just want somebody who will focus on topic X because we find that unless youre a very famous journalist then people are more interested in that topic.The longer term vision is to open Bylineup to any writersto scale the platform (although it may stagger that by first allowingByline journalists to invite other journalists), but likely not til early next year. Thebusiness model will be to take a 15 per cent commission on funding achieved through the platform. Again its waiting before flicking that switch, as the team works to see whether it can build something sustainable.Bylineofferstwotypes of crowdfunding: exclusive projects, where the journalist pitches a discrete project that will be delivered if it gets funded (much like Kickstarter); and columns, where the journalist is supported to write ongoing articles on a particular topic by an ongoing subscription from the people who want to read their articles. Theres no set or fixed amount readers have todonate. And theres no set time period for their subscription. But the idea is to be able to offer what could amount to a regular wage for freelancers, says Tudor.Early funding successes Bylinepoints to includeAndreous coverage of the Greek crisis reaching 1,000 monthly subscriptionwithin two weeks of launch; Finkelsteinraising $30,000 within 10 days for a series of articles onAmnesty International and their role in the Israel-Palestine conflict; andBindel raising6,500+ to investigate the global sex trade.If you can get a few hundred people paying a small amount of money each month then they can effectively live from what theyre doing or make a good second income, adds Tudor. When youve got local news or niche topics that can scale because every city, every town, or every little geeky topic, or every area of the news could potentially have an audience like that  a few hundred people who are prepared to pay for something, rather than the Buzzfeed way of we need 10 million people to click on these cute pictures of bunny rabbits.Its not the only startup playing in this area of course  theres alsoYC-backed Beacon, along with others likeSpot.us, not to mentiongeneral crowdfunding platforms like Kickstarter and Indiegogo. Theres also Blendle, chasing a pay-as-you-go model thatuncouples published journalists from publications by gettingreaders to pay for only the articlesthey read (although that model supports existingpublishers, rather than backingindividual writers). Media remainsa massive market  mobile devices are, after all, media consumption tools  so theres scope for a multiplicity of approaches to get traction here.A key part of Bylinespush involves fostering more collaboration between writers and readers on the platform. It has a private area where funders can connect with the writers they are paying, for instance  asking them questions and even potentially contributing informationfor stories.We have just brought in communication tools between journalists and the readers  kind of like a Facebook feed. Lets say Ive paid some money to support a journalists project I then get to communicate [with them directly] in a supporters cafe area, says Tudor.You can kind of go beyond crowdfunding in a way, he adds. Often youll get very geeky people who are very obsessed with a particular subject and theyre actually contributing information to the journalist as well. So not only are they paying they can also give information to the journalist  or the journalist can tell them something they perhaps wouldnt feel comfortable saying publicly.Its a furtherblurring of the line between reader and journalist  but one which feels inevitable in an era of social media-enabled self-publication and smartphone-powered citizenjournalism.Bylines team wants the platform to becomea destination for readers, in and of itself,not just a crowdfunding website  which Tudor arguessets it apart from Beacon. Discoverability is a big thing. If you look at Beacon what they were doing most of the time is paywalling. And theres a sense where its a place to crowdfund  its not really a place where youd go oh, Ill go to Beacon and see what people are writing about, he adds.Were very much trying to be a place where people just go to read interesting stuff as well.More curation and personalization of the homepage to build a more attractive front page for readers is on Bylines to-do list at this point, as well as adding key missingfeatures like search and sectioning to help readers navigate and drill down. The overall aim with the platforms look and feel will be to move towards something like Medium, says Tudor, with algorithms taking most of the strain when it comes to curating and personalizing what visitors see.In terms of the algorithm, well be building in an element of giving people something that will piss them off as well  so we know what your preferences are, but sometimes were going to give you something that youll disagree with, he says, discussing how the algorithms will shape viewers experience of the platform.One idea we sometimes throw around is that you could apply filters that you can track the bias of certain media organizations and you can apply a filter based on that to Byline  so you could say Fox-ify the news, i.e. pick articles that would look like they would fit on Fox News. And then youd see a homepage full of that. There are lots of things we can do, he adds.