Meet Cliick: another dating app wannabe, but one thats taking a bit of aleftfield approach to the perennial problem of matching singles. Instead of proffering profiles for users to swipe through and judge, a la Tinder (and its myriad imitators) Cliick is using news stories as the swipeable connective tissue  linking users to each other when they like or discuss similar stories.The iOS app, which is currently invite-only to ensure a balanceduser-base, works by asking users to specify what age-range and gender/s they would like to meet, and thendrops them into a news feed wherethey can read, like, comment on or swipe past news articles (from the usual trending content suspects, e.g. Upworthy, Buzzfeed, Bored Panda etc).Thecontent each usersees is tailored to their particular interests, pulled via the apps Facebook log-in requirement. It also uses its own learning algorithms to keep adaptingthe content it shows each person so their like and dislike signals are fed back to iteratethe content selection algorithm.Users that like similar stories, and also match each others location/age/gender requirements, will then encounter each others profiles via comments/likes left on stories in their mutual interest bubble. From there, theycan click to view each others profiles,start chatting directly and see if any digital sparks result.We are aiming to bring the real-life experience of meeting new people organically to the virtual world of mobile in a meaningful and efficient way, Cliicks founder Moe Rafiee tells TechCrunch.Cliick adds context to the encounters as when a user finds another user interesting, he/she can start a conversation with the other user by replying to the comment the other user posted on a piece of content, he adds, fleshing out the difference between Cliick and other dating apps.In other words, the comments (and the corresponding content) act as an ice breaker and will allow a conversation to develop naturally giving users an opportunity to get to know each other a bit more and see if there is a good enough connection between them before investing time in meeting each other in person.If the problem with snap judgement (lets call them thumb jerk) dating apps such asTinder  is that they encourage singles to transactionalize the businessof meetinga potential mate, pushing peopleto be overly prescriptive to speed up the profile-sorting process, while also (arguably) subtly undermining the notion of making a meaningfulconnection by encouraging users to keep playing their matching game (tokeep them using the app), then datingapps thattake a more roundabout, intentionally slower and context-sensitiveapproach  asCliick is aiming to  could carve out a fan-base among singles burnt outby the Tinder thumbmill. Time will tell. Although whether clickbait can generate meaningful conversations remains to be seen.The other pertinent question here is: Will dating become just another layer appliedon top of all sorts ofapps?If you break dating appsdown into theirconstituent parts they generally consist of two parts: A) matching and B) messaging. It would therefore seem a pretty trivial addition to add a dating layer atopapps that are ostensibly focused onsomething other than dating.For example, a recipe app could becomea way forlikeminded foodies to mingle. Ditto a specialist sports or fitnessapp. And so on. Mobile automates the location layer so userscan easily be pushed towards likeminded folk in their immediate vicinity. Their age is often given up via Facebook sign-in. The only other key question is whether someone is single or not. That data canalso come via Facebook. Or it could be a simple request setting within the app  lettingusers specify if they want to opt into meeting other singles withintheir special interest group, whether that group is relating tosailing or running or cyclingor whatever. If theres an app for everything, every app could in theory offera matchmaking layer  although apps that are focused on linking likemindedcommunitieswould seemthe likeliest candidates.If you think all thatsounds a bit odd, consider mobile marketplace startupWallapop. Its a mobile location-based flea market app which lets users buy and sell secondhand stuff in their neighborhood. That maysound inherently unsexy but the startup has experimented with matching single userswanting to meet other singles  while selling their spare bed (or whatever). Point is technology still hasnt found a way to predict chemistry as accurately as two people actually meeting up, however fleetingly, IRL. So Wallapop giving its single usersasecondary motive to get together i.e. the chance to surreptitiously check each other out on the off-chance sparks will fly might actually be rather smart thinking. Certainlyits aworthy experiment.I know of one married couple who met IRL after he advertised his spare room for rent and she came to check it out, for instance. As the saying goes, love will find a way  and apps are just another communication medium that facilitates connections. So why should dating be limited to just dating apps?As for Cliick, its just the startfor the bootstrapping startups dating foray. The San Francisco-based team started working on theapp in March, launching it on the App Store this week  and are just firing up their marketing efforts, with a pretty standard dating app marketing plantohire campus representatives to push the app to students, starting this fall. So their experiment to see whether clickbait can forge lasting human connections starts here.The app is fully functional and has all the features designed. However, itcurrently places some users on a waitlist as they sign into the app (determined based on the users demographics  age, gender, location). We then give access to waitlisted users progressively to maintain a well-balanced user community, notesRafiee, who has a background in machine learning and data science. We are planning to keep our waitlisting framework until the apps user base has a reasonable size and diversity. We are hoping to get there by mid-late fall.