Capital One has now made another acquisitionaimed at improving its product design capabilities with todays announcement that it has bought Oakland, California-based Monsoon, a design studio, development shop, marketing house and strategic consultancy. The 40-person Oaklandteam, which has done work developing apps and sites for companies like Yammer, Zazzle, the NBA, HP, Cisco, Microsoft, Wells Fargo, and others, will remain in their offices following the deals closewhilethe remaining staff  around 35 persons  will continue on as arebranded agency called Kunai.Deal terms were not disclosed, but we understand that it would have been similar in size to other acquisitions of this size at Capital One. Monsoon co-foundersSandeep Sood, Neil Tolani, and Rishi Mehta are joining as a part of the acquisition.The two companies had been working together for around six months ahead of the acquisition on an upcoming Capital One product designed to support small business customers. AccordingSkip Potter, Managing VP of Engineering at Capital One who orchestrated this deal, as the two companies continued to work together, they realized they were aligned in their philosophies around product development, and Monsoon had the skill sets Capital One needed as it continues to try to re-invent banking for the digital, mobile age.As for Sandeep Sood, Monsoon co-founder and CEO, he says he took the meeting with Capital One largelybecause Monsoons team had been huge admirers of Adaptive Path, which Capital One bought last October. That earlier acquisition had some scratching their heads  why was a bank buying a design firm?  but it represented Capital Ones new focus on turning itself from being just another bank into being more of a software company.With Monsoon, the bankalso hoping to give itself another injection of not only design and development talent, but also a certain kind of reinvigorating culture.Sood describes Monsoon as an intentionally small team, in free-flowing workplace where individual ownership is the norm. Theres very little centralized managementwe let developers make design decisions on a daily basis. We expect it from them, in fact. Then we also have the weirdness of a small, tech consultancy in Oakland, he says. It also, fortuitously, works out of an old, historic bank in Oakland.Meanwhile, from what Soodsaw of Capital One, the team there seemed to value more in-house product development and an open culture.I think part of the reason were being acquired is our culture, notes Sood. Being able to maintain that to some level and still being close to have some impact on [Capital Ones] San Francisco office is a really nice, organic way to take advantage of culture.Plus, hesaysMonsoon is looking forward to being able to do long-term product development at Capital One  something that the project-based nature of a consultancy doesnt allow for. Previously, Monsoon would have 12 to 15 projects running at a time, to give you an idea, and it has worked with over 100 clients to date. The firm had never raised outside funding.Going forward, the Monsoon team will workon a variety of projects, including the small business project underway as well as the Capital One mobile banking app.That app (pictured) is also relaunching today, and while Monsoon didnt have a hand in the upgrade, Capital One is already taking steps toward being the kind of mobile banking app the company wants to put in front of customers. The app includes features like a credit tracker (your free credit score), human-readable transaction histories, maps and contact info for merchants and more along with tools to do anything with regard to your finances, whether thats borrowing, spending, saving, or checking.