While chain stores everywhere are trying to get you to buy things in their physical and online marketplaces, one brand decided to sell absolutely nothing.For $5 a pop.Thats right. The group behind the amazing and legendary card game Cards Against Humanity put nothing but a black screen and form to accept a credit card on their site this Black Friday:Why would people pay Cards Against Humanity $5 for absolutely nothing? I assume that most know its a joke and feel like the bucks are simply a tip. Maybe for the smile they got from the company or because theyve long enjoyed their products.Either way, wow.UPDATE: At 6PM PT, heres how theyre doing:@drew @TechCrunch I feel like the market validated our pricing strategy. Max Temkin (@MaxTemkin) November 27, 2015The FAQ is hilarious:About This Amazing OfferIf I give you $5, will I actually get anything in exchange?
Were so glad you asked! No.Why are you selling nothing?
On Black Friday, everybody is selling something. Were the only company to offer the superior Black Friday experience of buying nothing.But really, Ill get something, right?
No, were not even taking your shipping address. All we have to offer is nothing.But I need to buy your game right now.
Sometimes buying nothing is better than buying Cards Against Humanity. This is one of those times.If I give you $5, what are you going to do with the money?
Thats for us to know and you to find out. Well make the announcement soon.Why would anyone just give you $5?
Because the greatest Black Friday gift of all is buying nothing. Were offering that for the rock-bottom price of $5. How can you afford NOT to seize this incredible opportunity?Fun for customer support, as well:Our customer service team is on fire today pic.twitter.com/jZDgHM24Sc Max Temkin (@MaxTemkin) November 27, 2015Its all kinda genius, folks. Nice work. Maybe theyll give the people who tipped them $5 a nice gift (or donate to charity?) when all is said and done. Or not.UPDATE: Heres what the team is doing with their full Black Friday haul.