Wrapping up her interview onstage at TechCrunch Disrupt with presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, TechCrunchs Sarah Lane askeda pretty common question for a candidate running for president  if you dont win, are you interested in serving as vice president?Would you ever ask a man running for president that question? Fiorinasaid.It was an odd response to a question that interviewers would ask anyone who was running for president but had a slim chance of actually taking the partys nomination. Its a reason many politicians run long-shot campaigns, and one that could easily be asked of many of the male candidates running for the Republican nomination, including Marco Rubio and Mike Huckabee.In fact its asked so frequently that the New York Times referred to it as the worst question of the 2004 election because reporters asked it of John Edwards at every campaign stop.Fiorinas response was an insubstantial and thinly veiled attempt to avoid answering a question. She would have been better off responding with a no comment. In one day since shes announced her bid shes used it twice;yesterday it was during an interview with Katie Couric.The answer was a disappointing twist in an interview in which she highlightedthe unique skills a female candidate could bring to the Oval Office when compared with the men in the race. She said it was a great thing that both parties had women in the race, while noting that shes running to beat Hillary Clinton. She said women are better at having longer conversations about policy issues and are less prone to the vitriol of short soundbites than male candidates.Ive never been a token in my life, she said. I started out as a secretary. On the other handthe facts are that Im a woman so I bring a womans perspective to the table.Gender will inevitably play a role in the 2016 presidential election, with Hillary Clinton leading the Democratic field. Now with Fiorinas campaign announcement yesterday, two women are in the race to break the nations highest glass ceiling.In 2008 Clinton avoided talking about her gender at all. As her opponent Barack Obama ran a primary campaign based on making history as the first African-American, Clinton never invoked the idea that electing the first female president could also be momentous. In fact the first time she spoke strongly abouther gender was in her concession speech.Although we werent able to shatter that highest, hardest glass ceiling this time, thanks to you, its got about 18 million cracks in it, and the light is shining through like never before, filling us all with the hope and the sure knowledge that the path will be a little easier next time, Clinton said in 2008.As political analysts have noted, Clinton is back with a new gender strategy. My former professor,JonathanAllen, noted in Vox that this time around, Clinton will run like a woman.Clinton has teased that eradicating the gender gap in STEM positions and decreasing the pay gap will be a major issue for her in 2016.In recent visits to Silicon Valley, Clinton has appeared at women in tech conferences, and she will likely bring up the issue as she heads back to the area for fundraising this week.As a former CEO of a major technology company, Fiorina is even more well-positioned than Clinton to advocate for this cause. Hopefully rather than playing the gender card to evade one of the most trite primary campaign questions, Fiorina will use it where it matters to enact meaningful change for 53 percent of the electorate.