Carousell, a three-year-old mobile marketplace thatenables social commerce, could emerge as the next big e-commerce player in Southeast Asia. Thats because, according to multiple sources in the investor and e-commerce communities in Southeast Asia, the Singapore-based company is currently trying to raise a whopping $50 million Series B to expand its footprint acrossAsia.Carousell did not reply to multiplerequests for comment or confirmation of its fundraising plans.Founded in May 2012, Carousells app is a peer-to-peer commerce marketplace,much like a Craigslist for mobile. Users post items that are for sale, those interested in buying them then initiate a conversation to finalize a price, payment (which happens outside of the app, for now) and a place to meet/mailing options to deliver to goods. The companys tagline  Snap to Sell, Chat to Buy  emphasizes the focus on social commerce made easy. (Developing its tech  and potentially adding an in-app payment system  could also be on the cards for such a big round, but thats us speculating as this has not been confirmed by sources.)Timing would certainly suggest that Carousellis out in the field raising new capital. Its been more than a year since itclosed a $6 million Series A led by Sequoia in November 2014. It previously took an $800,000 seed investment led by Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten.At the time of that Series A, we reported that eventually, Carousells founders hope to take it further into the Asia-Pacific region and thats exactly what this round  which we understand that the company has been talking to investors about for around amonth is aimed at doing.The Carousell service is currently available in Singapore, Indonesia and Taiwan, where it can be access via iOS and Android apps as well as its website. The exact scope of the startups planned expansion isnt clear, but more markets in Southeast Asia  such as Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines  are likely to be priorities, in addition to reaching other parts of the wider Asian continent.While Carousell has spawned a dedicated following and gone beyond early adopters  asthe existence of parody TumblrCarouhell,whichdocumentssome of the stranger stories from the service, shows its mission is challenging. Most e-commerce happens on larger, well-backed sites like Rocket Internets Lazada andZalora, SoftBank-backed Tokopedia in Indonesia, andsocial networkslike peoples Facebook andInstagram pages. Building out the Carousell marketplace/platform is an addition challenge beyond encouraging people to sell their goods via a P2P system.That said, the genre seems to have plenty of potential in Asia  and Southeast Asia, in particular  where many people are thrifty and private sales of unwanted or no longer used items are commonplace offline. In the emerging peer-to-peer commerce space, there arefewsites with the calibre ofinvestors or size of funding ofCarousel. Another $50 million in the kitty would certainly help to move things forward.