In whats becoming something of a tradition for the online retailer, Amazon has again dropped the cost of its Amazon Prime membership to celebrate the success of its Amazon Studios division at an industry awards show. Specifically, the company is toutingits two new Golden Globe wins for Mozart in the Jungleby temporarily discounting Amazon Prime to $73 starting on Friday  a drop from the usual price of $99 per year.In addition, Amazon is hoping to also entice more sign-ups by making its newestaward-winning show available to stream for freeall weekend.This is now Amazons preferred marketing strategy following an Amazon Studios win, it seems. In September, the company dropped Amazon Prime to just $67 for a one-day sale after the Amazonwinning big at the Emmys for its original series Transparent. (It was the first Emmy win for Amazon.)Why $67 then and $73 now?The number is a clever little nod to the awards ceremony itself. Amazon took home Emmys at the 67th PrimeTime Emmy Awards, and this past Sunday, its show Mozart in the Jungle won Best Comedy and Best Actor in a TV Comedy at the73rd Golden Globe Awards. In fact, despite having been dwarfed by Netflix in terms of the number of nominations, Amazon walked away with more wins while Netflix left empty-handed.With the added wins this week, Amazon has now racked up four total Golden Globes, the company notes.The show will be available to anyone who wants to view it (err, binge it?) this weekend, including both the award-winning first season and the newly released Season 2. It will go live on Friday, Jan. 15 at 9 PM PT and remain online until 11:59 PM local time on Sunday, Jan. 17 at a dedicated URL Amazon.com/mozartinthejungle.The sale on Amazon Prime memberships will also only run during those samehours.Mozart was a bit of an underdog at the Golden Globes, making its double win a surprise. While its certainly watchable and well-acted, it had some heady competition in both of its categories. For example, it beat out Transparent for the Best Comedy win, as well as Hulus Casual, Netflixs Orange is the New Black, and HBOs Veep and Silicon Valley.The show itself, in case youre unfamiliar, follows a cast of characters who work at the New York Symphony. Its actually based on a 2005 tell-all book fromoboist Blair Tindall called Mozart in the Jungle: Sex, Drugs & Classical Music, and has been said to be a realistic portrayal of what its like in the world of classical music, with the orchestras budgetary pressures  and, yes, even the politics, drinking, drugs and affairs.