On the cusp of the annualplunge into the CES-pool, where a gigantic cocktail shaker of consumer electronics companies will spray forthwhat willmostly turn out to be forlorn hopes for growth, its customary to shakeones head at the sorry, self-obsessed state of tech.But there is perhapsincreasedcausefor eye-rollingthis year, with the prospect of a thousand and one wearable permutations plopping off the end of factory lines  propelled into beingby their makers frantic search for the mass market.Late last year analyst Gartnerclaimed smart clothing is going to emerge this year. Or rather that it has the greatest potential for growth among fitness wearables. Which is not saying much when youre rounding up an alreadyover-egged categoryto separate out a few relatively late-to-the-partysprinkles.Novelty running t-shirtsthat track the salt ratio of your sweat glands as you slog around the block might grab some attentionfor a whilebut when questionableutility comes unstuck in the wash, well, theyre going to be consigned to the techno laundry bin until something more robustly useful comes along. So the hype cycle goes.Of course device makers have fresh impetus to rush out wearables in 2015 to try to gobble a littleofthe oxygen of publicity that will inevitably be pumped into Apples own inflated wrist computer, due early this year. Which is never a good formula for makinguseful gadgets. But it is a goodformula for gadgets to bemade.And so CES will be lousywith wearables.The usefulness of the Apple Watch itself remains to be seen. In the short-term it wont be an also-ran, because #Apple and #fashion provide some innate (but perhaps limited) cachet. But nor will it be a game changer in the way the first iPhone was. The watchis necessarily evolution, not revolution because the kingpin mobile gadget  smartphones  are a fantastically useful, highly capable, super successful technology in their own right. And they are also a device we already own.Any other mobile hardware has to contend with and compete with that. Which means everything else isasupplementary, secondary device. Andany digital life enhancements offered by wearables arenecessarily incremental.Or, put another way, theyre a bit meh. (Indeed,mehrablesmight bemore appropriate category name. How much wear the average wearable actually gets is a metric I for one would love to quantify.)Meanwhile the tablet category  which Apples iPad sparked backinto life less thanfiveyears ago is on track for more slowgrowth this year (says Gartner). Why? Because phones have grownbigger and more tablet-like, eroding the usefulness of tablets.If anything is growinghere, its shiny new gadget fatigue. Because the mobile computers stuffed in our back pockets are already so darn useful. And only getting more so, as more sensing capabilities are added year on year. So why strap onanything else?Consumer technologys auxiliary cutting edge (wearables et al) wasalreadypushing past the neurotic last year  what with overblownquantification hypedemanding shrilly that everyone and their dog track all of themovements of all of the things. There was even a device for tracking your cats bowel movements. And, frankly, if you dont know where your kids are without clipping them to a gizmoyou probably shouldnt have any in the first place.How much appetite there is for obsessive quantification andtracking is questionable. Certainly at this point in tech evolution, whenthe quality of the data being generated is questionable, and what you can do with it is so roundly uninspiring. Use cases areoftennot compelling, and are compounded by dismaluser experience. If your quantification service justspews outanother funnel of data on the expectation that a dailydigital gungingwill be a welcome addition to the harried consumerslife, newsflash, it wont. Youre just adding to the noise pollution.The mass market will certainly care when technology enables itto track its own healthcare in accurate, granular detail  say,at a molecular level  and, crucially, when devices and servicesuse that intel intelligently, to signpost how the userslifestyle can be tweaked for positive, quantifiable health results. (Emphasis on the word accurate.)But until then wearables are mostly anannoying bandaid thats all too oftencoming unstuck. Likea version of Clippy the digital paperclip thatsstepped out ofthe screen and wrapped itself cloyingly around yourwrist, these devices see you are moving your meatsack and want to tell you all about it.And if theyre not going after this sort of general movement nagging, wearable makershave thetougher job ofidentifying and serving particularniche groups who might bepersuaded to shell out for a specialistwristlet. Theres utility there, sure, but smaller more specialist markets do not add up to another smartphone-sized consumer electronics success story. Sorry CES.So, on the cusp of a fresh wave of wearables spontaneously manifesting in the Mojavedesert, a plea for tech to stop being sohysterical  and focus on the business of beinggenuinely useful. However long that takes. This ones a marathon, not a sprint.