Now that the FCC is the subject of several lawsuits, and its leader, Chairman Tom Wheeler, was dragged in front of Congress repeatedly to answer the same battery of inanity, its worth checking in to see how the agency is feeling. Is it confident that its recent vote to reclassify broadband under Title II of the Telecommunications Act will hold?Yes, unsurprisingly. Recently, Wheeler gave a speech at Ohio State University, laying out his larger philosophy regarding the open Internet. His second to last paragraph is worth reading:One final prediction: the FCCs new rules will be upheld by the courts. The DC Circuit sent theprevious Open Internet Order back to us and basically said, Youre trying to impose commoncarrier-like regulation without stepping up and saying, these are common carriers. We haveaddressed that issue, which is the underlying issue in all of the debates weve had so far. Thatgives me great confidence going forward that we will prevail.That confidence isnt itself too newsworthy  why would the FCC pass something that it cant defend? But at the same time, Wheeler echoesone of his top lawyers, Gigi Sohn, who first extolled the use of Title II in the agencys plan, among other legal tools, in an interview with TechCrunch:We like to say its the belt, the belt and the suspenders. The critical thing is we are reclassifying broadband Internet access as a Title II service. That is the biggest thing, and that allows us to move forward with the strongest possible authority. We also have authority through Section 706 and Title III for mobile. So basically were using all of our authority. Were not letting any of it languish.And heres Sohn saying that the FCC is going to win:Its been over a ten-year slog to get these rules right. We really feel confident that we are on the strongest possible grounds. We will win the inevitable legal challenge.If the FCC loses in court, and the issue heads to the Hill, who wants to wager a sizable sum of money that absolutely nothing would get done. Place dogecoin on your mark in the comments.