Change.org, founded in 2007, long ago became the go-to place for people wanting to capturethe attention of corporate giants, as well as for local activists looking to effectchange in their communities. Indeed, the San Francisco-based company now counts 130 million registered users around the globe  35 million of them in the U.S.  and 30,000 campaigns are launched every month on its platform.In one very recent high-profile case, a Change.org petition asked President Obama to pardon the two men onwhich the Netflix documentary series Making a Murderer centers. (Though the petition garnered more than 350,000 signatures by late last week, themen willremain in prison for now; the president can only pardon those whove committed federal crimes.)Now, using its considerable power, Change.org is setting out to transform the process of voting. Specifically, a new mobile platform it has developedcalled Change Politicsshould enable voters to make more informed choices on election day. Not only can anyone submit questions directly to candidates through the platform, but they can easily find endorsements from the people and organizations they trust, as well as create a personalized ballot guide to take with them to the polls on their smartphones.Its a great development for voters like me, who often scramble with what to do once ushered into avoting booth, having waited until the last minute to learn about issues that may be less central.And Imin the majorityof voters,saysChange.org founder Ben Rattray, who calls theuser experience of casting a votein America terrible, and pretty much unchanged since the founding of the republic. Think about it, he says. Paper ballots. Dozens of races with candidates youve mostly never heard of, or heard terrible things, and with whom youve had no direct communication at all. If voting were a company, it would have gone out of business a long time ago.Wein the U.S. arestuck with it, alas, but Change Politics  a global effort  is a smart attempt at improving the practice for the 80 percent of people who are expected to walk into a voting booth with a smartphone this year;whomever owns that real estate could well become a powerfulforce in politics.If youre interested in learning more about the program, this video neatly sums up how the whole thing works.