It seems like barely a day passes without some notable mention of chat bots in the tech industry. Now one of North Americas most usedchat apps has jumped on the wagon after Kik, the billion dollar mobile messaging service particularly popular with young people, opened its doors to bots.First of all, lets check on exactly what a bot is. They are automated accounts that follow specificinstructions to interact with users. They commonlyserve up content  like a GIF or the weather forecast  but can be programmed to do all manner of things. Theres plenty of hype around them because chatapps are so sticky that botsare easier to engage with than downloading apps, and could be an important vehicle for reaching consumers.There arent too many examples of bots in the market right now, although Facebook is hotly tipped to throw its hat into the ring at F8. Currently, privacy-focused Telegram and fast-growing work chat app Slack are the highest profile services that featurebots, but neither has a particular stronghold among the youth, a demographic that is hotly sought after by brands.Thats very much Kiks domain. The Canada-based company saysthat 70 percent of its 275 million registered users are aged between 13 and 24, and that around 40 percent of all teens in the U.S. use its service.Thats a hugelyattractivesegment, and Kik has already let some companiesin to play.In 2014, Kik it allowed selected brands to pay to develop broadcast bot accounts that could chat with users and serve up things like content or fashion recommendations. These accounts allowed brands  and particularly those in entertainment  to interact with users in an app they use daily and on an opt-in basis, potentially helping to forge a meaningful connection.But they were one-way only, whereas bots can be added to conversations  if you want to pull up the weather while discussing a trip, for example  as well as one-on-one chats, and a whole lot more.Bots are here to make your life easier. Find them all in the Bot Shop on Kik. pic.twitter.com/E0O4uPeT4X Kik (@Kik) April 5, 2016Kik has taken its first step into developing that potential after it opened a bot store inside its app,alongside the tools to allow any developer or brand to create their own bot.Users can access the bot store on the tab where they create new chats, while developers are able to go ahead and get startedat dev.kik.com. (Kik is also working with developer shops that can help get bots off the ground.)The Kikbot store is off to a rolling start today, with 15 bots from established companies ready and waiting for users. Those include entertainment, such as Vine, Riffsy and FunnyOrDie, games, likeTicTacToeBot, and other specific use apps, like The Weather Channel and cosmetics store Sephora.The Vine botBots right now might seem basic, but there are a lot of smart minds who see the potential for them to do a whole lot more in the future.Kik CEO Ted Livingston  who will speak at our Disrupt event in New York in May has heralded themas thenew mobile apps.Thats to say that, with fewer smartphone owners downloading apps these days and apps offering a bridge between iOS and Android, a bot that lives in their favorite messaging app could be a better way to engage with a consumer.Chat is going to be the next great operating system. Apps will come to be thought of as the new browsers; bots will be the new websites. This is the beginning of a new internet, Livingston wrote recently.Since Kik has long supported HTML5 websites, which are optimized for its in-app browser, a bot on its service can also be used asa trigger, perhaps to send users to a news story or website that has a feature-rich experience inside the Kik app? (Kik hasnt shipped a payments API with its bot developer tools at this point.)This is just the beginning, Livingston told me over Kik. The deeper we go, the more we find.Right now, Kik is hoping to draw in developers who can help it build out many of the norms and standards for how bots should operate.Its been a bit of a low start for the chat bot industry in general thus far,Mike Roberts, head of mobile development at Kik, admitted toTechCrunch in an interview.Were working with lots of partners itsounds easy to get started but we are all figuring out what the UX will be like. Its taken a long time for mobile [apps, its been]eight years since the iPhone launched, and we are still figuring that out, too, Roberts added.Initially, Roberts said that Kik expects the first wave of bots to be in the entertainment space, partly because that is what will appeal strongly to Kiks young userbase but also, again drawing comparisons with mobile, those werethe type of apps that drew early success when smartphoneapps first took off.Roberts expects brands to be particularly keen to translate their experiences to bots.While the user experience is still up in the air, we also dont know what users will think.Admittedly Im not a heavy Kik user nor one of the average  Imbased outside of the U.S. and aged over 30  butalready my Kik contact list is full of bots I sampled. Roberts is wary that, though a novelty initially, users whooverdose on bots mightbe turned off.Its hard to say what the total number [of bots users typical have] will be, he said. We think this is another app store opportunity, but we want to grow carefully with the right kind of bots.Unlike app fatigue, developing abot makes sense because they can sit in [a users]contact list until theyneed them. So we think there will be a core set of bots that users will interact with, and a small set of core bots that live in conversations, Roberts said.I tested a number of Kik bots and found them to operate much like those in Slack and Telegram  all bots are created fairly equally at this point. The Vine bot spewed out random clips, not always in a funny way, and the weather bot is limited to North America where I do not live. I dont have a need for cosmetics, either, but the Sephora sized up my style for future suggestions and I can see how that could appeal to the right person.The Sephora botTech savvy people who are long accustomed to typing /giphy lol into Slack wont be blown away by Kiks bots, but thats not really the point. Few of Kikshardcore users will be familiar with Telegram, Slackor others apps that are at the same stage of their botvolution as Kik. For them this will be a new experience.How these Kik users react, and how developers use these tools to move things forward are the crucial elements here. Livingston is right, this is just the beginning.