Chat bots are one of the hottest tech topicsof the year. Inspired by trends from Asia, messaging apps like Telegram and Kik have adopted bots  automated accounts from third partners like publishers and brands  to serve users news, entertainment and other information inside the chat experience.Facebook has seemingly observed these developments.We reported that the social network giant is gearing up toopen its Messenger to third partybots soon, while there iseven a news app  from Quartz  that adopted the bot style for delivering the days important headlines.Chat has become the center of the smartphone universe, so it makes sense that bots are being used to deliver information in a convenientand engaging manner. But how do brands or media companies get started and create a bot? Thats where Chatfuel, a company thats currently going throughY Combinator, is looking to make its mark.The company is currently focused primarily on Telegram, which is the only chat app to open its bots to all. It hascreated bots for the likes ofForbes and TechCrunchhey, thats us!  but, beyond focusing on media, it has a self-service platform anyone can use. Thus far, thats been used to make over 120,000 bots which serve over five million users.Its more than just basic bots that simply send information to users based on offering them two kinds of responses. Chatfuel is a little more intelligent. Its bots serve upnews, lets usersnarrow down on topics, and even just ask questions about items or people in the news.Heres how the TechCrunch bot works, for example:The goal of the bot is to help you stay on top of the topics and stories you care about the most. You can subscribe to different topics, authors or sections of the site, and the bot will send you news articles from TechCrunch about the things you are interested in the most. For example, Im subscribed to news about Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Snapchat.Chatfuel was founded by Russian entrepreneursDmitrii Dumik and Artem Ptashnik last year. The company has 12 staff across offices in Moscow and San Francisco, and it earned the backing of Russian Internet Yandex  The Google Of Russia  which led its most recent funding round.If you look at mobile apps, it all started as a simple concept that has evolved into something sophisticated today,Dumik told TechCrunch in an interview. Messengers are bigger than social networks now.[Publishers]can engage with a user on the web or via an app. [They will] consume content and leave, theres no way to follow-up with them, whileapps are expensive to get usersto install, and few people install apps  distribution is broken.Bots, Dumik believes, can provide a more engaging experience and may grow to be as important as the mobile app today  just more convenient and light for users.Yandex led an undisclosed round for Chatfuel in February of this year, which included participation from Y Combinator and angel investorNoam Lovinsky, formerly of Google/YouTube. Otherbackers include 500 Startups, The Knight Foundation and angelsAndrey Doronichev (VR at Google) andJack Levin, all of whom invested in January 2015 beforeChatfuel, firstknown asPaquebot, launched.Its chat bots may be limited to Telegram, butDumik  who spent time withProcter & Gamble in Russia before being bitten by the entrepreneurship bug  is optimistic that Chatfuels canvas will widen significantly soon.Facebook Messenger is the driver, he said, in reference to rumors that Facebook will open its chat appto third party bots imminently.When it opens everyone else will have to follow,others will have to follow even if they dont want to because this will help them retain their audiences.Whilethe bot and messaging space has oodles of potential, Dumik said, the rules of the game and operationsare still to be defined.Bots arent like apps, right now theres no clear understanding how this particular use case should be done, he explained.Its excitingthat you have to creative a userexperience that has never existed before a new platform that operates with different rules. We have cool tech we can use, how do we figure out how we put it all together so it all works together? Dumik added.Also still to comeis making money. Right now, Chatfuel isnt monetizing its service and nor does it have immediate plans to. The main goal for now is to increase its partners,make the AI that powers its bots smarter, and wait for other platforms to open.Chatfuel recently raised money and, with Y Combinators demo day coming next year, the startup isnt out to raise moneylike many others in the batch are. It is, however, on the look out for investors who can provide strategic value for the future of its business. Chatfuel has been on a hiring spree lately, most notably bringing inAndrii Iaroshevskyi, who spent five years at Yandex wherehe led imagesearch, and it is open to adding more high calibre talent to boost the business.