The future of mobile messaging is pointing towards services, but dont assume that only applies to digital offerings like money transfers and shopping. Japans Line, one of the worlds most used chat apps, has just made a move into on-demandservices.The pilot move is initially in Thailand  one of Lines strongest markets and a previous test bedformusic and video streaming services  where its 30 million-plus users can make use of courier, food and grocery delivery services via thenew Line Man app. Earlier this year we reported that a digital butlerservice was comingand this is it.The Line Man service is powered by Lalamove, a logistics startup that has raised more than $20 million in fundingandwillprovide motorbike delivery staff wearing greenjackets clad with Lines cartoonish emoji characters.Line said that Thailand is the first market for the service, but it could expand to other parts of the world if it proves successful.While Line has over 218 million active users according to its most recent data, 69 percent of those are based in four countries: Japan, Thailand, Taiwan and Indonesia. The maturing of messaging markets means most countries already have their top apps which people use, and thus growing a userbase in a market where your chat app is not top dog becomes hugely challenging. Lines prospects of growth in other parts of Asia  the continent where it is focusing its resources  are tough, but having a strong followingin those four aforementioned markets does mean that services like Line Man have a decent shot at gaining traction where Line is popular.Beyond existing courier services, such as FoodPanda,Line is likely to be challenged by ride on-demand services. Grab recently launched delivery services in Indonesia, where another on-demand startup Go-Jek already plays in that space in the country. Uber has non-taxi services in the U.S., but it has yet to expand those to Asia  that could change in the future, though, given that it now operates a fleet of motorbike taxis in some markets. Uber Moto is currently in India, Thailand and Indonesia, but is likely to expand to other parts of Asia over time.As if that wasnt enough crossover, Line hasactuallyoperated its own Uber-like service in Japan since 2015, although it remains to be seen whether that initiative will expand overseas.Line has been linked with a public listing for the last two years. The Japanese company reportedly canceled dual U.S.-Japan listings in 2014 and 2015, and already theres been talk of a renewed effort this year. Showing growth is the name of the game for going public, and this move into services is part of the companys efforts to be more than just a messaging app for its users.