Line, one of Asias top messaging app companies, got back to positive financial growth after recovering its first quarterly revenue drop. The Japanese company said its messaging app service grossed32.2 billion JPY ($267 million) in Q3 2015, up 35 percenton one year ago and up 15 percent on the previous quarter. The company didnt reveal a profit or loss once again.Lines revenues may be risingagain, but overall momentumis most definitely slowing. The messaging firm is well short ofdoubling its revenues as it did last yearbut  more worryingly  user growth, the center piece of revenue generation,is flattening at an alarming rate. Line, which is owned by Korean Internet firm Naver, said today that it has212 million active users (MAU) each month. Thatmeans it added just one million active usersover the past three months, even fewerthan the previous quarters meagre addition of six million.That may have something to do with the companys new focus on Asia. Previously, it had been keen to expand into Europe and the U.S., but, three months ago, CEOTakeshi Idezawa made the decisionto concentrateon markets where it has the chance to gain the top spot. (Being the dominant player makes monetizing services a lot easier.)The company today pointed toIndonesia, a fast-growing mobile market with a popular of 250 million that is attracting interestfrom Spotify, among others, asone target market where it is seeing rapid growth. To date, Line has been far too dependent on home country Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. It is the most popularmessaging app in each of those countries, and collectively they accounted for half of its MAUs in the previous quarter. Now, in an effort to reflect its progress in Indonesia, Line said that Japan, Thailand, Taiwan AND Indonesia collectively represent137 million MAUs  nearly two-thirds of its active userbase.Nonetheless, Idezawa said in a statement that Lineis now venturing into various new initiatives to find that next country or countries where we can become number one.That, in case you didnt know, means using services to gain popularity. Because, while Line may be struggling to add active users, it continues to monetizeexisting loyal fans better than anyother chat app. Thats thanks toa collection ofservices like games (which account for something like half of all review), stickers, music streaming, payments, Skype-like global calling, Uber-style taxis on-demand, and more, and that aforementioned core audience in four countries.Things would certainly be more severe if Line hadnt already begun developing its services business  warning to other messaging apps out there! But, given the slowing revenue and user counts, Lineisnt about to become a global rival to WhatsApp or Facebook Messenger and that may explain why it (once again) postponed plans to go public.