Line, the messaging app from Japan, dipped its toes into commerce when it launched a grocery servicein Thailand back in February. Now it has extended that with a new gift shop for offline products. The service is initially available in Thailand, which is one of its largest markets with over 30 million registered users.The company has piloted a lot of services in Thailand  including a $2 music streaming serviceand a YouTube-like app  as it seeks to capitalize on its popularity in the country and generate revenue.Lines user growth has flattened off this year, so its essential that it finds ways to monetize users in its biggest markets  Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia represent two-thirds of its 212 million monthly active user base.Line users can already send each other digital goods, like stickers, but this new gift shop is about physical, offlineproducts. Lines initial partners include 7-Eleven, Asia Books, SF Cinema and others  so, you can send your friends a coffee, a breakfast, cinema tickets, or more.The service is powered by Line Pay and its fairly easy to use once youre set up onthe companys mobile payments service. I sent a friend a breakfast set for a discounted14THB (around $0.50), and it took less than a minute from start to finish.Just to be sure, I tested the feature out again  sendingsomeone on Twitter a cinema ticket (because why not)  and again the process was quickand easy.The more pressing question is whether an effort like this can scale. Tango, the U.S. messaging service valued at over $1 billion, recently laid off staff after an unsuccessful venture into e-commerce, but Lines gift shop purchases are so inexpensive that the main goal of the project appears to be getting users to sign up for Line Pay.By adding their card to the service, Line overcomes a major barrier that could lead to them using Line Payfor larger and more regular purchases, rather than just bringing in small sums like $0.50. (Which are heavily discounted, by the way.)WeChat, the messaging giant from China, has mastered the art of getting users to bind their bank card to its payment service. At the last count, it had over 200 million users on its We Pay servicethanks to innovative promotions and ideasthat tie in with Chinese festivals and traditions. Line wont reach that kind of scale in Thailand, a country with a population of just over65 million, but this pilot is about learning how it can approach and monetize markets like Indonesia, Taiwan and other parts of Southeast Asia.