ChefsFeed, an app where chefs recommend the best food in a city, has a new look starting today designed to make it easier to discover the best food in any neighborhood.Users can dive into a neighborhood and swipe through various restaurants with recommendations from chefs, and alsoview recommendations of specific chefs at restaurants. Throughout the new app are huge photos of those dishes,making it feel like Houzz but for ridiculously good-looking food.ChefsFeed available in more than 50 cities. The goal is to bring the recommendations of some of the best chefs in the area that might not be as famous as the celebrity chefs, CEO Rich Maggiotto said.Heres the reality: there are 110,000chefs in North America  there are 2-3% of them influencers, and of them theres an elite group of major celebrities, mostly thanks to the likes of Food Network, Maggiotto said. Theres this tier of celebrities that are almost like global celebrities, and then theres this whole group of phenomenal chefs that have reputations regionally or in their city. We have all of them.ChefsFeed also has more than a thousand chefs adding dishes they admire outside of their own kitchens, as well as dishes they cook. For example, a chef might post one of their favorite burgers in the city  and if they have a lot of followers, they will want to share their own creations on ChefsFeed.ChefsFeed started off with a small group of chefs that wanted to create a different kind of Yelp, Maggiotto said. The group started recommending dishes outside of their kitchens, and then once the first big batch ofpeople started downloading the app, chefs started posting events in their own restaurants in kitchens.Naturally, Maggiottos mom was a caterer  hence his passion for food, but prior to joining ChefsFeed a year ago he came from the mobile media side, a digital publishing service.Therest of theteam is made up of cooks as well. Prior to this relaunch, ChefsFeed raised $8.2 million in venture financing.Its become a platform where chefs are talking to their very best diners, Maggiotto said. [The chefs]might not eat at Thomas Kellers Per Se, a lot of the content is the serendipitous hole in the wall places. Maybe theres just one good dish at that restaurant, but they totally kill that cabonara.Update: ChefsFeed has raised $8.2 million, not $15.8 million.