Right before Tracy Lawrence went into fundraising mode for her catering startup Chewse last year, she cut off her hair.She didnt know it at the time, but later upon reflection, she thought it might have been a subconscious choice in trying to improve her odds.I found I was trying to play it androgynous, she said. But it didnt work, because I wasnt being authentic. No matter what you do, whether its fundraisingor hiring, the best role to play isthe only one you can  which is being yourself.Many otherfemale founders Ive met over the years have had to be very deliberate about how they look to be taken seriously. A few months back, Kathryn Minshew told me she A/B tested all of her outfits while fundraising forThe Muse, a Y Combinator-backed recruiting and hiringplatform for millennials. She felt she would get easily dismissed while wearing dresses, so she settled on a punkier, aggressive look with black pants, and eventually raised $10 million.In any case, Lawrence did it make it through the gauntlet and is announcinga $5.9 million round forChewse. Foundry Group led the round, whileSeamless co-founderAndy Appelbaum,500 Startups,Galvanize andTelegraph Hill Capital also participated.WhileI thought about doing your bread-and-butterfundraising story, I thought it would be more interesting to touch on parts ofthe financing process with Lawrence. Chewse is competing in very tight market with other companies like ZeroCater, Zesty and Grubhub Seamless to provide catering to small businesses and startups.Itlayers over an easy way to order family-style meals around peoples dietary requirements. They operate in both San Francisco and Los Angeles with local restaurants like Mission Chinese, and have scaled to tens of thousands of meals each month.The desire to build a company around food came from a pretty vulnerable place in Lawrences life. Whenshewas inpublic school, she was bullied by a group of girls.I was eating lunch alone in a bathroom stall from the ages of 7 to 10. It was a really difficult time, she said. Inever connected the dots until later in my life. But this is what pushed me toward creating a company around food. I just found it so comforting. The best part of my dayis eating lunch with my team. Thats how you build authentic relationships.Later on, she became an event planner and found that it was a nightmare to handle meals for all-hands meetings, given everyones different eating needs. So Lawrence,whose parents also ran their own business, started a company.Sharing thesestories and this vulnerabilitysometimes helped with the financing process. Sometimes it backfired. She called Chewse a love company, meaningthat theproduct had to be delightful for end customers.For some people, it probably turns them off, and I know it turns them off, she said, adding that oneinvestor said they wanted to see Travis Kalanick-style aggressiveness. But for some people, it drew them closer.Andfor Foundry, which was Chewses lead for the round?That tackbrought them right in with acheck.