Apples lead over Googlewhen it comes to revenue generated by the companies respective mobile application markets, the App Store and Google Play, has been cemented, according to a new report out today from App Annie. And this continues to be true even though Google Play is now leading when it comes to downloads, the firm found. In 2014, Google Play had a 60 percent download lead over iOS. In 2015, this widened to nearly 100 percent.A large part of iOSs revenue lead is due to China, a country that has already topped the U.S. in iOS downloads, and has been narrowing the gap on the revenue front as well.With regard to Google Play, however, its winning on downloads, but not on apps ability to make money.Google Plays increase in downloads is being attributed largely to Androids growth in emerging markets, including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey and Mexico. Combined, these countries accounted for almost half of Google Plays year-over-year download growth, the report notes.With that growth came someincrease in revenue, but iOS continued to outpace Google Play thanks to its traction in China. As App Annie reported this past October, iOSs App Store revenue was 80 percent higher than Google Play, even while worldwide downloads were 90 percent on the Android app store versus Apples App Store.Over the course of 2015, iOSs revenue growth was driven by China, as well as the U.S. and Japan  the three countries accounting for nearly 90 percent of the Apple App Stores year-over-year revenue growth.But China in particular has a lot to do with the Apple App Stores revenue situation.In 2014, Chinawas the second-largest country for iOS downloads, and then in Q1 2015, it overtook the U.S. to claim the top spot. From Q1 2014 to Q4 2015, iOS downloads in China grew by 20 percent  growth that has been influenced by Chinas adoption of Apples larger screened devices, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.The countrys preference for phablets is mirrored by the industry at large, other recent reports have found. For example, Flurry (who once called phablets a fad), ate their words, noting that for the first time in 2015, consumers were opting for the big-screened devices over smaller phones.And they doubled their share of new device activations the week before Christmas, growing to reach 27 percent  an indication of strong phablet holiday sales.App Annies report also dips into how app categories influence revenue. For instance, games are very popular in China and revenue from games doubled from 2014, the report found. In 2015, games accounted for nearly 95 percent of total iOS revenue in China.That puts the country in the third position behind the U.S. and Japan for iOS revenue  and App Annie now believes that China could surpass both countries within the next year to claim the number one position.Google Play, meanwhile, may not have led on the revenue front, but it is getting a significant foothold in emerging markets, as noted above. Google Plays share of combined iOS and Google Play downloads grew from 45 percent in 2014 to 55 percent in 2015, with games driving a big portion of those numbers. In 2015, Google Play downloads were 1.5 times that of iOS downloads, up from nearly even values the year prior.WhileAndroid is making inroads on Apples U.S. market share, itsrevenue lags. Google must continue to evolve its strategy tohelp drive more revenue for its developers, the report states. That said,Android market share needs to grow at the high-end of thesmartphone market to meaningfully drive more revenue.The full report, available from App Annies websitealso tracksother trends that tookplace over the course of the past year, including those with ridesharing apps, dating apps, video streaming, mobile shopping, gaming, wearables and more.