Chris Sacca, the angel investor in companies like Twitter, Uber and Instagram, gets it. He understands that diversity is simply good for business.There is a greed case for diversity, Sacca told CNNs Laurie Segall at the Collision Conference yesterday.Diverse perspectives bring us into markets we didnt know existed.Its true. Theres a very strong business case for diversity that can affect a companys bottom line. If you have a gender-diverse company, it can result in a 15 percent greater financial performance compared to a company that is not diverse,according to McKinsey.Meanwhile, ethnic and racial diversity at the leadership and board level leads to a 35 percent greater financial performance.In Silicon Valley specifically, the tech-dominant area could gain $25 billion (a 9% increase) in gross domestic product by 2025.Its been common knowledge that diversity is good for business for a while now, but many tech companies cant seem to get it together.Twitter, for example, is 66% men worldwide and 59% white in the U.S. Twitter also doesnt have a single black person on its board of directors something Sacca mentioned despite the prevalence of black people on Twitter and the power of Black Twitter.Twitter is Black Twitter,' Sacca said on stage. That is a brand that Black Twitter has given itself. Thats where the hashtags happen  where the excitement is.Twitter users aredisproportionately people of color, according to PewResearch Center. Of allthe people on the Internet, just 23% of them are on Twitter, as of August 2015. Of that 23% of the Internet on Twitter, 28% are black, 28% are Hispanic and 20% are white.This is not the first time Sacca has spoken about the lack of diversity in tech, and explicitly at Twitter. Back in November, Sacca told DealBooks Andrew Ross Sorkin that its weird that Twitters management looks nothing like the people who use the product.Look at the user base of Twitter: You have black users over-indexed on Twitter, but you dont have any representation of that audience in the upper management of the company, Sacca said in November. Thats weird.Twitter, of course, is not the onlytech companyfailing at diversity. We cant forget about Apple, Google, Facebook and many others.