Cinemacraft, a Tokyo-headquartered startup that provides an alternative to the traditional video embed for publishers and content creators,has closed a$3.9 million Series A round to expand its focus on international markets and product development.Existing investor 500 Startups led the round, which included participation from previous backersNTT DoCoMo Ventures, Samsung Ventures, and Turner Broadcastings Media Camp. New investor Fierce Capital, the VC firm from model and celebrity Tyra Banks, alsotook part. The startup raised previously $1.5 million in September 2013, and anearlier $500,000 seed round.Cinemacraft provides dynamic embeds  know as videograms  which displaya selection of segments froma video rather than a single frame as is standard. Clicking on anyone segment lets a viewer to skip to that part of the video, an approach that  Cinemacraft claims  can drastically increase user engagement and interaction.In the past, the company was focused on appealing to all kinds of users, via embeds and consumer-facing apps,butCinemacraft CEO Sandeep Casi told TechCrunchin an interview that ithas found its product-market fit as a B2B2C companywith three distinct offerings.The startups tech can be used by publishers as a social media embed typically a Twitter card or Facebook post  a web-based embed  appearing on websites or blogs, such as TechCrunch  and, finally, as a format for ad servers..@KatyPerry's #DarkHorseVideo is still #1 on VEVO! What's your favorite part?  http://t.co/z62KDN8AcY #PlayWithMagic Vevo (@Vevo) March 9, 2014Casi said that, in the final example, videograms are a method for placing videocontent in skyscrapper ads, banner ad spots, and even via Adsense slots. Thats advantageous for advertisers and publishers alike because it could turn dull ad space restricted to basic text and media into more interactive (and thus lucrative) opportunities.He saidthat videograms generate increased engagement as embeds, typically seeing a 40-60 percent click-through rate as opposed to the 25-40 percent average based on a single-frame preview. Equally, with a comment function like that of Soundcloud, it also allows viewers to provide feedback in a central place and in response to each frame of the video footage.Cinemacraft uses HTML5 and doesnt impact any element of a publishers content, thats to say that clips retain existing DRM, any in-roll advertising, etc. Paying publishers  charged $1 per CPM (for 1,000 views)  canmonetize videograms themselvesvia a self-serve dashboard. Those using the technology for free will have a video ad placed inside the content by Cinemacraft, revenue fromwhich is shared with the content maker directly.Cinemacraft opened an office in Mumbai, India, with four developers recently, although its two-person development team in Tokyo is where its core engineering takes place. Its technology is open to customers in all markets, but it works viaad and talent agencies in the U.S. where  alongside Japan, Korea and India  it sees highest demand. It is likely to adopt a similar agency-based approachtoscale in other markets where it sees rising demand, such as Europe and Latin America.Casi said that the company has seen a lot of success among the film industry, with its technology proving particularly popular with Bollywood content makers in India.While it keeps its team streamlined, with just a total of eight staff, Casi beefed up the executive team with the hire ofSherwin Faden, formerlypresident of TapJoy Japan, as Cinemacrafts new COO. An additional two new developers will join in the coming months too, Casi said.We went for a manageable new funding raise now because were making revenue and want to see how the business will develop this year, Casi said of the timing of its Series A round.If we see hyper-growth, then we may look to raise a Series B before the end of 2015.