
Brooks Rainwater is the director of the Center for City Solutions and Applied Research at the National League of CitiesEmily Robbins is Senior Associate for Finance and Economic Development at the National League of Cities.As our society moves away from the mass-produced times of yore, makers are helping to lead us toward a more unique, customized future. Bringing back local industry to cities helps build strong local economies and strengthens our workforce. The maker movement is encouraging entrepreneurs to share ideas, and the city is the central place where it lives, breathes, and succeeds.Makers draw production back into the cities where consumption occurs, which can have profound economic and social benefits. In addition to added jobs, proximity means more innovation potential. As we become ever more focused on the uniqueness of placeand how technology can leverage whats great about our environment to a broader array of the communitythe maker movement delivers. The untapped skills and knowledge unleashed in a makerspace now have the potential to become part of the creative economy of the city as a whole.Public investment in the maker movement is critical. City governments help ensure that not only does this effort continue and grow, but that there is a focus on jumpstarting the local economy through increasedentrepreneurialism and building local businesses.In fact, weve uncovered a number of key ways cities can champion the maker movement:Bring the Movement to Public LibrariesLibraries have always been a place to explore ideas through books, but with the advent of the maker movement, libraries are now places where ideas can be discovered through 3D printers, sewing machines, power tools, and laser cutters. The Chattanooga Public Library transformed the4thfloorof their previously rundown library into a 12,000-square-foot makerspace, which not only revamped the library but also largely contributed to the spread of the maker movementin the city. The 4thfloor is an example of a win-win situation, where a public library experiences increased foot traffic, and local makers now have a place to work at an extremely low cost.Provide Public Infrastructure for MakerspacesPlace matters. The maker movement cannot exist without a physicalspacewherepeoplecan design and prototype creations. Cities can help meet this need by donating unused buildings or funding infrastructure projects that house collaborative makerspaces.In fact, the city of Eugene, Oregonrecently sold an unused building for $1, which will be renovated and converted into a co-working space, incubator, and fabrication workshop.In Madison, Wisconsin, a$1.5 million investment by the city will expand aStartingBlockfacility, where makers can learn to become entrepreneurs and local youth can access programs on electronics, art, sewing, metalwork, apps and gaming.Spark InterestthroughPublicEducationProgramsfor K-12 StudentsChildren are the entrepreneurs of tomorrow. The science fairs andshop classes from past generationswere earlier iterationsof themakerspaceswe see today. Thats why it makesperfectsense for themaker movement tobe acriticalpart ofK-12curricula and programming.Many makers in Burlington, Vermont,believe theessential pipeline forexpanding the movement is through education for kindergarteners through high school. Children of all ages are encouraged to participate in do-it-yourself-with-others learning experiences that promote outside-the-box thought processes and analysis.To this end, the citys libraries hosted maker workshops for K-12 students all last summer.Cities play a key role in moving the maker movement forward. One of the critical outcomes of this investment and support are the numerous companies and partnerships that have been formed as a result of unleashing the creativity of makers. From the oft-repeated story of Squaresprototypingin a San Francisco makerspace to numerous examples across the countrythese are the placeswhereinnovation is happening.Maker-friendly cities arehome to new enterprises, including companies that makeeverything fromjewelryto drones to barstoolsto apps.Burlingtons makerspaceis the birthplace ofAirShark, a start-up companycreatingdrones for industrialinspectionsandmapping uses.SnowShoeis the brainchild ofdoctoralstudentsfrom the University of Wisconsin-Madisonwholeveraged the local makerspace to test out ideas,and ultimately create the SnowShoe Stamp.Everystamp, whichwillgo intoproduction later this yearconnects physical objects with the digital worldto createspecialized experiences on touch-screen devices.Nationally, 26 percent of cities currently have makerspaces and 13 percent have hosted a Maker Faire.The diversity of what is happening is exciting and reflective of the uniqueness of place throughout the country, and cities are making it work in a variety of ways. The full spectrum is explored in our latest report,How Cities Can Grow the Maker Movement.Cities are where makers are plying their trade, and it is in the urban arena where people, place and prosperity come together. Through active partnership and a clear policy focus on building thiseffort, cities can help makers transform the world into a more customized, local-first, andon-demandfuture.