Technology companies, particularly those with an enterprise bent, appear to be coming under increasing pressure from activist investors who want to squeeze out profits at the cost of products and jobs. Last year EMC pressed by anactivist investor eventually sold the company to Dell for $67 billion. Citrix is the latest company facing this issue and from the same investor as it turns out.Its been a busy week for Citrix, a company focused on desktop virtualization and networking. Just yesterday, it sold its cloud management products to Accelerite, and on the same day announced that it had acquired Comtrades SCOM management packs for Citrix users.What these moves show is that Citrix is in the midstof a pivot where it is trying to shed products that it sees as outside of its core mission, while making the occasional acquisitionto augmentthat mission. That means products like Citrix CloudPlatform and CloudPortal Business Manager are out of here and the Comtrade SCOM management packs are coming into the fold.LastNovember, the company announced it was spinning out its GoTo products such as GoToMeeting, GoToMyPC and other products into a separate company.There are also layoffs involved herewith 1000 jobs expected to be cut from the GoTo move alone. The company hadover 9000 employees worldwide prior to the layoff announcement.Citrixhas indicated it wants to concentrate on core products such as XenServer, NetScalr and perhaps Citrix Workplace Cloud, but its not necessarily making these moves because it wants to change direction.Instead, it turns out thatCitrix is under pressure from activist investor, Elliott Management.If youre not familiar with Elliott, they are the same firm that bought a $1 billion stake in EMC in 2014,and immediatelybegan putting pressure on the company to sell its 80 percent shareinVMware.Eventually EMC sold the whole firm including the VMware pieceto Dell for $67 billion. That sale is expected to close later this year.In a case of Deja vu all over again Elliott has taken an activist investor role with Citrix as well, pushingthe company to make some moves it might notnecessarily have made otherwise.These are not the only tech firms in which Elliotthas shown interest. As eWeek reported in October, Elliott has its fingers in a lot of tech deals. The MO is oftenthe same. Elliot buys a stake, then secures a couple of seats on the board and starts pushing for substantive changes in direction.The question is why a private equity firm like Elliott is suddenlysmitten withthese large enterprise techcompanies. R Ray Wang, who is principal at Constellation Research says its because it can extractsome money fromthem.The private equity firms are targeting tech companies because their growth rates of 10 to 20 percentmay seem slow for tech, but are high [compared to] other industries. They are in the midst of squeezing these companies for cash and forcing M&A across the board, Wang told TechCrunch.EMC sold the company before it was forced to make other moves it didnt really want to make. Citrix wasnt so lucky, dumping product lines, cutting jobs and much more. These companiescould be the beginning of other similar activity by investors like Elliott as large tech companiesunder pressure from smaller, more nimble competitors become targets of these types of firms.Citrix did not respond to a request for comment before we published this piece. If they do, we will update the story.