Clever CEO Tyler Bosmeny says that more than 50,000 schools are now using the service  and that this year, and next, are going to be the years that education tech in general finally hits its stride.The company creates a third-party development platform that centers around applications for teachers and students.In August 2012, Clever had only been deployed in 1,000 schools.The company raised $30 million in December last year, Clever has raised $44.3 million in total.For us, Im sure you hear thisall the time, but education is really hard to get traction and really hard for good ideas to spread, Bosmeny said. Andso far that hasnt been the case with Clever. We have morethan 1 in 3 schools in America using our tech. Its almost entirely public schools, in big urban districts.To help Clever continue growing, the companys brought on a couple new hires: RenetteYoussef, formerly of CrowdFlower, andRoli Saxena, recently of LinkedIn.We sat down with Bosmeny to get a quick update and his thoughts on 2015 and 2016.TC: What were some of the biggest surprises in education tech in 2015?TB:I would say by far the biggest is the focus on student data privacy. A year ago there werent many of us talking about this and now it has become a central issue for schools who are trying to adapt to this new world. Also, theres the flood of apps into the classroom. We talk to districts they were using two or threepieces of software two to three years ago, now theyre trying to use 30. This is public schools, everywhere, technologys finally happening in education, which is exciting, but there are also new challenges with that.TC: Can you talk about some new hires?TB:Wed never had any marketing at Clever. Its been entirely through organic growth, word of mouth, and the applications themselves advocating schools to use Clever.We realized we needed to invest in brand and message. So we wanted to get a world class person to build this function at clever. So we found [Youssef]from Crowdflower, and with this huge base of districts and applications on our platform, we needed a leader to come in and help us grow those relationships. We really wanted to find a world class hire here, we looked for a while to find the right leader for this function. Thats where [Saxena] came in.TC: What are some of your predictions for education tech in 2016?TB:I dont think the student data privacy goes away at all, I think schools are using more and more tech, theres a growing dialog to come together and get this right. Schools are using way more software, theyre paying attention to results theyre getting from software. Its not software for softwares sake. So theyre actually thinking about it in a much more strategic way as a way to drive learning outcomes. Thats been the promise of software in the classroom for over a decade I guess.TC: How about growing internationally?TB:Its something were thinking about. Weve had a lot of countries inquire about using Clever, its not something were actively doing right now, but with the right team in place and the right traction in the US its something that could be useful in any country.TC: What are some of your big takeaways from 2015?TB:For me, 2015 was the year that Clever hit its stride, lots of growth on the schools side, tons of growth on the engagement and usage side. We moved into a new HQ in Soma and grew from 40 to 90 people, we have these amazing outside VPs to join the team, thats how Ill look back at 2015 for Clever.TC: What are some of the biggest challenges in education tech right now?TB:The biggest meme about education, and I think back to the number of people who tried to talk us out of starting Clever, the most common refrain is its impossible to get traction in education. I think, Clever has really buffed that trend, our businessmodel and others have allowed that, but I still think today thats a lot of theproblemsfor companies entering education for the first time. Thats what people ask me about.Second is, these problems around data. So much attention and conversation now is centered around the data, everyone whos working in education is trying to stay ahead of the curve here. At Clever our goal is to set a new bar in the industry for student data and privacy.Anther big thing, this is just true for every district, they have well-meaning teachers who use lots of software, but its kind of like the wild west  theyre using all sorts of software that the school and district doesnt have visibility into whats going on. So it creates questionsaround whatshappening to the data. This is one of the biggest concerns districts have today, on one hand theyre embracing all this software, but on the other hand its creating questions around data privacy, especially when its being done with individual teachers. I think thats something, if you talk to any district admin, its one of the top concerns.TC: What are Clevers next steps?TB:Forus, we are focused on ubiquity. Our goal is to be able to help every school in America that wants to use Clever can use Clever, untilany application doesnt have to worry about data integration again. Thats our north star, thats what were focused on.