Berlin-based Clue, which makes a period tracker app designed to letwomen keep tabs on their monthly cycles and help predict their fertile window, has closed a $7 million Series A round, with investment from New Yorks Union Square Ventures andLondon-based Series A fundMosaic Ventures. The new round brings Clues total raised to-date to $10 million.Clue launched its appin 2013, and says itnow has more than two million active users on Android and iOS in over 180 countries. Its currently available in 10 languages.As well as tracking periods, Clue users can also choose tokeep tabs on other hormonal changes taking place during their monthly cycle, such as low or high sex drive or PMT related symptoms such aslow energylevels orinsomnia.The app also lets users recordwhen they had sex  useful data to correlate with your fertility window if youre trying to get pregnant.While there are a lot ofperiod tracker apps in the market, co-founder Ida Tin says Clue hasa more ambitious aim than most  and talks in terms ofbuilding a platform for female health.What we want to do is basically bringing this whole amazing field of female health into the whole age of data, she tells TechCrunch. Seeing how we can integrate all kinds of data streams from various sensors and so on and bring this all together and give women a really powerful way to understand whats going on in their bodies.In a blog post announcing the new financing, Clue saysit will be using the new funding to fuel growth by expanding itsfeature set, hiring more staff and developingnew markets.Fleshing out Clues plans, Tin added: The main thing we want to work on is simply deepening the insights that women can get from the data. So getting even better at working with the data we have to make predictions more accurate. And also making notifications more advanced and more contextual.The accuracy of Clues predictions will varydepending onthe userscycle  so womenwith very regular monthly cycles will likely get more accurate fertility predictions than those with irregular cycles. Providing users with a sense of how accurate the apps predictions are for their particular cycle is also on the roadmap, saysTin.These are some of the things we can now start exploring now because nowwe really have a big data set, and we can also start doing our own clinical research in it, she says. For instance the app will be able to say it looks like your cycle looks to be falling into this particular pattern  so for this particular pattern these and these and these things might be relevant to track  or your accuracy will be so and so because you fall into this category. So we can say for you specifically your accuracy is probably within this range.Clue has also been approached bymultiple universities interested in working with its data on studies around female reproductive health issues. Tin says its working with several at this stage, including Stanford, Columbia in New York, the University of Utah and Washington University. (During the on-boarding process Clue users are also asked whether they want to opt in to being contacted to participate in specific research studies.) The opportunities for research are clear.Most women still dont really know whats going on with their reproductive health and thats a huge opportunity because its an area where very big life decisions are made, and theres a lot of emotions around it, and its impacting our health in many, many ways and its impacting our everyday life in many ways, and our relationships as well. So its not a nice to have; its a need to have kind of area. And there are no players that have really managed to solve this in a really fulfilling way. And thats what were trying to do, addsTin.One thing we are already looking at is bleeding patterns in relation to IUDs [intrauterine contraceptive devices]. And then there are things people are curious about  like do you bleed together with other women in the same cycles, or can you time trying for a boy or girl if youre trying to get pregnant. So these more kind of lifestyle type questions, which I think we can conduct some real science around. But these are just kind of the light end  its all the way from these kinds of things to more medical [questions like] do people who experience heavy PMS do they also experience heavy bleeding, for instance? What kind of correlations do we find?Has it been easy to raise funding with a pitch to build a heath-focused platform that has potential relevance to the lives ofsome 50 per cent of humans on the planet? No it has notbeen easy, says Tin. I do think that this field of female health and reproductive health is exploding, and I think we are going to see so many cool products and services in this field, and they are going to be funded, but I still think that could be accelerated massively.I still think theres lots of investors who willsaythat its interesting, but they dont write the checkIn what is perhaps something of a related penny-drop moment, Apple corrected a glaring female health oversight in its own Health app this summer by finallyadding period tracking.We need more female partners of course, adds Tin, on the investment point, after I bring upthegender imbalance in the VC firms fueling the tech industry.Markets wise, Tinsays Clues main focus at this stage remains Europe and the U.S. (which is currently its biggest market), with LatAm and Japan also quite interesting at this stage. Its also looking at India with a view to figuring out whethertheres an opportunity to do something from more of an education/global good point of view, she adds.