Changes to the computing curriculum in England, which arrivedlast Septemberrequiringschools to teach bona fide programming skills to kids as young as five, are shaking out into increased opportunities for edtech startups in the U.K.Making learning to code accessible, fun and engagingis the jumping off pointof London-basedstartup Code Kingdoms, which has todaylaunched out of beta, after trialling its game for the past year with around 25,000 kids and 700 schools.Its educational JavaScript teaching softwaretargets the six- to 13-year-old age-range, and can be played either as a web app via the Code Kingdoms site, or as an iOS app.There are actually two versions of Code Kingdoms: one thats free for schools to use, which strips out thegameplay element entirely so itbecomes purelya simplified educational tool for teaching JavaScript; and another version that kids can play at home in their spare time which is first and foremost a game, albeit one thatincludes sporadicpuzzle elements where kidshave to use code elements to solve problems in order toprogress in the game. So a sort of learning lite.Code Kingdom is a game that teaches kids how to code but in a way that is really fun for kids, says co-founder and CEO Ross Targett.The premise being, he adds, that if youre trying to enticekids digitally, your game has to be fun enough towrestle theirattention away from Minecraft  since youre inevitably competing in that same entertainment space.Using a game and game mechanics as a wrapper for teaching coding also brings native stickiness to the learning experience, says Targett, explaining that the team began by building a learn to code tool that wasnt really a game and finding usage dropping off after what looked like good initial engagement.Those core things that games have  so these basic loops that mean you want to come back daily to collect your rewards, earning a currency or working towards a goal we didnt have those so what we were having is really good engagement for a few hours and then no one coming back because it didnt really have the mechanism to do so. So we went back to the drawing board and made sure the game was actually very powerful. But the original coding tool we built to get kids coding is still a fundamental part of it.The idea for building Code Kingdoms followed on fromTargett and his co-founder spendingtime volunteering in schools teaching kids programming, as part of corporate social responsibility programs when they worked for Intel and ARM. In schools they were using the MIT graphical programming language Scratch, but spotted what they saw as an opportunity to update Scratchs approach  and teach a real programing language, rather than a pseudo-language.Most things out there are designed for teachers, or for how adults perceive kids to be learning nothings really designed to make it really fun for kids, so we wanted to make it super fun for kids so they get excited about learning to code computer science, and then hopefully go on because theyre excited to actually explore it as a career, or look at it in other subjects, says Targett.He arguesthat Scratch isno longer up to scratch for Englands schools as it does not teach a real programming language  which is a requirement of the new curriculum. He also reckonsits pretty dated now, having being built for an earlier, desktop computing world, rather than the modernmobile-focused space.Other relatively new entrants inthe teach kids coding space include U.K. startupKano, which involves both DIY hardware and learn to code software, and similarly offers a graphical interface to simplify programming. But Targett argues Kano is a platform on which theCode Kingdoms product could happily sit. So doesnt seem them as like-for-like competition.He says Code Kingdoms isalso working with various other learn to code outreachorganisations, such as Code Club and Teach First, to get its product into kids hands. We find we complement more people than compete with them, and Kanos a really good example of that, he adds.Of course it is also possible to learn Java coding via making Minecraft mods, but Targett reckons thats quite a step up in terms of ability required. We want to bridge that gap, enable anyone to get excited, learn the skill without that massive aptitude you need to really get started, he adds. And Minecraft was never designed to teach kids to code.While Targett and the team are undoubtedly evangelical about teaching kids coding, they are also entrepreneurs with dreams of building a big, profitable business soCode Kingdoms isnot a not-for-profit. There is very much a business planhere.So, while its giving its software to schools for free, its aiming to monetize via the play-at-home game version of the product  using schools as its low-cost distribution mechanism to get in front of lots of kids eyeballs. In future it plans to sell premium content for the non-schoolsversion of itssoftware to kids parents, says Targett.We see schools as a channel to acquire users, henotes. The kids will discover the product in their class and then theyll go home and play We thought this was a really good way to acquire users very cheaply that are very engaged. And use schools as a promotional channel. Because its free we get more schools, more teachers engaged. We get a lot of goodwill from our teacher community.Its also a pretty delicate balancing act when free educational software at school morphs into a money-hungry parent pesterer at home. But thats the balance Code Kingdoms is aiming to strike. We plan to have premium content in the app which is non-educational, its more entertainment focused, so a kid that doesnt want to spend money can still learn, addsTargett.The startup has raised around $410,000 to date, including from U.S.-based seed fundSparkLabs Global Ventures, which Targett dubspre-seed funding  given the large amounts required to fuel a gaming startup. He says it will be looking to raise a larger round in June.Its short termfocus is squarely on the U.K. market, with educational content tailored to the U.K. curriculum, but the aim is to expand the product to the U.S., South Korea and then elsewhere in Europe down the line.