Say hello to yet another cute toy with a mission to lift dollars out of parents wallets get kids coding and grasping the basics of logical thinking. Codie is a programmablerobot thatscontrolled via an app, using a visual programming language simplified into draggable blocks to make it easy for kids toplay with. Its target age group is 8- to 12-year-oldsThe $150+ Codie bot takes the form of a wheeled vehiclethat can perform a variety of actionsandreactions, thanks toseven on-board sensors  including a temperature sensor, ultrasound distance sensor, light sensors, and a line tracking sensor plus a buzzer, microphone and LED lights. The bots functions are designed to beconfigured via the companion iOS and Android apps, using a Bluetooth link between bot and app, so kids can make Codie move and respond to itsenvironment.The Hungarian team behindCodie, which is raising crowdfunds on Indiegogo to get theirgizmo to market, is following in the connected footsteps of the likes ofRobotiky, Primo, Play-iandDynepodto name a few learn-to-code toys of recent years. Theres also the Kano DIY computer kit that lets kids put together their own computer and then use it to play games and learn how to tweak the code to get a sense for programming. (As a sign of the kind of critical mass this category is seeing, Amazon justlaunched a dedicated shop for STEM related toys.)Codies makers reckon they can still stand out thanks to the effort theyre putting into their proprietary visual programing language, which does not require any compiling time so allows kids to play around with coding and see actions in real-time. The touchscreen softwarealso has a focus on gestures to helpkids feel engaged withthe visual coding process.We designed it from the ground up with a few clear principles in our head, the startuptells TechCrunch. It should be intuitive, it should get the most out of the touchscreen and it should follow kids thinking and imagination. This is the first language developed with these goals in mind. We created several custom controls (eg. when setting the color on the top LED ring, kids dont have to define it with RGB codes,but they just simply set the color with a visual color ring in the app), and users can create programs without even opening the keyboard.Were integrating a number of coding elements into the Codie application. Conditionals, like if-else structures and programming loops are already present. For example, using these two structures, you can create a program which we like to call the Roomba. Codie gets info from the ultrasonic distance sensor and makes a decision, if theres nothing in front of it, then Codie continues along the path, if theres something, then it makes a turn to avoid collision. If you loop this decide process, then Codie will constantly avoid bumping into other objects.The team is also intending to create a cloud community where Codie users can share their programs with other kidsto expand the learning environment.To help kids develop beyond graphical programming they are also planning to offer a feature where kids can convert their Codie programs into JavaScript.After editing the JS code, they can convert it back to the Codie interface they are already familiar with, and they can examine the changes they made in the JS code. From that point, if someone wants to be a programmer, they can learn specific programming knowledge, butthey dont have to learn the programming patterns, only the specific syntax of the programming language of choice, it adds.At the time of writing, Codie still has to hit its $70,000 crowdfunding goal to fund manufacturing and software dev costs. If it does, its aiming to ship bots to backers by November. However the startuphas already taken in a chunk offinancing, with a $125,000 investmentfromHungarian investor iCatapult, back in February 2014, anda further $10,000 from an angel investor. Codie was foundedin February 2013 but it was a year before the team went full time on the project, following their first funding raise.