It is hot takeseason today on the net neutrality front, and TechCrunch would be remiss if we didnt bring you the best, worst, banal, and asinine of the virulent anger and relieved happiness that is currently bouncing around the nation.What weve done is put our ears to several groaning inboxes, and have selected a number of letters, responses, quotes, and oral comments from the day, and thrown them into this post. Think of it as a hot take gumbo of sorts.First up, the FCC. Well give Commissioner Ajit Pai first words, since he left so many behind this morning:To put it another way, Title II is not just a solution in search of a problemits a government solution that creates a real-world problem. This is not what the Internet needs, and its not what the American people want.Keeping on the no side of things, heres Commissioner Michael ORielly:While I see no need for net neutrality rules, I am far more troubled by the dangerous course that the Commission is now charting on Title II and the consequences it will have for broadband investment, edge providers, and consumers.We agree with the commissioner: If one did feel that net neutrality regulations were unneeded, what Chairman Wheeler got passed today would be in fact both belt and suspenders, but in reverse.Moving from nay to aye, heres Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel:This is a big deal. What is also a big deal is 4 million voices. Four million Americans wrote this agency to make known their ideas, thoughts, and deeply-held opinions about Internet openness. [] That might be messy, but whatever our disagreements on network neutrality are, I hope we can agree thats democracy in action and something we can all support.And finally, FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler:The American people reasonably expect and deserve an Internet that is fast, fair, and open. Today they get what they deserve: strong, enforceable rules that will ensure the Internet remains open, now and in the future.To the shock of none, ISPs are not happy with how the vote went down. All that good lobbying spend, noodled away by a party-line vote.Well start with Comcast, promising incoming legal recourse:We are disappointed the Commission chose this route, which is certain to lead to years of litigation and regulatory uncertainty and may greatly harm investment and innovation, when the use of Section 706 alone would have provided a much more certain and legally sustainable path.That bit underscores the fact that the FCC had best draw the moat and sink the bailey when it comes to the coming legal tussle over its regulatory authority in the matter.Verizon took a whimsical approach, putting its complaint inmorse code:See that little tag at the bottom? Thats some new-school style shade. Heres the key excerpt:-.. .. -.. / -.  ..- / .-. . .- .-.. .-.. -. /  .-. .- -.  .-.. .-  . /  . ..  ....From the groups name alone, Broadband for America, can you guess what their take was on the vote? Surprise!The FCCs decision to impose obsolete telephone-era regulations on the high-speed Internet is one giant step backwards for Americas broadband networks and everyone who depends upon them. []There is only one solution: now is the time for Congress to act, to enshrine the Open Internet into law, end the gamesmanship, and secure Americas continued leadership in the global Internet economy.I am not sure how efficacious calling for Congressional action is at the moment, but there you have it.Agroup of 21 House Republicans, lead byJudiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, wrote a letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler saying, We will not stand by idly as the White House, using the FCC, attempts to advance rules that imperil the future of the Internet. The document also contained threats of legislation to strip the FCC of its regulatory authority in the matter.On the other side of the fence, Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren called the vote a victory for a free and open [I]nternet. She continued later in the comment:These new protections, including reclassification of broadband services under Title II authority, will likely face years of litigation by incumbent telecom and cable opponents. However, I am convinced that these rules comprise the strongest approach to preserving and guarding the internet as we know it.Both sides, then, are willing to discuss litigation openly. I honestly wonder which side is being cocky without merit, and which is being cocky with merit, when it comes down to a potential future winner.That Netflix likes the rules is roughly as surprising as spoiled milk in a desert. The digital video and television company said the following in a statement:The net neutrality debate is about who picks winners and losers online: Internet service providers or consumers. Today, the FCC settled it: Consumers win.Next up, another ally: Sprint. Sprint said that it has been a leader in supporting an open Internet, and that its corporate soul commends the FCC for its hard work in arriving at a thoughtful, measured approach on this important issue. So the inclusion of wireless under net neutrality doesnt have this carrier worrying too much.Finally, Mozilla called the vote an important victory for the worlds largest public resource, the open Web.We could go on, but you get the gist. In short, everyone who was in favor of net neutrality before the vote still is, and those who werent, still arent. Alert the media.