Editors note:Steve Herrodis managing director at General Catalyst Partners and the former CTO and SVP of R&D of VMware.PF Changs. Dominos. eBay. Home Depot. Neiman Marcus. Sony.That isnt just a list of wildly successful companies, its also a list of hacked companies; companies whose security was profoundly, publicly compromised. And its just a very small sample of amuch larger set.The problem is not just that our industrys approach to security is compromised but a fear that this seemingly exponential increase in security threats could lead to even worse security, especially when married to an equally urgent emphasis on speed and usability.While security is the word on everyones lips and new and more demanding security measures are on everyones to-do list, not enough regard is given to what those measures will do to productivity and usability.Employees in a company, especially engineers and techie types, will circumvent a new process or set of security tools if they find them too onerous. People will use their phones on 4G/LTE instead of going through a wireless access point, proxy or perimeter security device. Or theyll buy Amazon AWS or SaaS services if their IT department takes too long or has too many hoops to jump through. Or theyll use a personal Dropbox account if thecompanys network shares are the only option.Any of these sounding a little too familiar?How do we properly handle increased needs for security without forgetting the need for speed? This is thechallenge ahead.Its time to lay down some commandments before users start melting down their gold iPhones and making a golden calf. Im going to keep it to four, because if I list more youre going to get exasperated enough to start circumventing themUnfortunately, companies contribute to the agitation of their employees by constantly attempting to fine-tune their products. Its akin to changing horses in midstream. To create a clear path to use, consider the following steps.Agents and special apps dont work. They are clunky and slow you down, leading people to remove or avoid them. Theyre frequently buggy and can compromise usability. Dont create a new set of apps they have to use.And dont compromise the web experience by creating blocked categories. Filing a trouble ticket to re-categorize a website is not user-friendly. Employees and users need to use the apps they want and visit the pages they need to do their jobs.People have a computer at work and at home, a laptop, a tablet, and a phone or two. All too frequently these devices have separate protocols and expectations.For example, I had to use a VPN at home, but not at work. My laptop required two-phase authentication, but my iPad did not. I could only use Mac Outlook at work, but I could use Apple Mail at home. All of these discordant protocols feel like roadblocks that need to be avoided. And I am not an outlier.Moores Law may or may not endure over time, but the perception that faster is better and an emphasis on being first means that speed is not incidental.So, make things as similar as possible across user experiences or you stand a real chance of losing reliable security processes in favor of that even more powerful urge to get it done now.Agility is huge. Heres a metric you should employ if you want to know whether a security improvement is going to work: Explicitly measure how much slower it is to provision a server with security than to run it without. If the resulting slowdown is over 10 percent, its not going to work.People use private and public datacenters  implement security that is consistent across the multi-cloud deployments that virtually all mid-size and larger companies will employ in the next few years.Things move! Todays IT world has applications popping up and down frequently, and applications no longer stay on a single machine, making it hard to use the traditional machine- or location-centric approach to security. Your security must be just as speedy and move with them.We need security policies that work regardless of where an application is deployed. Back in the day, applications were always on bare metal. Now VMs dominate. Tomorrow it will include containers. Container computing, such as Docker and LXC, allows you to run a single application efficiently (not to mention quickly) in the cloud, without having to dedicate an entire OS. Container usage is growing quickly and iscarrying more and more ofthe computing needs, allowing for greater flexibility. We must secure them.And who knows what it will be after that. As with the multi-device and multi-cloud commandments, we need a security approach that treats these as consistently as possible.Four commandmentsall focused on a consistent and user-friendly approach to security that supports the user experience and acknowledges theneed for speed. There is some serious company building to do to follow these, and theres a serious mindset change needed as well. Both will be hard.Security that works can save your users lives and jobs, and security that fails can compromise their happiness and livelihood, as well as damage your companys reputation, trust and bottom line.This is a conversation we have to have and we have to make it ongoing. Your responsibility is not just exegetical. Let this be the start of our collective creation of a new scripture of security, one that allows for the real-life actions of living users, not just easy-to-codify prohibitions.Just as faith without works is dead, so security without usability and speed has Xs for eyes.