Brad Hargreaves, who co-founded General Assembly to re-think vocational education for a fast-changing and tech-ladenjob market, is switching from the world of work into housing.Hes started a new company,Common, thats offering flexible shared housing by the room in major U.S. cities. They took $7.35 millionfromMaveron with participation from Lowercase Capital, Slow Ventures, 500 Startupsand several individual investors. Jason Stoffer, general partner at Maveron, joined the companys board.Thegoalis to ease the process of finding housing and sharedcommunities in uber-competitive markets like New York City.How do you create a community-driven alternative to whats available today, which is basically signing your own lease totake your apartment or going on Craigslist and living with people you dont know? Hargreaves said. Were creating a third option with shared housing.Tenants can rent by the bedroom, while Common handles everything from community events to a weekly cleaning service and regular deliveries of shared supplies like coffee, tea and paper towels.Ultra-fast wi-fi is included.The application process bypasses manyof the headaches of New York City market like brokers or requirements where tenants might need 40 times the rent in income and two years of tax returns provingit. On the real estate side, theyre partnering with developers and investors who have boughtwhole vacant buildingsoutright. They givetheir partners a stable income stream without thebusy parts of property management and tenants relations.The company is tackling theNew York rental market first with initialproperties around Bedford-Stuyvesant and Crown Heights, which areboth historically black neighborhoods in Brooklyn.Were looking to build relationships with thecommunities, he said. We dont want to create moon bases or isolated communities in changingneighborhoods. I think a lot of it will involve workingclosely with small businesses.While there are positive sides to co-living withshared kitchen space and common areas being less isolating than the standard 1-bedrooms or studios developers are financially incentivized to build,it can easily dip into ethically questionable territory.There is limited land in these high-profile cities and without sufficient housing stock growth to match population growth, there are constant pressures to subdivide unitsinto ever smaller and smaller spaces. For example, Negev, a co-living communityin SanFrancisco, has gotten heat for illegally converting low-income housing into space for twenty-something tech workers.And while subdivisioninghasbeena problem for low-wage worker and immigrant communities for years, were starting to seeit happens for white-collar workers. Throughout the Bay Area, there are dozens of hacker hostels where engineers are paying $1,200 or more for bunk beds in shared rooms.Our general rule is one person to a bedroom, Hargreaves said. We dont have any doubles or triples or shared roomsand thats just a customer experience decision for us.On the other side are the business risks. Campus, a startupfounded Thiel Fellow Tom Currier,was working on a similar concept withleases for large shared houses inthe Bay Area. They wereraising about$5 million in funding last year, but just announced that theywere going to foldtheir nearly 30 housesbecausethey wereunable to make the company an economically viable business.Hargreaves says Campus mistake was to sign short-term leases, while his deals have five to 15-year-long terms.