
Cavan Canavan is the CEO of FocusMotion.Xiaomi reported it sold 2.8 millionof its Mi Band activity tracker in the first quarter of 2015;in the same time period for 2014 (first quarter), theysold exactly 0. Newer reports have stated that the Mi Band has sold more than 6 million unitsfor 2015, with estimates coming in that theyre selling around 1 million devices per month.Analysts estimatethis represents 25 percent of all similar devices sold this year. The Mi Band sells for $15, about $75 less than the nearest Fitbit offering, the Flex.So what does this mean?Wearable fitness tracking is commoditized. Heres why.Ive been in the wearable space for more than four years  ever since Icame up with the concept for FocusMotion.Ive been watching it, pitching it, anticipating it and speaking about it and nothing has really changed. In the last few years, weve seen Apple, Microsoft, Xiaomi , Samsung, Sony, Jawbone, Huawei, Razer, LG, Fitbit and more iterate new bracelets and watches in the market, but they all do the same thing: They track steps and sleep.And many dont do it well.If youve been watching, Nike just settled a class action suit out of court for $15 per person for false claims that they could track calories, steps, and NikeFuel. Fitbit has a lawsuit against it for false claims regarding sleep tracking.The core need for a wearable tracker is a CPU, Bluetooth, a battery and a beautiful little MEMS chip, the accelerometer. This Micro Electro Mechanical System lets developers determine changes in acceleration in multiple directions or axes (x, y and z), and its used in everything from your phone to the Fitbit to the Apple Watch.However, nothing is changing in the accelerometer space.These sensors can change frequency length (sense faster vibrations) or they can change amplitude sensitivity (sense more intense vibrations), but theyre essentially the same chip from manufacturer to manufacturer.Theres no need to iterate or improve because theres no real way to improve them.You may see increases in battery life, but its still the same sensor  it just lasts longer.If youre using similar chips as your competitors, using similar batteries and using construction techniques, then the barrier to entry is small for any company with a large budget and a decent marketing campaign. In Xiaomis case, they became a 25 percent player in less than a year.Theres a certain consumer fatigue with wearables. We were told they would track steps  theyre not great at it.We were told they could track sleep  not truly. And theres a flood of devices in the market that all do the same thing. They all use the same sensor and the same algorithms to track steps and sleep. I believe that this similarity, this commoditization, has hit a turning point with the Xiaomi offering. Consumers can now buy a device for $15 that does the same thing as a device at $99. With Fitbits current market cap at $8.8 billion, how does it compete with Xiaomi or a potential Apple bracelet (Apple Watch Mini)?The fitness tracker space is confusing and boring.With similar components and similar features, its a race to the bottom for price. Im disappointed with the pastfour years because there is so much more to human movement than steps and sleep. As for the $15 that every FuelBand owner received for the Nike settlement, I hope they go buy a Mi Band and drive down this commoditized market even further, forcing much-needed innovation in this space.