Comparably, the site that originally launched as a compensation data and culture platform, is officially getting into Glassdoors territory with the launch of a company employee reviewsfeature. Ultimately, Comparablys goalis toprovide more transparency around what its actually like to work at certain companies.Currently, Comparably has tens of thousands of anonymous ratings for hundreds of companies. Although what appears on the platform is anonymous, Comparably requires email verification for each review to ensure that real people  not spammers  are leaving the reviews. What makes Comparablys platform for employee reviews unique is the ability to sort reviews by things like race, gender and years worked at the company.If you take a look at Google, for example, youll see that 92% of white people report the company having apositive work environment, compared to 88% of Asian people, 75% of black people, 75% of Hispanic people and a whopping zero percent of Native American people. Meanwhile, 89% of men report a positive work environment at Google compared to just 70% of women.In the last couple of years, weve heard story after story about tech companies not being inclusive of people from underrepresented minorities. It would be great if yourgender or race didntaffect yourexperience at a company, but since it does,being able to see what its like to work somewhere for someone of a certain race, gender, sexuality and disability status is important. With Comparably, job applicants dont have unlimited sorting capabilities, but they can at least filter by race and gender, which is more than what Glassdoor has to offer.I asked Jason Nazar, the founder of Comparably, if its safe to call Comparably a direct Glassdoor competitor. This is what he said:Yes. We have a lot of respect for Glassdoor and what they do. And we believe that we have a take on compensation, culture and company data that is very different from what they do. And a product experience that brings a new and fresh take on how to bring more transparency to workplaces.That said, Glassdoor has a lot more money and resources than Comparably. Glassdoor has raised $161.5 million, with its most recent round of $70 million led by Google Capital in January 2015.Comparably, whichlaunched in March, has just$6.5 million in funding from Crosslink Capital, Upfront Ventures, 500 Startups and others.Heresa quick look at the employee review platform that launched today:The company directory page lets you search for companies to rate or browse by most rated.Company pages give you an overview of the executive rating, quality of co-workers, future outlook, etc.Here, you can see how ratings change based on department, gender and ethnicity.In sixty seconds, you can rate your experience at a company.