Raising money these days is a confusing morass, what with all the unicorns and hedge funds and secondaries and pre-seed, post-seed, and Series B crunches to process. But good news: At our Disrupt SF Investor panel, in the opening hours of Disrupt next Monday, well be sitting down with not one or two butfour top venture capitalists whocan talk to each stage of the investing process, hopefullyrevealing some secrets of their industry in the process.Our seed-stage expert? Aileen Lee, the co-founder of Cowboy Ventures.Lee, who first rose through the ranksat Kleiner Perkins, has attracted widespread attention for coining the term unicorn right hereat TechCrunchalmost twoyears ago. But entrepreneurs know her best for a growing number of smart bets that include Dollar Shave Club; the smart lock company August; and the coffee-shop chainPhilz Coffee.Representing Series A: Dana Settle, who cofounded Greycroft Partners with veteran VC Alan Patricof.Settle, who started her VC career with Mayfield, has become a serious power player over theyears, managing Greycrofts investments in Maker Studios (sold to Disney);Viddy (sold to FullScreen); AwesomenessTV (sold to Dreamworks); Pulse (sold to LinkedIn);Sometrics (sold to American Express); and theTrunk Club (sold to Nordstrom). She serves as a director on theboard of IMAX Corp., too.Representing Series B, we haveJeremy Liew of Lightspeed Venture Partners.Liew is one of the nicest people in the industry; hes also quickly becoming one of the most highly regarded. He wrote the first, $500,000 check to Snapchat (which looks like a home run, if ever there was one). Liew has also led early investments in Bonobos, The Honest Company, and Affirm (among many others).Last,representing later stage deals, were very pleased to announce that Bill McGlashan, the head of TPG Growth, will be joining us.TPG is known for big-time bets likefamed guitar maker Fender,in which TPG Growth took a majority stake in early 2013and whosecore business its been improving since, including by embarking on a digital strategy, thinking of e-learning and collaboration, and focusing on direct-to-consumer engagement. But dont underestimate the outfitsinvolvement in more traditional tech companies, either. Among its bets: Airbnb, Uber, Domo and (as of this morning) Ipsy. Were guessing McGlashan will have plenty to say aboutthe public-private confluence were seeing  and whether or not it makes sense.To get your tickets for Disrupt, kicking off one week from today, you can click on over here. We hope to see you there.