
Kristie Arslan is the Executive Director of San Francisco-based Women Impacting Public Policy.TechCrunchs Disrupt SF 2015put the ingenuity of some of the worlds top budding startups on full display in San Francisco. Allison Kopf, CEO ofAgrilyst an intelligence platform for indoor farms took home the coveted Disrupt Cup.The honor put Kopfs company in the same echelon of innovators as companies like Mint, Dropbox, Getaround and Soluto, all real-life examples of the information economy now well understood in California. While companies like Agrilyst remind us about the value of new and innovative mobile technologies, they also make us think about the future  and endless possibilities.But thoughts of the future currently present an unfortunate reality: U.S. wireless networks and the companies that rely on world-class connectivity could experience stagnation or decline due to a shortage of spectrum. Without prompt action from lawmakers and regulators, much of what fuels a critical segment of the U.S. economy especially tech-savvy California is at risk.Spectrum, for those who are unfamiliar, are the radio frequencies that allow us to operate wirelessly;frequencies that carry allthe datawe have at our disposal when using smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices like watches or toys. While its out of sight, it cant be out of mind  especially since there is a fixed amount of it and consumer demand for mobile data is going nowhere but up.Whether its a sensor in a greenhouse or an app to stream TV shows, America is home to a fast-growing number of data-hungry wireless products and technologies. In a reportreleasedearlier this year, Cisco predicted that mobile data traffic worldwide will grow 10-fold between 2014 and 2019, and nearly three-fourths of the traffic will be video. The U.S. will no doubt be a driver of that growth, as mobile devices have become so ingrained in our lives that many Americans view them as indispensable.For small business owners, mobile technology plays a critical role in the operations and growth of their business. According to a2014 SBE Council Small Business Technology Poll, more than half of small businesses say they use mobile applications, with 91 percent saying it helps them save time and two-thirds indicating that it saves them money. The majority of those businesses estimate they are saving up to $500 a month  or $6,000 per year by using mobile apps.Wireless is clearly thriving. Unfortunately, there currently is not enough spectrum to meet projected consumer demand. Research by CTIA  The Wireless Associationconcluded the U.S. will need to increase its supply by more than 50 percent.Because spectrum cant be created, it has to come from somewhere. That somewhere could be the federal government. Estimates suggest that agencies hold as much as 70 percent of the spectrum that is suitable for commercial mobile use. The next step lays with Congress.Fortunately, Congress already recognizes its role in the process and recently held multiple hearingsto review proposed legislation to free up more spectrum. This included abillco-sponsored by Rep. Doris Matsui that will provide financial incentives to encourage government agencies to relocate from their existing spectrum bands in order to free up additional spectrum for commercial and innovation purposes. Legislators also discussed a new billthat calls on the Federal Communications Commission to submit to Congress reports containing plans for the auction of certain bands of spectrum frequencies.Reallocation will be a time-consuming process, but it will be worth it. Without a sufficient amount of spectrum, networks will become congested. That will lead to frustrated consumers and business owners, as well as potentially missed business opportunities.One of the major takeaways from Disrupt SF 2015 is the belief that entrepreneurs can come together to solve major issues facing businesses, society and consumers. Wireless solutions can and should play a big role in that.Californias Congressional delegation especially Reps. Doris Matsui and Anna Eshoo, who is the Democratic leader for the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology should continue to be leaders on this issue so that everyone can reap the benefits of wireless in the age of the Internet of Things.