Internet Relay Chat has been on the decline since 1999, but a new generation of teens around the world seem to be discovering the joys of anonymous chat rooms thanks to Turkish startup Connected2Me.Connected2Me is a one-on-one chat service that connects registered profiles with anonymous site visitors.The key to the siteis that you dont have to be registered to use it, which enables you to appear as anonymous to other users.The site is designed to let registered users find out what their friends think of them. Anonymous visitors can select registered user profiles they see live on the site and click on the known users profile to start chatting. The registered user, meanwhile, has no idea who is on the other end of the chat.Connected2Medoesnt currently support group chat, but co-founder Ozan Yerli tells me that feature will be added in the near future. This makes it slightly less robust than the group chats and anonymous profile setups of the late 90s, but its designed on the same idea.According to Yerli, a lotof teens are usingthe site to find out if their school crush likes them or not. They might see that their crush is onlineand chat anonymously with them, ask them questions to find out who they like, he told me.This seems to work the same wayfor adults. Yerli sayshe met his girlfriend on Connected2Me this way.He alsotells me that several Turkish celebrities areusing the site to allow fans to chatwith them directly.According to the founders, Connected2Me now has 2.8 million registered users from all over the world, most of which are intheir teens and early 20s.The site also has a strong base of mobile registered users, doubling from 700,000 in December to 1.4 million in January.Notably, thosenumbers do not include the manythatcome to the site and web app anonymously. Yerli didnt want toshareanexact numberof anonymous users, but estimated it to be about a million.Like Yik Yak, After School, and other anonymous chat apps, removing identity could potentially lead to bullying, especially among teens. Unfortunately Connected2Me doesnt offer a way to combat that type of harassment at the moment.Yerli and his co-founder Yurdakul Orhun met in high school. Yerli, a 25 year old software developer with aPhD inComputational Physics, seems too young to remember the early chat room days of the Internet, but says he enjoyedthem, because of the girls. He also liked the idea of randomly talking to strangers from all over the world.He built the site based on anonymous chat by himself back in 2011,then later recruited his old high school buddy to come on board. Orhunwas working as database administrator at one of the largest banks inTurkey at the time.Yerli says he thought Orhuncould add his experience inErlang language, an industry standard in real-time communications. Plus, he figured itd probably be more fun.Connected2Me is free to both registered and non-registered users. But according to Yerli the site produces a profit by enabling registered users to buy credits AND promote their profiles.That gives themmore visibility on the homepage, which means more people to potentially chat with. For $1.99 you get 30 minutes of promotion.The site was a part of the 500 Startups Batch 11 companies. It recentlyraised a seed roundfrom a number of Turkish investors, bringing the total amount of funding up to$515,000.