Android Pay, Googles forthcoming payments platform and rivalto Apple Pay, will soon launch, allowing consumers to pay using their Android smartphones at point-of-sale as well as make purchases within mobile applications. However, according to sources familiar with Googles plans, Android Pay isnot arriving today  or any time this week, in fact  despite a handful of reports and leaks from participating merchants which seemed to indicate otherwise.As you may recall, Android Policerecently uncovereda notice to employees at Android Pay partner McDonalds which indicated that the restaurants customers could begin usingAndroid Pay on Wednesday, August 26. A second McDonalds memo was also posted to Reddit, again referencing the August 26 launch date.Even thoughthere weremultiple sources for the McDonalds leak, some questioned the accuracy of those reports, given that bothnotices also incorrectly listed the launch date for Samsung Pay as being August 21  when Samsung itself has said its own payments platform will launch in September in the U.S. (It did, technically,launch August 20 but only in Korea.)However, the launch time frame began to look more legitimate when Subway  another Android Pay partner  began emailing its customers to let them know that Android Pay was live. According toConsumerist, which got a copy of the Subway FreshBuzz email newsletter from a reader, the fast food chain yesterday proclaimed that Android Pay Is Now At Subway! The email even linked to the Android Pay website, even though that site continues to say the platform is coming soon. (Google is not commenting on the leaks.)Clearly, Android Pays launch is imminent,as retailers have been posting placards, signs and placing stickers on their payment terminals for some time. But they may have jumped the gun on the official go-live date for Android Pay.In case you missed it, Android Pay was announced this spring at Mobile World Congress, then furtherdetailedat Googles annual I/O developer conference in May.The new payments platform will effectively pick up where Google Wallet left offby allowingconsumers to tap and pay using their smartphone at local stores, while also offering a developer APIfor digital payments. (Confusingly, Google didnt close down Google Wallet following the news of Android Pay. Google Walletinstead was re-introduced as a peer-to-peer payments app likeVenmo or Square Cash.)Similar to Apple Pay, Android Payscontactless payment solution utilizes NFC and tokenization technologies, but only requires users unlock their phone to authorize atransaction  that is, it doesnt require biometric input, though thats supported on newer devices that have a fingerprint reader. It will work on Android devices that run KitKat and higher, which also havean NFC chip. And unlike Googles previous attempts at mobile payments, this time its working withthe mobile carriers, including AT&T, Verizon (disclosure: TechCrunch parent AOL is owned by Verizon), and T-Mobile.Whilenot yet live, the Android Pay website offersa host of information about how and where the technology will work when it launches. Consumers will be able to use their credit or debit cards including Visa,MasterCard, Discover and American Express,at a wide variety of merchants, likeBest Buy, Gamestop, McDonalds, Macys, Whole Foods, and more. Apps such as Groupon, GrubHub, OpenTable, Lyft, Uber and many more will also support Android Pay, the site indicates.Update: Google hints that Android Pay is coming soon with a new tweet that simply says to stay tuned.Looking forward to #AndroidPay? Stay tuned. #soon Android (@Android) August 26, 2015//platform.twitter.com/widgets.jsImage credits: Google; Android Police; Reddit