Livefyre is announcing that it has raised $47 million in new funding.That number includes a $15 million addition to the companys Series C  founder and CEO Jordan Kretchmer told me that the company didnt bother to announce that opportunistic funding separately, because it was quickly followed by a $32 million Series D.Livefyre was originally known as a commenting platform (we used it for a while at TechCrunch), but its been expanding beyond that with moves like the acquisition of social curation startup Storify and the launch of Livefyre Studio, which basically allows publishers to gather user generated content from anywhere online, and to republish it anywhere in turn.(For example, heres a Livefyre Studio-powered page highlighting content from Unilevers sustainability initiative Project Sunlight.)Kretchmer said theres been a phenomenal response to Studio since it launched four months ago, and the company will continue to grow the platform with more codeless applications. He suggested that Livefyre now revolves around user-generated content, which can include content created on the publishers site (which is where commenting still plays a role),as well as content pulled from social media and elsewhere on the web.Livefyre sees the UGCprocess as falling into four broad steps  collect, manage, design and deliver. Its strength right now is more on the collect and manage side, Kretchmer said, so you can expect future products to expand on design and deliver. In other words, Livefyreshould allow marketers to take user-generatedcontent and present it in customizable ways on their own site without having to call my IT department, without having to even run it through the typical channels of QA.Livefyres strength on thecontent side attracted both Adobe and Salesforce Ventures to invest in the Series D, Kretchmer said. He suggested that both companies are building out their own marketing clouds, and they see UGC as a crucial, missing piece. The investmentcould lead toLivefyre integration with Adobe and Salesfroce, but Kretchmer said its too early to know exactly how that will play out.Healso said that this is the first time the two companies haveinvested together. I pointed out that Adobe and Salesforce have largely built out their marketing platforms with acquisitions  was that ever a possibility here?I cant talk about any M&A discussions in general, but from our perspective, it was all about getting these two guys involved so it can accelerate our business, Kretchmer said. Beyond that, the discussions werent anything we were interested in. Butfor them, the question was, What do we do to help Livefyrebe successful?'Other investors in the new funding include Cue Ball, Greycroft Partners, Hillsven Capital and US Venture Partners. The companyhas now raised a total of $67.3 million, and its 1,500 customers includeAOL (which owns TechCrunch),Conde Nast, Sony PlayStation and Universal Music Group.