Apple CEO Tim Cook has told the The Irish Independenthehas no plans to converge Cupertinos lovingly crafted iPad and Macbook hardware lines into a hybrid tablet-plus-laptop device  arguingthat melding the two device typeswould underminethe user experience. And not-so-subtlythrowing shade on rival Microsofts approach to converged computing in the process. The latterof courserecently unboxed theSurface Book a hybrid laptop-tablet its hoping willchase the iPad out of the enterprise, even as Apple doubles down on the demographicwith the launch of aniPad Pro.We feel strongly that customers are not really looking for a converged Mac and iPad, Cook told the newspaper. Because what that would wind up doing, or what were worried would happen, is that neither experience would be as good as the customer wants. So we want to make the best tablet in the world and the best Mac in the world. And putting those two together would not achieve either. Youd begin to compromise in different ways.Hiscomments clarify remarks he made earlier this month to The Telegraph newspaper, on a publicity drive to drumup noise to accompanythe launch of theiPad Pro, in which Cook hadappeared to suggest he thought therewas no longer a role for PCs in a world of increasingly powerful and capable tablets.I think if youre looking at a PC, why would you buy a PC anymore? No really, why would you buy one? hetold The Telegraph last week. Yes, the iPad Pro is a replacement for a notebook or a desktop for many, many people. They will start using it and conclude they no longer need to use anything else, other than their phones.However hehas now made it clear he was referring specifically to Windows PCs, not Macs  telling the Independent: We dont regard Macs and PCs to be the same, and arguingthat while the difference between the chipset architecture of the Mac and the iPad is much less than its ever been there is still a difference in how users use both device types.What weve tried to do is to recognise that people use both iOS and Mac devices. So weve taken certain features and made them more seamless across the devices. So with things like Handoff we just made it really simple to work on one of our products and pick it up and work on the next product, headded.TechCrunchs own Microsoft watcher, Alex Wilhelm, remained on the fence in his review of the Surface Book, suggestingin its current form, the Surface Book will either be a direct hit for any given consumer, or too much.While reviewing the iPad Pro, TCs editor and Apple watcher, Matthew Panzerino, argued thatcomputing is not about any single solution but increasingly down toshades of grey. I am not willing to declare the personal computer (non-Cupertino definition) dead. Ill leave that to the bombasts. But there is a certain (sorry) norm-core computing demographic that could very well end up with an iPad Pro as the enhanced component to their smartphone, which is their real computer, he wrote.Its also worth noting that hybrid devices are nothing new. Android OEMs have been trying various configuration of phone-tabletsand convertible laptop-tablets for years. Whats a little shinier here  in terms of approach  is Microsoft pushing a converged OS across multiple device types, with Windows 10, astrategy that in turn directly contrasts with Apple committing to retaining separate (yet interoperable)mobile and desktop OSes.On the one hand operating system convergence suggests the prospect of simplicity and interoperability across multiple device types  hence Cook stressing Apples focus on usability, and features to improve interopability between Applehardware. But, while convergence might imply improvedsimplicity, its notable thatusers often resist moves to collapse distinctions  perhaps because they appreciate subtle distinctions, and perhaps also because they dont appreciate thelossof control (and privacy) that can occur whenwalls are knockeddown.So,for instance, peopledo not typically conduct all their communications via a single platform like Facebook but rather usemultiple different apps and services  depending on who they are talking to and what they want to say. Suchcomms behavior is sophisticated, not simple,but is also (often) preferred. So Cooks viewthat users activelyseek out and appreciate distinct computing experiences,rather than rush tocollapse distinctions, does not feel a stretch.Of course, its in Apples interests to maintain the value of distinct classes of computing hardware, given its business is a hardware one. And on that score Apple rivals pushing device convergence is also a strategy to directly attack the value of Cupertinospremium hardware business by foregrounding software. But just because you push convergence at users, doesnt mean people will embrace it. Software might be eating the world but it remains to be seen whether it can gobble upApples hardware business.