It probably hasnt passed you by that there are scores ofdating apps promisingto help singlesfind someone to go on a date with. Whether its via algorithmic matching (OkCupid), or fleeting proximity (Happn, Grindr), or photo-sharing (Dattch), or less moveablestuff like mutual friends (Hinge), age and interests (Tinder), or byputting women in the dating driving seat (Antidate, Bumble). Dating services in lucrative markets such asthe U.S. and the U.K. are now so abundant that singles of all stripes and skews are spoilt for matching choice.Which of course brings its own first world problem: singlesare spending a whole lot more timeswiping potentialsthan actually going on dates. Nothing saysplenty more fish in the sea like firing up your dating app of choiceof an evening. Just add abeverage of your choiceWhich brings me to Couplelizer: (yet) another debutantedating service but this onetaking a slightly differentapproach vsthe existing playing field in a bid to stand out. As well it must. Specifically itsaimingto incentivize and accelerate the going on adate component of dating, rather than building a business out of encouragingsingles to spend their time indulging indecision byvicariously checking people out and checking out whovisited/liked their dating profile.We think that there are too many sites that want users stay online and keep buying subscriptions instead of actually going on real dates, says co-founder Rokas Vachul.We wanted to fix it, and encourage users to go on a real dates as fast and easy as possible. Also we do not believe that matching engines can find you a perfect match.Most of users making their profiles to look better than actually it is, so whats the point?Couplelizer, which is currently live in the U.S. and the U.K. after a soft launch last November, asks users to take a selfie (via their webcam/phone camera) to ensure an up-to-dateprofile picture, and provide their zip code/post code (to power matching proximity, although users can manually tweak this to reset to a city centre location etc if needed). Users are also asked to specify their sexual orientation. And thats about it on the data input front  bar name, age and a few words of self description forthe profile.Point being, saysVachul, to focus on encouraging users to go out on actual dates  not on crafting subtle prose to woo a match.We think the main thing is how the person looks like, so best way  newest selfie and few words about yourself. Everything else about the person you will find out when you meet! he adds.While thats a nice idea, it does risk encouraging a certain superficiality  given users are judging whether they want to go on a date based (mostly) on looks alone. But, well, thats probably true of most dating services And Couplelizer does open up a chat feature when you get adatinginvite so you can have a bit of back of forth with the invitee to determine whether the prospective date has potential. Or sounds like a total dud.Users can wait around to be invited on dates tosee whos into them. Or they can create date events themselves  selecting the date, time and choosing a public place from the nearby list  and then selecting which other membersaresent an invite, bybrowsing nearby profiles.Invites includea dynamic expiry timeto encourage snappier decisions so less vicarious hedging. In theory.The ante is further upped by another gamification element which means the first personto accept the invitation gets the date. Ergo,you snooze, you lose.What about the issue of no-shows? Couplelizer is relying on user reviews to discourage that sort oftedium so if a date doesnt turn upthey can expect to get a negativereview from whoever they stood up.Which will in turn make it less likely they get asked on future dates. Add to that:get too many bad reviews and youll getbooted off the service.Couplelizer is the brainchild of a bootstrapping Lithuanian developer duo, currently based in Europe but with plans to move to the U.S. Hence theyve softlaunched as a web service,while they test and tweak their ideas in the dating pool before shelling out more of their own money onbuilding nativeAndroid and iOS apps. Those arelikely in a few months, says Vachul.From the beginning our plan was to have both, website and app. So from the developing perspective it is easier first to make the base of the website and then start developing app, he adds, notingthat the site as is will stillwork fine on mobile devices.At this nascent stage, Couplelizer has around2,000 registered users, who have sent more than 4,000 invitations so far. A minority of those invitations  some 579  have been accepted. And the majority (74 per cent) were sent by men. Male users are also, unsurprisingly, more likely to have a date event rejected. Cest la vie guys.The service is free to signup to, and there are no adverts, but theres a virtual currency mechanism to charge for dating events, and forthe ability to chat with other users before youve invited them on a date (chatting is unlocked as free after youve sent an invite).The virtual currency is also being used to encourage users to do some viral marketing for the service  so you are rewarded with Couplelizercoinsif you socialize it on your feeds. In futureVachul says the startup seesplenty more ways to monetize usage via the virtual coin, by  for instance  allowing users to buy currency if they want to send more dateinvitations, rather than requiring themto keep earning enough coin to fund their date invite habit.Itwill also be used as a way for users to verify their identity  i.e. those who have purchased coins will get a verified badge on their profile (as a sign of their desire to actually go on dates, presumably  since they will haveshelled out some actual cash).Another plannedpaid feature willlet userspublish a forthcomingdate event in a public news feed whichother interested memberscan then putthemselves forward for  with the invitee getting tochoose whether they want to accept thisvolunteer datingcandidateor not.Plus there will bethe inevitablepayable stickers for chat. After all, romance in the modern era demands copiousheart emoji <3 <3Other ideas are still being kicked around by the team but might include the ability tobuy a datedinner in a suggested restaurant usingCouplelizer coin,says Vachul  presumably as added incentive that someone you want to take on a date takes up the invitation.Beyond getting date-loving singles to pay forits virtual currency, additional revenue ideas for the team are focused on the potential for looping venues into theproposition so, for instance, having bars and restaurantspay for better placement within the list of suggested nearby places wherea date mighttake place.