The fast-growing online education service Coursera today announced that it has raiseda $49.5 million Series C funding round led by New Enterprise Associates. Other investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and International Finance Corporation. Times Internet Limited (TIL), whichowns the Times of India and other media properties, also participated in this round.In a somewhat unusual move, Coursera also announced that it expects a second closing of this round in the fall that will bring the total funding to $60 million. GSV Asset Management and LearnCapital will participate in this second closing.Coursera did the same thing with its Series B round back in 2013, and the companys CEO Rick Levintells me that the reason the company decided to announce this first closing now wasa matter of convenience. Some of its partners simply needed a bit more time because they were in the process of raising new funds themselves, for example.The companysays it currently offers 1,100 courses to almost 15 million users. Half of these learners are looking to gain new skills to advance their careers and livelihoods and 1million of the companys users are currently in China. Given its fast international growth trajectory, its no surprise that the company expects touse the new funds to fuel its international growth (as well as to expand its content offerings).While 98 percent of the companys staff is currently in Silicon Valley, the largestnumber of its users are outside of North America.Its largest international markets are currently China and India with about a million users each, followed by Brazil and then all ofLatin America.With Times Internet, Coursera now has a strong partner in India thatcan provide it with plenty of marketing power thanks to that companys vast media portfolio.Courseras CEO also stressed that a lot of the new funds will go toward building out the services product. Internationalization is high on the agenda, but also continued product innovation, he told me. Were doing interesting technology and are constantly improving the product and doing so for an important social purpose.He noted that he thinks Courseras platform is the best in the field, but he also acknowledged that he wants to improve the way the company does assessments and provide better learner interactions.Levin tells me that the company also plans to use this additional runway to test alternative monetization strategies. Its recently launched multi-course paidspecializations program, which focuses on users who already have jobs and want to advance their business and technical skills, is currently one of its main revenue sources. The company plans to launch a number of new specializations soon and is looking at new ways toworkwith industry partners to create these courses.