Creo, the Indian startup that recently received $3 million in funding to create a new twist on Android, has unveiled its first smartphone, called the Mark 1. A promotional video has been posted, but the company hasnt released hardware details yet. Founder Sai Srinivas tells TechCrunch that leaked specs cited in some reports are inaccurate, but emphasizes that Creo wont compete on hardware.Instead, its ambitious goal is to release regular updates to its Android skin that are so unique, Mark 1 users will feel like they get a new phone every month (the companys marketing slogan).India is now the second-largest smartphone market in the world after China. The Mark 1 is launching at a tough time for Indian smartphone makers, however, as they battlecompetition from foreign companies. For example, New Delhi-based Micromax was the top smartphone brand in India last year, but that position has been supplanted by Samsung. Xiaomi and Lenovo are also aggressively wooing Indian consumerseven though both companies are based in China, they each opened a smartphone manufacturing plant in India last year.Creowill manufacture its own devices, too, but Srinivas believes that hardware is no longer a differentiator. So far, Creos software-centric approach has been backed by Sequoia India, Beenext Ventures, and India Quotient, which participated in Creos first funding round.Everyone else boosts the same hardware, cameras, processors. Theres no point in doing that anymore, Srinivas says. Thats why we believe our philosophy is very, very valid, because at the end of the day, the user is not going to see the hardware. They will see the software and the more the user can get from the software month after month, the more attached they will be.The Mark 1s software features will focus on enhancing its caller experience, device security, app performance, and cellular data management.A lot of things can be done very, very well from the OS layer, but not the app layer, that enhance user experience, Srinivas explains. Creos developers will rely on feedback from its users in order to determine what will be included in each months updates.That tactic is similar to the community-based approach that Xiaomi and Cyanogen take to create their Android skins.Srinivas says that the comparison is very valid, but adds that Creos strategy will be different because it isnt interested in making changes to Androids user interface.In fact, you will notice that we will stick as close to Androids stock UI as possible. The idea is to build functional features that no other smartphone has. We will introduce features that MIUI or stock Android and even Cyanogen dont have.Many of the Mark 1s software featuresespecially the ones for saving dataare meant to appeal to the Indian market. In fact, Creos founding team previously worked on another hardware startup, Mango Man, that created a HDMI dongle especially for India. Creos goal, however, is to create an OS that it can license to international hardware manufacturers. After India, it will focus on expansion in Southeast Asia before finding partners in other countries.The Mark 1s price wont be disclosed until India finalizes changes to its tax law. Srinivas says it will be mid-rangemore than the sub-$100 smartphones that are helping build Indias smartphone market, but less than $400.