Crosleys turntables dont have the best reputation among vinyl heads. Almost allof the record players the company makesare designed forfirst-time buyers. Theyre cheap, both in terms of price and design.The first turntableI owned was a Crosley. Most of the parts were plastic, and it didnt produce great sound. If you played anything with heavy bass, the tone arm would skip around.The plastic cover on the top broke after six months, and the device eventuallyonly produced sound at half volumeafter being active for a year.It wasnt a great device, but it got me hooked on vinyl.When I went to upgrade to a better deck, I didnt think at all to get a Crosley.Its the exactproblem that Crosley the brand is looking to tackle with its newer C Series turntables, which includes three models. The first two models in the C Series came out last year (C10 and C100), while the newer C200 was announced at CES 2016 in January.The Crosley C200 might see some success, too. While potentially a tough sell for users like myself whove had a sub-par experience in the past with earlier and cheaper models, a test-drive easily argued the caseforentry and intermediate level users.SpecsWhat I Like About ItThe Crosely C200 is easy to set up. All you have to do is set the turntable platter in the center, install the headshell into the front of the tonearm, balance the tonearm and stylus pressure, and put on the turntable lid. If that sounds super complicated, dont worry. Everything clicks together like LEGOs, and the directions are easy to follow.Sometimes when you are setting up a new turntable, balancing the tonearm can be a bit of a hassle. Thats not the case for this turntable.The adjustable pitch controlis a nice touch, especially for more advanced users. The pitch control allows you to adjustyour pitch and tempo for DJing, anditshould help the device appeal to the more veteran crowd.Most Crosley turntables look and feel cheap, but the C200 is an exception. The matte black finish, dazzling strobe dots, and more durabletonearm make for a sleek look and sturdy design.I tested the sound quality of the C200 with a number of different genres, includingindie rock, pop, deep house, ambient, and trap. I also played all sizes of records to check for any variances in performance. I played everything through a Bose home theater system, and the sound quality didntdisappoint (even at an excessively loud volume).At $279, the price is right. If you look at other turntables with similar features and design, youll find that this is a pretty good deal.Unless you are trying to be a professional DJ, this is a great deck to consider buying.What I Dont Like About ItThe built-in pre-amp is goodbut not great. I tested this against my own pre-amp, and my pre-amp made the system soundsignificantly better. If youflip the phono switch on the back of the turntable and then runthe RCA cables through your own pre-amp, you might have better sound results (as was the case for me). The sound is still good with the default pre-amp, but you might be able to make itsound even better with a little customization.I also wish the package camewith longer RCA cables. The pre-packaged cableis pretty short, so you might need to buy something longer depending on your home stereo setup. Fortunately, I had spare cables so this wasnt a huge issue, but I could see this causing frustration for some users.My biggest complaint about this turntableis what happens when you get to the end of a record. The record player doesnt actually turn off, and the tone-arm doesnt have a retractable feature.This is a little irritating as it forces you to manually stop the record player aftereach listen. Ive always likedrecord players that with stop when they finish or stay on and have the arm manually retract.Bottom LineThe Crosley C200 is a great turntable, and I highly recommend checking it outit if you are in the market for a new record player.If the first turntable you bought was a cheaper, less sturdy one, and you dont want to break the bank on a super high-end model, the C200 is a great upgrade.This is not a professional level turntable, but its not priced or designed to be that way.The design is great, the price is fair, its easy to set up, and it sounds wonderful. More advanced features like pitch control are there if you want them, and the devicesshortcomings are minor. The only reason Id pass on thisdevice is because itlacks a retractable tone-arm.Hopefully this is the start of something bigger for Crosley as they attempt to lasso more advanced users.