These days, everyone seems to have a unicorn list. And why wouldnt they? The number of privately held companies to pass the billion-dollar valuation mark has soared so dramatically in recent years that its nearly impossible to keep track of them or make sense of their unprecedented financing rounds.Will most of them explode? Areprivate and public markets convergingin a sustainable way? And where in the world did BeiBei suddenly come from? (BeiBei, if you havent been paying attention, sells baby and maternity clothes. The Hangzhou, China-based outfit also holds the dubious distinction of gaining unicorn status faster than any other company. Though its now 17 months old just it said it was valued at $1 billion all the wayback in January of this year when it closed on $100 million in Series C funding.)You might imagine that CrunchBase  ourwidely visited AOL sister property (it will soon be a standalone property)  has been paying attention. In fact, today, the division is releasing its own unicorn leaderboard, and it has a whole lot of bells and whistles that should excite industry news junkies.Want to understand just how new  and massive  this unicorn phenomenon really is? Check CrunchBases numbers. From 2005 through 2008, threeprivately held companies came to be valued at a billion-dollar plus. You know the names because they were alone in their class at the time hitslikeFacebook and LinkedIn.By the end of 2010, there were suddenly six billion-dollar companies. By end 2011, there were nineteen. In 2012, there were 9. In 2013, there were 12.That seemed like an awful lot at the time. Little did we know then that astunning 55 companies would join theunicorn club in 2014, according toCrunchBase data. More mind-blowingly, 63 companies have been tacked onto the list this year. The chart above, shows 158 unicorns in total. This includes 144 that are operating unicorns, and 14 that have exited.Thats a whole lot of big numbers being assigned to companies without, seemingly, a lot of exit options.Its for that reason that CrunchBase designed its new unicorn leaderboard in a way that helps userstrack which companiesare beginning to stumble, and who has fallen out of the race altogether.Its easy to see, for example, that Good Technology, not so long ago valued at $1.2 billion, was just acquired by Motorola for $425 million in cash. You can also tracethe path of otherunicorns that havedisappeared, including a couple that sold atfire-sale prices. (Yes, were talking about the electric car company BetterPlace and formerly high-flying flash-sale site Fab.)The leaderboard can also show visitorswhojoined the unicorn club most recently. As of this writing, thats the SaaS company Apttus, the car-sharing service BlaBlaCar, and the mobile identity management service Okta.As an added bonus forventure geeks, CrunchBase now makes it easy to see which investors have most actively investedin unicorns(and at what stage they acquired those holdings).Right now, for instance, Sequoia Capital has the lead by a long shot, participating in75 different funding rounds for its unicorn portfolio companies. Others in the top 10 include Accel, which joined55 rounds; Andreessen Horowitz, with 46; Tiger Global Management, with 42; Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, with 36; Lightspeed Venture Partners, with 34; Greylock Partners, with 34; Khosla Ventures, with 31; Benchmark, with 25; and T. Rowe Price, with 25.If youre really curious about who owns what,you can find a list of every investor that owns some part of a unicorn right here, care of CrunchBase. But go ahead, play with it yourself and let us know what you think. Also note that CrunchBase has a staff of 25-plus people who are available to help reporters and others make the best use possible of its fancy new product. You can reach out to its staff here:feedback@crunchbase.com.Thanks to theteam, JD for design,Kelsi Kamin, Ruochen Huang, David Kang and CrunchBaseanalyst Cory Cox, for all their work on checking and rechecking the data to compile this leaderboard.