Y Combinatorhas helped over 800 startups come to market that are today worth a collective $30 billion (and possibly even more very soon). Now it looks like a new VC is emerging out of it that will be dedicated to help the most promising of these grow.TechCrunch has learned of a new VC fund called Crystal Towers. Backedby several YC founders, itwill start out with between $90 million and $100 million to invest inthe most promising YC companies out of every batch.A firm called Crystal Towers Capital Fund TI, L.P. at the end of Junequietly filed aForm D, but foronly part of that amount, $27.5 million. Sources say that the totalsum was raised in a week.The name Crystal Towers comes froman apartment complex in San Francisco where Y Combinator founders have lived.Crystal Tower has also been referred to as Y Scraper, another name that was weighed up for this fund.The Form D notesAlex Bangash as managing director of the general partner.Bangash isan LP in a number of different funds and is also a founderof Trusted Insights, a network for investors. That network happens to bealso partlyfunded by two YC partners, AlexisOhanian and Garry Tan. (Initialized Capital, their firm, is not investing in Crystal Towers, however.) TI Platform Fund, where Bangash is also the MD, is also listed as a general partner on Crystal Towers Form D. Its ownfiling in May noted that it had raised $6 million of the $25 million it sought.And two other filings for Crystal Towers affiliates round out the fund size to the number we had heard. Crystal Towers Capital LP filed a Form D for $40 million, with $25 million of that sold so far. It lists Tikhon Bernstam as the managing member of the general partner.Bernstam was the co-founder of YC startups Parse (sold to Facebook) and Scribd.Another Form D, for $10 million ($10 million sold), is for Crystal Towers Capital Associates, also lists Bernstam as a GP.Taken all together, these Form Dstotal $102.5 million.Crystal Towers is not associated in any formal capacity with Y Combinator, our sources say, even though the acceleratoris the thread that connects the founders and its target investments.In addition to Scribd and Parse, companies launched viaY Combinator includeJustin.tv(which went on to become Twitch and sold to Amazon), Stripe and Airbnband Dropbox.Those names alone  and the funding, valuations and overall success that they and others at YC have achieved  speak to some of the force of the acceleratorup to now.But theway that YC companies get early funding has been changing. Under the leadership of Sam Altman, YC hasswapped out its previous YCVC model where a very selectgroup of VCspitched into the initial round, in favor of an LP model where YCraises the larger pool on its own and invests$120,000 in each startup for a 7% equity stake.The idea is that this was meant to level the playing field for those investors who were not a part of that select group, and to reduce signalling risk if a VC doesnt invest againin a later round.I think this is a pretty natural next step for successful YC founders and good for the ecosystem, onesource says. Better and more startups will exist if there are more seed investors who are fast acting and benevolent, and ideally were founders themselves so they can help a lot. The YC alumni are perfect to be exactly that.The other thread to the story is that YC itself appears to be gearing up to become a more proactive investor in the companies that pass through its accelerator program. Not much has been said officially about theY Combinator Continuity Fund, as it appears to be called,but it too filed a Form D for an unspecified amount of funding. The Information is reporting that it may be in the region of $1 billion.Crystal Towerswould not bethe first time that people associated with YC have started a separate investment fund. Initialized Capital, foundedby YC partners Alexis Ohanian, Harjeet Taggar and Garry Tan, raised nearly $40 million in 2013. Itsinvestments are not limited to YC companies. Initialized has alsostopped investing in startups coming out of YC.Update:Story updated with more funding information. We will continue to update this story as more information becomes available.