Fashion-savvy wearable jewelry startupCuff announced a new partnership with one of the largest jewelry manufacturers in the U.S. today. Cuffis teaming up withRichline to create necklaces, bracelets, earrings and other fine jewelry items for everyone from Tiffanys andQVC to Macys.Think of it like Intel Inside for computers but this is using our CuffLinc technology inside the jewelry, explainsCuff founder Deepa Sood.This partnershiphelpsCuff supply its technology to retailersthroughout the country.Richline,a wholly-owned subsidiary of Warren Buffets Berkshire Hathaway, deals mostly in fine jewelry items. This is a significant partnership for Cuff, not only for Richlinesvast retail partners, but also because it opens Cuff up to the world of fine jewelry customization. Cuffhad been working within the lower end fashion jewelry realm before the deal.Sood mentioned the licensing possibilities to us back in February. The idea was to allow designers and retailersaccess to implement the tech around their own lines.The Richline deal gives major retailers access to Cuff technology.Jewelers will be able to create jewelry itemsusing the CuffLinc Bluetooth low energy technology to do things like turn off house lights oralert security about a break-in. Cuff has also implemented health and fitness tracking into the tech now. Sood says Cuff is consideringintegrations with at least 5 different fitness apps at the moment. One of those is Apple Health.Sood sees this as a fashion milestone in wearable tech. She has a point. Wearables have largely focused on health and fitness and have been designed with sweat in mind, not your every day office attire.Richline retailers are reluctant to release sketches of the first products to ship this year, but onecould potentially see a a diamond-encrusted Tiffanys bracelet sold on QVC that tracks calories and steps throughout the dayin the near future out of the deal  should that float your boat.Others have taken note of this design problem. Ringly is a smart fashion ring that was created to not looklike a giant computer on your hand.The ringvibratesnotifications fromyour phone. Those wearing the ring get a buzz on their finger when someone texts, calls or emails. MEMIis a fashionable smartbracelet thatdoes much of the same. Tory Burch created a prettier Fitbit bracelet and necklace designed with fashion in mind.Cuff is close to sealing the deal on a $5 millionSeries A, led by NEA, to help further its technology and help push it mainstream. Other investors include Tandem Capital and Tugboat Ventures. Tandem previously gave an undisclosed seed round of funding to Cuff.The co-branded products from Richline retailers will ship soon and say Powered by Cuff.