Apples new set of diversity emojiattracted a lot of attention when it wasreleased in all of itsglorious shadeslast week. But what comes next?What is beyond the emoji?The tiny animations() have become popular for personalizing text messages, WhatsApps, status updates, tweets, etc.  butone company believes that people shouldhave the tools to be even more expressive at the tip of their fingers and thumbs.Imoji, the app that launchedlast yeartolet you make stickers out of anything (within reason), is hoping to make its repository ofcustomized emojis (which I will henceforth call stickers) the industry standard. The startup justannounced an SDK that grantsthird parties access to its library of over 3million stickers (yes, 3million) without cost.Imoji said it is in discussions with a handful of other, undisclosed partners. It hopes that these deals, which are not financial,will go towards makingits catalog of 100 percent user-created stickers as ubiquitous as emoji.Stickers represent a basic vehicle for communication, it goes beyond mobile messaging and includes games, dating apps, and more, Imoji co-founder Jason Stein told TechCrunch in an interview. Custom emojis live wherever people communicate.Imoji takes a very different approach to the so-called sticker pioneers in Asia. While messaging apps Line and Kakao Talk charge users to download premium sticker packs, and offer free content sponsored by brands for cheapskates, Imojis collection isentirely user-generated and available totally free of charge. (Line, to be fair, does offer a selfie-sticker app  the Japanese company has never said how many selfie stickers have been created, though we suspect its number is far fewer than 3million.)The mandatory collage of me using the app looking sillyIf Imoji stickers are free to createanduse, then how will the company make money?Imoji, which has raised $2 million from investors to date, is not currently focused on monetization.In the future, it couldoffer services to connect brands with its users  although not through a branded stickerapproach.Stein explained that, since Imoji users make very specific enquiries when searching, there could be opportunities to surface brands against specific search terms. He added also that a possibilityto monetize exists around location.For example, if users are creating custom emoji at a sports event, theres a chance to connect a brand in a meaningful way, he said.Search is our biggest metric [and it could present] an opportunity to work with really amazing brands, and figure out effective, non-obtrusive ways to serve content, fellow Imoji co-founderTom Smith added.At this point, Imoji is focusedongrowing the reach of its sticker catalog, which explains theSDK. Stein and Smith believe that theevolution of stickers will go to user-generated content, just like the way YouTube disruptedTV.We believe a toolkit approach rather than a menu is the most powerful thing you can offer, Stein explained.The company got a boost last month when it was named among the initial partners for Facebooks Messenger Platform. Stein and Smith revealed that more than70,000 stickers were created during the first five daysfollowing the launch of Messenger versionsof its apps.Stickers first took offin Asia, where they gained attention as a means to express emotion, not to mentionavoid tapping out messages on aphone typing non-Romanic languages isa lot tougher than English. Its interesting that they appear to have a different usage inthe West, where they are less cartoonish and expressive, andoften memes, selfies or comical images.If my general observationis right,then a gigantic repository like Imojis could have value in the U.S. for offering something different/beyond regular emoji. I do think user-generated stickers are a little too shallow for most users in Asia, though, because theres no much meaning when I send my face to a friend.That said, Imojis big bet isnt Asia  its that it can be the primary platform powering stickers in the U.S. and other Westernmarkets. Gaining traction and engagement are key to turning its free service into a monetizable business, and it will be interesting to see which companies tap into the SDK and bring its collection outside of its app and (potentially) to a larger audience.The startup isnt alone in chasing this opportunity, however. Rival Bitstrips launched its custom emoji appand raised $8 million back in October. There is a key difference between the two: Bitstrips cartoonizes images, while Imoji is free-form  though you can edit the borders around your creations before you immortalize them inside the Imoji app.App developers and content companies can get more information about the Imoji SDK, and apply to be a partner, at the companyswebsite here.