Londons  and Europes  crowded startupacceleratorsceneis getting a new addition. Not fintech-related, this time. Rather thefocusiscyber security.The Cyber London (CyLon for short) 12-week program, has beenco-founded byAlex van Someren ofVCfirm Amadeus Capital Partners, who previously founded U.K. cryptography company nCipher and has advised the U.K. government on various tech issues; along withJonathan Luff and Grace Cassy, co-founders of strategic technology consultancy Epsilon Advisory Partners, who also bring foreign and security policy experience to the table, including working with No.10 Downing Street.CyLons program will be managed by theIgniteaccelerator, and isbeing run as a not-for-profit, financedby a variety of sponsors  including Amadeus andEpsilon; along with global hedge fund Winton, and international law firms Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer; andFried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson none of whomwill betaking equity in the selected teams.So this is about proximity to promising security startups to help with deal flow in the case of investors, and the chance to pick up future clientsin the case of the legaland consultancy firms.AlthoughLuff stressed there wont be any limits placed on the startups in terms of who they can or cant work with.CyLonalso has anadvisory board to help steer theprogram. This hastwo members at launch: namely Passion Capitals Eileen Burbidge, and Jon Bradford, MD of the Techstars London incubator program.Passion Capital has some skin in the security game already, via b2b cyber security portfolio companyDigital Shadows. Burbidge also has a personal interest in security, with a private investment in secure messaging app Wickr. Shes been banging the drum forthe U.K. to domore in the security space for a while now  putting her mouth where her money is, and vice versa.imho we shld do one in Ldn (anyone interested?) MSFT establishes cybersecurity accelerator in Tel Aviv http://t.co/zPveRKmRrG by @benjrooney Eileen Burbidge (@eileentso) September 16, 2014Thecriteria for choosingteams to enter the CyLon business bootcamp are being left quite broad, according to Luff,to maximize interest and help establish the program. We are defining this as cyber and information security technologies or products. That is quite deliberate because we want to encourage a good number of people to take an interest in the program and to apply, he told TechCrunch.Startupsselected to go through CyLon will get 5,000 to cover their living expenses, and be based ina 4,000 sq. ft. co-working space provided by Winton in Hammersmith, West London.We are going to be looking at applications over the next month to six weeks and well be looking for the kinds of things you would expect from a strong accelerator and an incubator program: people with interesting ideas in interesting areas, able to demonstrate that theyve got the skills required to develop those ideas, Luff added.He saidthey expect to take about10 startups in the first intake, and are looking to run two programs per year. Financing from the program sponsors has been secured for one year at this point, and theyre not yet looking beyond that at this point  intending to see how CyLon runs in year one.The idea is to start relatively small, said Luff. We want to have the broadest possible field of applicants. So part of the way its been set up, the fact were taking no equity, the fact its being run in the way it is, is intended to give the largest number of relevant teams the opportunity to apply. But Id be surprised if there were more than 10 teams in the initial program.The not for profit thing is because we want it to be a platform for the best possible participants. We recognize that its not a horizontal project where youre just out there looking for the best possible commercial startup, and where youre taking an equity stake in that business with a view to a big upside. This is rather different We want to have a kind of level playing field, he added.CyLons launch PR claims it asEuropes first business accelerator program and incubator space dedicated to developing and supporting cyber security startups. Luff saidthe timing is right for this to happen because of how Internet security issues have generally been propelled up the agenda  for consumers and businesses alike.Most people now are far more aware of this issue and its importance, he told TechCrunch. Not just as an economic, commercial opportunity of its own, but the important bit  its importance in relation to the wider economy, and the impact that good cyber security, good information security will have for an increasingly digital economyI think that awareness has grown very rapidly, recentlyIts an initiative whose time has come.With an increasing amount of our personal and professional and commercial interactions taking place online there is, both from businesses and individuals, a much greater appreciation of the need to understand how these things work and to have access to good and user friendly technologies to help people operate in a secure way. And I think the U.K. is really well placed to develop those technologies and those services.There are some good vertical [security] programs that I am aware of in other parts of the world but theyre not structured in quite the same way that this one is, Luffadded. Theres Mach37 in Virginia, and theres a program in Israel but again run with a different structure. Weve tried to put together the right team and structure for the U.K., and I think the U.K. leads the field in Europe with respect to this area of technology.Why should security startups come to London? Being located withina global financial services hub is of course one potential draw, with banking companiesobvioustargets for selling encryption and other security tech innovations.U.K. government intelligence agencies also evidently have money to spend on security.In a speech yesterdaysetting out economic priorities for the South West region of the U.K., the Chancellor George Osborne said the government wants to create what he dubbedan arc of cyber excellence from the headquartersof theGCHQ intelligence agency at Cheltenham, through the cities of Bristol and Bath to Exeter  with the aim of making the south-west a world leader in cyber security services.I can tell you today that GCHQ are investing 3 billion over 9 years into developing the next stage of national cyber intelligence.Theyll work with hundreds of small businesses, strengthen their existing ties with leading south-west universities, and recruit hundreds of new cyber specialists to work across this regional cyber arc, Osborne added.So there could bea substantial amount of U.K. public money earmarked for cyber intelligence tech in the coming years, depending on whether the next government agrees with these investment priorities a portionof which will apparently be up for grabs byrelevant startups.Howeverthere are some strong cross-currents pushing in the opposite direction too, given thosesame U.K. intelligence agencies areconflating national security with dragnet digital surveillance. Last year thehead of GCHQ warned publicly about the dangers to national securityposed by Internet companies use ofsecure communications effectively making an appeal to themnot to useend-to-end encryption.Morerecently, thecurrent U.K. Prime Minister, alsosuggested he wanted toban encryption or elsecoerce Internet companies tobuild inbackdoors for spooks to access user data.So the highest levels of the U.K. government have beencalling for cyber security to be diluted at source. That, surely,will give somestartups working in this area pause for thought when it comes to buldinga credible cyber securitybusiness in London.Trust and credibility in the security space are paramount. And other more security-minded European locationsare available (thinking of Berlin, for instance, with Germanys robustattitude tosecurity and privacy; or Switzerland, which enshrines a right to private email and communications in its constitution). Unless of course youre planning to sell your cyber security servicetoGCHQLuff declined to comment when asked specifically for his views on Camerons attacks on encryption, but made some general comments about setting upa security incubatorin the UK.Well test whether there is an appetite for these kinds of technologies and companies developing here, he said, adding: Were really confident that theres a lot of talented developers and early stage companies producing technologies that are designed to support and secure people operating in a digital economy, digital landscape.CyLon takinga broad approach to what it wants to incubateis probably going to help, given thatan umbrella label likecyber security can containand refer tomultipledifferenttechnologies and services. And indeed, might evenencompasstechnologies that could be utilizedbyintelligence agencies to gather signals datawith the apparent goal of bolsteringnational security at the same time as robust encryption systems that are aimingto do the opposite: i.e. keep eavesdroppers out.The U.K. evidently haspowerfulorganizations with money to spend in both of these cyber security camps  but whether one side of the coin erodes business developments on the other remains to be seen.Your points a reasonable one, added Luff, when I point to this public-privatedisconnect. I think its right to ask that question but I really think there are so many advantages for a technology company to operate in the U.K. and to operate in London that Im confident well see lots of talented teams coming through the program.