YC-backedCymmetria, which is uncloaking fromstealth now after around a year working itscyber security startup business, wants totilt thetraditional security odds so its hackerswho are left feeling vulnerable and on their guard  by giving the businesses whose systems are under attack a home advantage.How does it flip the attacker/attackeddynamic? By creating decoys which are embedded into the networkand designed to draw hackers to them, making itquicker and easier for a business todetect and mitigate a security breach. And harder for a hacker to know whats what.Ive been sitting on this idea for several years, really, waiting for the right timing, says co-founder Gadi Evron, who used to head upthe Israeli governments Internet security operation, and has also worked in senior security roles for PwC and Kaspersky.I got somewhat exhausted with the security industry. From various directions.In a way were very defeatist  we go to work everyday knowing that the attackers will succeed if they just want to. That eventually they will get in. Two and a half years ago people started saying the words assume compromise. Assume the attackers already inside. And then suddenly we all discovered that is not just the perception but rather the reality of how things actually work.High profile hackattacks make the news every week. Right now the attention is on the U.S.Office Of Personal Management data breach. Last yearamassive Sony Pictures hackwhich leaked all sorts of salacious celebrity gossip into the public domain via a dump of the stolen emails turned into a media feeding frenzy. A hugebreach of retailerTargetssystems in whichmillions of customer credit card details were reportedcompromised,back in 2014, hascost the company some$162 millionpurely in expenses  minus any class action lawsuits.Earlier this year health insurance provider Anthem fessed up to a data breachlikely compromising the personal data oftens of millions of its customers. The list goes on.Every day there is another data breach, saysEvron. That was very frustrating for me personally. Cymmetria was born out of that sense of frustration  with the team hoping toshakeup a reactionary status quotebydoing something inherently different in the security industry, as Evron puts it.Their focus isAPT attacks. Aka: advanced persistent threats  where attackers, perhaps State-sponsored, are aiming to get into anetwork and lurk undetected for a long time in order to steal large amounts of data.The first value proposition is essentially one alert  one critical alert, he says, explaining how Cymmetria works.Current solutions generate thousands upon thousands of alerts every day. We generate one because our decoys are real machines and nothing should run on them except for what we put on them. Which exactly means that if anything now runs on that computer that is not ours that is a 100 per cent indication there is an attacker now in the network. There areno false positives.At that point Cymmetria also performs forensic analysis on the attack, and offers an action planon how to mitigate it  using a companys existing systems and security infrastructure, with which it integrates. Its not the only decoy-based security startup out therebut Evron argues thefocus on integrating with a business operations and processes makes its approach distinct.There are quite a few startups out there that are in the same active defense or cyber deception space but I cant really say that any of them are working exactly the way we do it. Some of them just deploy decoys across the network, some of them are trying to use SDN technology for datacenters. We havent really seen anybody out there trying to approach this from a management perspective and a business perspective, he says.We automate forensics. They now can know what attack an attacker used, vulnerability credentials, Trojan horse, everything the attacker did  where they connected on all the networks, they already have ready made information becoming available to them, he adds, noting that the typical security scenario is that a breach isnot detecteduntil long after it has occurred  whereas Cymmetria is able to flag it up if not quite in real-time, then in asignificantly reduced timewindow.You get immediate information that you can start using immediately to mitigate.What are the decoys exactly? Virtual machines, making them indistinguishable from any other machine on the network, according toEvron. Cymmetrias approachalso doesnt require companies to install on premise hardware or putagents on computers or change existing network structure. As near to plug and play as possible is the idea. He says a generousestimate for getting the system up and running is just aday.Essentially they are real machines. Theyre machines just like any other. They could be a CEO laptop, they could be a super secret backup. But essentially attackers are going to see computers around the network, computers and other types of resources around the network that are simply not real  and theyre not going to be able to distinguish whats real and whats not, he adds.We dont mimic. Thats exactly the point. We create real machines  we use the world of virtualization. Ten years ago if an attacker would see a virtual machine theyd say thats a researcher, trying to mimic a real machine. Today, when you look at organizations, a lot is in the cloud. Local cloud with virtualized environments. Global cloud like Amazon, Google, whatever. But essentially these are part of the corporate network. Theyre just regular machines. So as long as my machines are just like any other machines they have no way of distinguishing.The system uses a series of breadcrumbs to lead attackers to the decoys. When the attackers try to spread through an environment they essentially look for certain things. These signposts or breadcrumbs are whats going to lead them towards the decoys, is howEvron explains this element, careful not to give away too many signposts (given the game of smoke and mirrors it intends to play with attackers).The primary target market for Cymmetriais large enterprises and Fortune 500 companies, plus financial institutions and banks  although security is generally rising up every digital business agenda. Ithas several early users at this point, including a major U.S. bank that its working with as a design partner  so tailoring the system to meet their needs while using their feedback tohelp shapethe software. Its first user deployment was thisFebruary. Evron says it hasnt yet encountered an APT attack with thisinitialgroup of beta users.In terms of funding so far, Cymmetria has taken in early investment from several angels, YC, Seedcamp and U.S. VC firm Felicis. The business model is a multi-layeredSaaS. We support different types of models for different types of customer, says Evron. From on premise to the cloud, we support it all.Cymmetria isthe first Israeli security company to be selected byY Combinator. The team will be presenting at demo day at the end ofAugust, when it will be looking raise its next round and start to scale up and grow the business.