Datameer, the big data analyticscompany builton Hadoop, announced a $40 million Series E round today led by ST Telemedia, an investment firm based in Singapore. Top Tier Capital Partners, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Redpoint Ventures, Next World Capital and Software AG also participated. Todays investment brings the total raised to over $76 million.The company deliberately went with a firm based in Asia for this round to achieve aprimary goalofexpanding into Asian markets, Datameer CEO Stefan Groschupf told TechCrunch.ST Telemedia (STT) has deep connections to the types of companies Datameer tends to work with such as telecommunications firmsIn fact, a big data company like Datameer is an atypicalinvestment for STT, but its more than a simple financial transaction in this case. STTis also planningto use Datameer technology across its investmentportfolio, Groschupf said.Big data is so fundamentally changing business and they wanted to get on board with a big data analytics company, he said.The majority of Datameers200 customers are from North America with about 20 percent from the EU and a smattering from Asia. Customers include Citi and Bank of America, as well as British Telecom, Telefonica and Comcast.He said to this point, he has primarilygrown his company by takingon a relatively modest amount of investment capital  $36.8 million over four rounds before this announcement  while running mostly on revenue raised from sales. He believes the company hasgone about as far as itcan with this approach,and needed additionalcapital tomoveto the next level.The money could actually lay the groundwork for an IPO.Ithink that in a couple or three years, we can be at a revenue size that the next major finance event (an IPO) is coming. We are building a team out to make a sustainable company, he said.In fact, he sees his company on akind of mission. We believe big data analytics is key to making the world a better place, he said. To that end, hesaid Datameer is trying to build a product that has a positive impact on customers.We are insanely focused on customer support and being a company that holds to what it promises, he said. It evenlists its core values on its website.Datameer plans to use some of the money to add employees. It currently has around 160, but hopes to have between 220 and 230 by years end. He admits that finding quality employees isnt easy.One of the most difficult things in building a great company is hiring. Hiring truly great people is really challenging. You are basically meeting someone threeor four times and you need to make a decision if you want to marry them.The company has offices inSan Francisco and New York. Its engineering team is based inHalle (Saale) Germany.