Databricks, the commercial company created from the open source Apache Spark project, announced the release of a free Community Edition today aimed at teaching peoplehow to use Spark  and as an adjunct to the free online courses (MOOCs) it created last year.The free version is a limited edition without all of the advanced featuresyou would find in the enterprise-pay version.The company is providinga single Spark micro-instance for anyoneinterested in learning how to work with the big data processing tool.The MOOCs wereamazingly popular with 50,000 people starting the course and a full 20,000 going all the way through to completion including all the labs and tests, Ali Ghodsi, CEO and co-founder at Databricks explained.When the company saw this level of interest in learning about Spark, it decided to develop the Community Edition as acomplementto the courses. By combining Community Edition with the MOOCs, Databricks is providing a way for people to learn about data science and Spark regardless of income or location. All they need is access to a computer with internet access and themotivation to completethe courses.Students can access basicDatabricks functionality including creatinga micro cluster, playing with the cluster management tool and creating a notebook and dashboard. If they wish to go further with larger clusters and more advanced functionality, they can simply swipe a credit card and move up to one of thebusiness tiers.Ben Horowitz, co-founder and general partner atAndreessen Horowitz, one of Databricks investors says the Community Edition substantially lowers the barrier for understanding big data and analytics.Before the release of Community Edition you had to either build your own cluster or pay thousands of dollars per month to learn how to do data science and advanced analytics such as machine learning, Horowitz said in a statement.Instead, thecompany is usingAmazon Web Services to provide the computing resources for students to build and store clusters. Itis able to do this and controlcosts by using a highly shared environment, which the company manages very carefully.We are sharing machines to drive down cost considerably. They are shut down if you are not using them, so we can reuse [the resources]. We used this [approach] for one of the MOOCs under the hood and it worked remarkably well, Ghodsi said.Its not all about altruismthough. The company believes that by training more people to use Spark and offering these tools for free, theycan turn many of these students intopaying customers  and theyve found the approach has worked with the MOOCs alone. Combining it with the free Community Edition should increase that.Its an excellent lead source. The truth is it makes a lot of business sense, he said.Databricks plans to add three additionalclasses this year, and hopes to train at least100,000 people through their MOOCs over the next year. It could be areachable goal, especially with the free Community Edition helping to drive usage.