Big changes are afoot at one of the premier angel investing firms, as David Lee is stepping down from SV Angel after multiple years as managing partner at the firm. With his departure, Topher Conway will be moving up to the co-managing role alongside his father, according to an email sent to SV Angel limited partners, founders and partners.Lee joined SV Angel after a stint at seed-stage venture firm Baseline Ventures. Prior to that, he was a founding member of Googles New Business Development team. He also served as head of biz dev at StumbleUpon prior to its sale to eBay. According to the email, Lee is leaving to spend more time with his family, following a move to Los Angeles two years ago.The departure makes way for Topher Conway to bump up to co-managing partner of the firm. Recently named to a list, Topher has been working with SV Angel since 2009 and now appears ready to take over SV Angel when his father Ron is ready to retire. Before joining the family business, Topher served as part of the business development team at EQAL.Other than that, it appears all else remains the same in the partnership, as Brian Pokorny, Robert Pollak and Kevin Carter will continue to invest as general partners at the firm.The email is below:To SV Angel Limited Partners, Founders and Partners,Effective today, David Lee will be resigning his role as Managing Partner of SV Angel. David has made a personal decision to spend more time with his wife, children, and extended family in Los Angeles.  Effective immediately, Ron and Topher Conway will serve as co-Managing Partners of all SV Angel funds.SV Angel will continue to cultivate the best and the brightest founders in tech and add value to their companies as we have been doing for more than 20 years. Our fund portfolios continue to remain very strong and we are optimistic about the companies in which we have invested and the prospective companies we are seeing daily.SV Angels talented partners  Ron Conway, Topher Conway, Brian Pokorny, Kevin Carter, and Robert Pollak  remain committed to the continued success of the SV Angel funds and to supporting entrepreneurs. SV Angel is the preeminent angel fund because entrepreneurs have always been and will always be family.While we can all share in many historic successes and wish David well, the best is yet ahead.Sincerely,
Ron Conway  Founder & Co-Managing Partner, SV Angel
Topher Conway  Co-Managing Partner, SV Angel
David Lee