DCM Ventures, the early-stage, cross-border venture firm, has scored many hits by sticking it out in China since nearly its 1996founding, even as many competing firms because they were unable or unwilling to invest the time in local relationships  have come and gone.Among the many China-based companies backed early on by DCM areRenren, Dandang, and Vipshop, all of which held highly successful IPOs and have since grown into far bigger outfits. Vipshop, for example, went public in 2012 with a market cap of $600 million. Today its valued at $8.4 billion.Still, even DCM cofounder David Chao acknowledges that right now, investing in the country hasmore than a few challenges. Yesterday, we chatted about the current turmoil there, as well as where Chao plans to focus more of his attention this year.TC: Happy New Year. Also, how nervous are you about whats happening China right now? You spend a considerable amount of your time there still, dont you? DC: I spend between 30 and 40 percent of my time there. Look, theres a definite slowdown, but I do think the world is a bit too jumpy. Youre talking about an economy  the second largest in the world  thats still growing 6 to 7 percent annually, compared with a lot of developed countries like the U.S. and Japan that are barely growing. Also, if you look at Japan or the U.S., when it went through a recession over the last 10 years, we lowered our interest rates and we pumped a lot of money into the economy through [quantitative easing]. Meanwhile, China has a lot of room still to lower its interest rates. It has a lot of macro cards left to play.TC: So its slowdown is overblown, in your view? DC: Theres no question that it has hit a hew phase. For a decade, it was growing at 10 percent. Now its 6 or 7 percent. Of course youre going to feel a slowdown. Labor costs in major cities are rising rapidly. Agood programmer or engineer in Beijing used to cost a quarter of a Silicon Valley engineer and now, arguably, for junior employees, its maybe 80 percent. A lot of areas, including smart phones, are also slowing down in terms of penetration. Even still, Ithink these market jitters are exaggerated.TC: What about valuations? There are still enormous dealsbeingannounced out of China. Are you still shopping as actively there? DC: The last two years, there was a bubble in the U.S., China, Japan, and even Korea. Its kind of unusual to have all go through a bubble at the same time, but it was all growing overheated.Alot of the financing announcements that youre seeing now were probably deals that got done in September or October of last year and finally closed. In the U.S., youve had these companies going public below their private market price, and in China, theres kind of a similar phenomenon going on in the later-stage market where people are much more cautious about paying into high-priced rounds. A lot of the term sheets that were out in Q4 havent closed, and theres been a lot of pricing negotiations going on.In terms of harvesting, its a little tougher right now. But we stick to our knitting. Were still investing in [regional] seed and Series A deals and new companies.TC: What else are you investing in, or planning to invest in? DC: VR is a new platform thatwas underrated for a long time andisfinally coming to fruition. [Our investment in] Matterport in the real estate space [it creates 3D visualizations of physical spaces] isdoing well. Everybody is making cheap VR machines, like Google. The smart phone guys are making their products adaptable to VR. Its going to go from an esoteric technology to something real and usable and I think it has a much better upside than any platform to come out in the last two years.TC: Is it still largely a U.Sphenomenon? DC: The hardware is being manufactured in Asiabut the applications, the newest greatest developments, are happening in the U.S.That said, I think China and Japan will catch up quickly because the killer app will probably be games and these vertical solutions [like Matterports] and movie-like content, and a lot of that will start to be produced worldwide, just like mobile apps were produced worldwide.TC: What other than the budding VR ecosystem are you tracking?DC: Cannabis. California is about 50 percent of the U.S. market, and aballot that would legalize the recreational use of marijuana for adults in California will most likely pass in November, just like in Colorado, and we see a whole new economy growing around that.Just like you have smart phones, youll have certain vaporizers and other hardware that will be easy to use. Like you have VitaminWaterand soft drink brands, youll have cannabis brands. There hasnt been a lot of investment so far; people have been conservative because of the nature of how it would be perceived, but come November, a new world will open up.