Did you miss the deadline or just forget to get early-bird tickets to Disrupt London? Youre in luck! Were giving you one more week to stop procrastinating and get your tickets for 400 off the total retail price of 1,200. Youll hear wonderful things from some of the best and brightest investors, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists in the business at Disrupt, includingworld-class footballer Thierry Henry, Postmates CEO Bastian Lehmann, and Rocket Internet CEO Oliver Samwer. You can check out our entire lineup of amazing speakers here.Then theres the highly coveted Startup Battlefield, a competition in which a few dozen companies pitch their ideas to our panel of incredible judges, as well as investors, entrepreneurs and innovators and the thousands of people following along on the live stream.Battlefield companies have done extremely well post-Disrupt, raising around $5.7 billion with a total of 69 exits. Several prominent companies have been through the Battlefield, including Yammer, Dropbox, Mint Layer and Postmates, among many others.And if the speaker talks and Battlefield competition arent enough to convince you to come to disrupt, there are also hundreds of early-stage software and hardware companies on display in Startup Alley. These companies will pitch their wares to the crowd of attendees walking the floor as they look to build relationships, hire talent and attract investors to help take their products to the next level.Disrupt is really the best place to be if you want to network with the best and brightest minds in tech, and see some great startups displaying amazing new stuff for the first time. So what are you waiting for? Head over to our ticketing page right now to snag a ticket at the early-bird price of 800 plus VAT before the prices jump on November 13.Disrupt London runs from December 7 to 8 at the beautiful Copper Box Arena, and we hope to see you there.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.