Consumerdemand was there for Amazon Prime Day, but the dealsdid not deliver. At least, thats the sentiment beingshared on social mediaaboutAmazons first-ever attempt at creating its own sales holiday  one which the company had promised would feature more deals than Black Friday.In celebration of Amazons20th anniversary, Prime Day was meant to somewhat replicate the post-Thanksgiving sales rush in the U.S., or perhaps Chinese e-commerce companyAlibabas Singles Day but one that took place viaAmazons own website and apps.Unfortunately for Amazon, the event has not been met with great feedback so far.A number of shoppers stayed up late to be first in line for Amazons e-commerce sales, butfound themselves disappointed by the quality of the deals offered when Prime Day arrived. That led to manyjoking about how Prime Day looked more like an online garage sale or yard sale, instead of the big event Amazon intended.Typically,during Black Friday and Cyber Monday shopping events, retailers tease door busters to draw crowds who then scoop up other items the stores want to unload.But outside of some decent enough smart TV discounts, it seems that Amazons best Prime Day deals were those where it had cut the prices on its own products.For example, AmazonsFire TV stick was reduced from $39 to $25; Kindles were slashed from$79 to $49; the Fire HD7 tablet was $79 down from $139; and Amazonsconnected speaker Echo was $129 down from $179.Unfortunately, byearly Wednesday morning, many of these deals were already sold out, consumers soon discovered.Those who popped over to Prime Day during lunch breaks or inthe early a.m.on theWest Coastwere out of luck.Instead of being able to buy these limited-quantity deals, consumers were being offered the option to join a waitlist for the items. Amazon had said it would stagger the deals throughout the day, but as of 3 p.m.EDT, the Amazon hardware deals had just dwindled down to almost nothing. The only thing left at the time of writing  at least in terms of Amazon hardware sales  is a $79 Kindle Fire HD6 (usually $99.)First reaction to #PrimeDay? If I wanted to be on a waitlist, Id apply to college again. Walmart site seems easier to navigate than Amazon. Paul R. La Monica (@LaMonicaBuzz) July 15, 2015Well done Amazon, the only deals I was really interested in were sold out before I woke up. #PrimeDay  Dave Bohnert (@copiedline) July 15, 2015Other promotions also tended to feature savings on Amazons own products and services, likea $30 gift card when you boughtthrough Amazon Home Services; $10 in credit when you bought a gift card multipack; $15 off Amazon Warehouse deals; and so on.Meanwhile, as the Amazon hardware deals disappeared in rapid succession, theAmazon Prime Day landing page heavily promoted the companys typicalLightning Deals, which led to shoppersseeing big ads about run-of-the-mill purchase opportunitieslike 20% off dishwasher detergent, or $5 off razor blades when you subscribe & save.Someon Twitter made jokes about the various Lightning deals offered, quipping about how they could finally buy some cheap vitamins, cup holders or other random items. News sites even rounded up some of the more bizarre savings they spotted,while others tried at least to share lists ofbetter dealswiththeir readers.But even on Wirecutters handy resource forPrime Day deals, the site found itself pointing to non-Prime Day related sales, like a discounted printer they just happened across while looking for deals, or a Walmart saleon a Fitbit Charge HR, which turned out to bebetter priced than Amazons. (Walmart had planned its own sales event to counter Amazons push.)Twitter filled with complaints from consumers who lamented that Amazonsdeals were boring, they couldnt find anything they wanted to buy, that the savings werent stellar, that the only things they wanted were sold out, and so on.How #PrimeDay looks to me pic.twitter.com/37nbebEiBY Cory Shaw (@coryshawty) July 15, 2015Is it me or is #PrimeDay not that serious? Its more like a Marshalls clearance bin. Oh great, $0.15 savings on an off-brand cup holder.  Robert Britt (@RobrtAnthony) July 15, 2015So far #PrimeDay looks like killer savings on USB cables and paper towels. Aaron Thacker (@yourdp) July 15, 2015#PrimeDay is a joke. Boring items, not that great of savings. Disappointed  Tregg Player (@TreggPlayer) July 15, 2015#amazon #primeday so far hasnt shown me any savings at allnot impressedI was looking to be wowed  now im sad Charlotte Gilbert (@CSSGilbert) July 15, 2015Some pundits argued that despite its failure to win over consumer sentiment, Amazon was able to score a ton of data about products in demand in light of the rush to shopon Prime Day. Thats good, in case Amazon ever wants to try this sales event again. It definitely left room for improvement.Whats interesting, however, is how significant consumerdemand really was for the promotion  something thats hard to see through the Twitter snark.Amazon claimed early in the day that its Prime Day peak order rates passed that of 2014s Black Friday.Around mid-day, the company said thatPrime members hadalready bought tens of thousands of Fire TV Sticks, 35,000 Lord of the Rings Blu-Ray sets, 28,000 Rubbermaid sets, and 4,000 Echo devices in just 15 minutes. AKate Spade purse was gone in less than a minute, and it sold 1,200 of the $999 TVs in less than 10 minutes.But third-party data also paints a picture of what that consumer demand actually looked like today.According to ChannelAdvisor, for example,Amazons daily sales in the U.S. were up around 80 percent as of noon Eastern over last years figures, and sales wereup 40 percent in Europe.Weve been averaging year-over-year growth in the ~25 percent range, so this is a significant jump that we are already seeing mid-day, notedScot Wingo, ChannelAdvisor chairman.However, he added, We are seeing some negative social media comments as the deals are selling out very quickly, and that can leave buyers frustrated when a lightning deal they are excited about goes out of stock very quickly.In addition,Amazons mobile applications saw significant movement up the charts on iTunes and Google Play on Wednesdaybecause of Prime Day. For instance, the U.S. iOSapp jumped from No. 21 Overall yesterday to No. 5 today.In other words, consumer demand was ripe for Prime Day. Users were either downloading the app for the first time, re-installing it, or installing it on a new mobile device wherethey hadnt yet added it.According toDanielle Levitas, SVP of Research and Analysis at App Annie, chart movement like that is consistent with what retailers would see around the Black Friday/Cyber Monday shopping cycle.In general, within a single storeit could be at least a doubling of downloads to drive [an app] into the top 10, Levitasexplains. In this particular case, were talking about at least a 3x jump for Amazon in terms of what it took to get it into the top 10. The app passed Instagram and newcomer Musical.ly to reach its high-rankedposition, which would have required a significant number of downloads, Levitas also noted.On Google Play in the U.S., Amazonsappdidnt quite reach as high a ranking (its at No. 14 now), but in absolute terms, the download volume for the app was even higher than it was on iOS.What these numbers indicate is that consumers were at leastinterested in checking outAmazons deals. But how many ended up actually converting to Amazon Prime members, or how manywill now become actively engaged customers in the long-term thanks toPrime Day, still remains to be seen.