This year, my New Years Resolution was to finally cut the cord. The timing is right, and the content selection available today on streaming services make the process much less painful than it was in years past. Theres plenty to watch  a glut of quality shows to keep me entertained for years, in fact.Meanwhile,my vastly reduced Verizon bill is the biggest payoff to come from the whole experience yet.Im now two months into the adventure, which Ive documented here previously. (Read Part 1 & Part 2 here).To summarize, I ditched Verizon cable TV, kept my FiOS internet service, and generally watch TV via Netflix, Amazon and Hulu Plus  all of which I pay for.I invited readers to share their stories with me, and the responses have run the gamut  with everyone from teenaged TV viewers who cuddle up with laptops in bed, or supplement TV programming with YouTube videos and Twitch, to senior citizens watching over-the-air programs and not much else, to resourceful tech geeks figuring out how to turn old computers into DVRs and so on.But one of the biggest pieces of reader feedback Ive received to date had to do with antennas. There areincreasing numbers of antenna userswho have given up traditional television in exchange for free, over-the-air programming. For many, augmenting streaming services with free, live TV is just how its done.I took a different path, though, choosing only to rely on streaming services. And people couldnt believe it!An antenna felt like a band-aid to me, or perhaps just another kind of cord  one that didnt cost anything, but kept you tied to traditional, appointment TV. A device that existed because the streaming services cantdeliver everything you need at this time.Dont get me wrong. I do understand there are gaps still to be filled. Its nice to have an antenna for watching live sports (though I dont) or big events (like the Oscars), or because you justcant wait until the next day to watch the latest episode ofThe 100 (or insert your favorite show here).But most of what the antenna provides  network programming  is either available on streaming services like Hulu, or can be bought via Season Passes on iTunes or Amazon, for example. For me, the antenna just doesnt feel essential. Your mileage may vary.However, one thing that interested me about the antenna option was how it could be combined with a different type of DVR  one designed to record programs over-the-air. If this works well, you could theoretically ditch Hulu and still have access to much of the network programming Hulu offers. Of course, that would mean that you have tolive without Hulus original programming, its expanding back catalog of older shows and its movie selection. You might not be willing to give all that up.But if you primarily subscribe to Hulu just to watch a handful of new primetime shows, the DVR option is intriguing.Plus, with DVRs, youre not dependent on Hulu scoring alicensing deal with a givennetwork for its content, which is something thats still an issue today. For example, CBS keeps a lot of its topshows for itself. If you try to watch them on Hulu, the service redirects you to CBS.com instead. Thats because CBS wants you to upgrade to its CBS All Access service in order to watch more full episodes than it provides for free.These content battles are always a challenge, and being dependent on streaming services alone meanyou often lose access to a show.Oh, and lets not forget the best thing about DVRs: you can fast forward through the commercials!This week, I tried out the Tablo DVR, which competes with offerings from TiVo, Simple.TV, and others.Like some of its competitors, Tablo works with your own USB hard drive. That gives you some flexibility in terms of storage capacity, but it also leads to a sort of junky-looking entertainment center where youve now piled on two more boxes where before, with your old cable TV subscription, you used to have just one.Setting It UpThe DVR also requires an antenna in order to work. I plugged mine into the Mohu Leaf 50, which was able to pick up more channels than my old antenna did. ButI have to admit I findhaving anantenna aesthetically displeasing, despite this being one of the better options when it comes antennas that blend in with walls, and are thin andeasy to hide behind furniture. It just so happens that my walls arent white like thisantenna, and theres no furniture in my entertainment nook thatcan hide it. However, thanks to the included tacks, its easy enough to mount.Hooking up all the pieces to the Tablo DVR system isnt hard  you plug in the antenna, hard drive and power plug. You can also plug it into ethernet, if you choose, but most will probably set up the system over Wi-Fi.To get going, youdownload a mobile application to your iOS or Android device, or use a web browser to begin the setup process. Setup is simple enough  following the on-screen instructions, I connected my iPhone to Tablos Wi-Fi network, then configured it to use my home FiOS Wi-Fi by selecting it and entering the password.During the first-time setup, Tablo will also needto format your USB hard drive. This can take up to an hour, says the company, depending on the size of your drive. You can, however, continue the setup process while the formatting runs in the background.You also need to go through the process of having Tabloscan for channels, much like what you have to do on a TV before you can watch over-the-air programming. This seemed to run a little slower than when I did the same thing on my television set directly before I hadthe DVR. But after a few minutes, Tablo found my local channels, helpfully identifying them with red, yellow and green dots, so you can determine which are of high enough quality to be worth adding.When the scan is complete, you check the channels you want toadd them to the guide. Here, I did run into an issue  some of the channels I checked (which were green and fine to add) didnt seem to make it into the guide the first time. That was frustrating not only because I had to then re-scan the channels and repeat the process again, but also because the process of updating Tablos guide is painfully slow.At first I thought there was no progress indicator for the guide update, until I realized a few minutes later that the very smallblue dot on the left side of the screen was actually the beginning of what ended up being a very slow-moving progress bar. To give you an idea, the company says that the download takes several minutes per channel added.And its only downloading the first day of programming! The remaining 13 days are downloaded in the background, and afterwards, the guide updates take place overnight.Still, these issues were more of a one-time challenge, rather than ongoing problems. However, the takeaway was that while Tablo might be something Id recommend to a fellow TechCrunch reader who can handle software that has a few kinks, I might not be prepared to recommend it to say, my mother-in-law or my dad at this time.Using The App To Watch TV, Schedule RecordingsAfter the setup completes,using the app to browse live TV, schedule or view recordings is easy. Navigation is self-explanatory. There are sections for Live TV, Prime Time, TV Shows, Movies, Sports, Scheduled, and Recordings,allowing you to find what you want to watch fairly quickly. The guide itself is also searchable, and you can filter it by new programs, genres or channels, much like you probably didwith your cable companys TV guide.Some of these views, however, including Prime Time, Movies and Sports, are only available to Tablo subscribers, asare the filters on the guide itself (New, Genres, etc.). Things like the cover art used on TV shows thumbnails and episode details are also only for subscribers. It seems the company is not gently pushing, but rather shoving, its users to itspaid tier.Meanwhile,when selecting a channel to watch live, theres a bit of delay. Its just long enough to have you wondering if the channel is not coming in, or thinking youhave some other technical problem.Recording programs, though, is easy  you just tap the REC button next to a show.If you dont have a subscription, you have to record programs manually. Only subscribers can schedule recordings, with the ability to set recordings by series, season, or bynew episodes.Subscribersalso have access to live TV guide data for 2 weeks in advance and can watch Tablo DVR content from outside the home.The price is$4.99 per month for this, which is less than Hulu Pluss $7.99 per month if youre thinking of switching.Watching AnywhereWhile cable companies are still working to scorecontent deals that allow them to bring live TV to mobile devices both inside and out of the home, the nice thing about Tablo is that you can watch TV from anywhere. You can watch from a computer or phone via a web browser, from an iOS or Android tablet, or even on the big screen via Roku, Chromecast or Apple TV (via AirPlay). And if you pay, you can watch live or scheduled shows when youre not on your homes Wi-Fi through the Tablo Connect feature.The flexibility is nice, especially because, as a cord cutter, you find yourself watching TV from a variety of devices and locations, since youre no longer tied to a sofa and big screen. Tablo easily fits into this lifestyle.While this is only one of several OTA DVRs on the market today, the question you may be asking is not really whether Tablo is right for you, but whether or not an OTA DVR is right for you.Tablos glitches are not so bad as to not make itworth the investment (currently ~$200.00 plus the optional monthly fees)  especially if you find yourself missing the ability to record shows, or have a huge aversion to commercials.That being said, the softwareitself is imperfect (and its Roku app is ugly!). It lags in between screens sometimes and isnt always as responsive as youd hope. AndTablo practicallycripples itsfree application.Plus,the quality of recordings  of course, this depends on signal strength and other factors  was sometimes less than ideal.The differences in the brightness and clarity of a show that came in solidly over-the-air and thatsame episode bought and paid for on Amazon were remarkable. Amazons copy was vastly better. You get what you pay for, perhaps.Id say thatif youre still heavily dependent on your antenna, and find yourself watching a lot of network TV or sports, having an OTA DVR is definitely useful.As for me, however, Ill probably only use it for myoccasional live TV needs, and maybe a handful of special event recordings.Most of what Im watching is either a Netflix or Amazon-hosted series, or something Im specifically subscribing to via a Season Pass. There are only a small handful of currently airing shows I need to see.In the end, live TV, and the ability to record from it, seems like a transitional step in betweencable TVs heyday and the on-demand future of television. Its nice to have for now, but eventually, everything will just stream.Email me your cord-cutting story, or your Netflix recommendations: sarahp@techcrunch.com