Its now been over threemonths since Ive adopted the cord-cutting lifestyle,thanks to finally following through on a longoverdue New Years Resolution. Today, my TV diet largely consists of streaming video fromthe top three services, Netflix, Amazon Prime Instant Video and Hulu Plus. I also find myself watching TV from more devices, including iPhones, tablets and laptops, now that Im no longer tied to my living room TV and DVR combo.At this point, watching television sans cable is no longer a strange, scary or confusing world, but has become more of a routine. Its interesting how quickly you can adaptto change, once youre willing to let the old waysgo. That being said, there are still some challenges todays cord cutters face, which has compelled me to start a list of resources for those on a similar journey.Note: This is part 4 of an ongoing series of articles about cord-cutting in 2015. You can readPart 1,Part 2, and Part 3 here.Thisseemed like a good week to return to mycord-cutting saga, given the release of Nielsens latestreporton the video streaming market, which found that two in five U.S. households now subscribe to a streaming service like Netflix, Amazon Prime or Hulu Plus.Netflix proved to be the most popular choice, with 36% of households subscribing. But Amazon Prime has been growing quickly. Its now in second place with 13% of households, up from just 3%last year. Hulu Plus, meanwhile, came in at 6.5%.In total, over 40% of U.S. homes had a subscription-based video on demand service as of November, and 13% of homes subscribed to more than one, like me.These subscribers spent more than 10 minutes daily on average watching time-shifted television than typical TV homes, and tend to be higher-tech households with young to middle-aged members. Plus, due to their use of technology, they tend to have higher incomes than traditional TV households.Its worth noting, however, that being a subscription service user doesnt necessarily mean youve cut the cord with cable or satellite television  at least, not yet. But it does mean that youre likely spending less time with traditional TV viewing, which declined nearly 10% in the second half of last year.In other words, were still in the very early days of the cord-cutting trend. Most people are only decreasing their traditional TV consumption, or shaving the cord, as weve explained previously. But theyre still keeping their payTV subscriptions.Why?Well, beyond the hassle of actually having to call in and cancel, the most frequent questions I get when I tell people I cut the cord are those about the financial aspects involved.I cut the cord after myVerizon cable, phone and internet package promo period expired, and I had found myself paying nearly $190 per month for all my services combined. These days,my FiOS internet bill is only $65.00, as Ive dropped both phone and TV. On top of that is Netflix ($7.99/mo for me; new subscribers pay $8.99/mo), Amazon Prime ($99/year), and Hulu Plus ($7.99/mo).The thing is, Im at the point where I would pay for Amazon Prime annually anyway for the free, 2-day shipping, so access to Prime Instant Video is just icing on the cake. And because you pay that fee just once per year, it doesnt feel like youre paying for the service monthly. That means my monthly expenses for internet and streaming services are around $81 combined, not counting Amazon.Of course, your mileage will vary depending on the broadband package you choose, your ISP, and yourstreaming services lineup. That brings me to the first resource on this list: a handy online calculator for figuring out if and how much youll save by cutting the cord.I came across Slates calculator for cord cutters by way of a random Google search, and its definitely going to be a useful tool going forward, too, as I may decide to add other services into the mix, like the newer Sling TV, for example. Or HBO Now.To use this calculator, you need to know how much youre paying currently, and how much it would cost you to buy just internet access alone. Then you pick and choose from a variety of streaming services to figure out your total expenditures. The calculator shows you how much you save per year by ditching cable. (And ifyou see a number of over a thousand dollars, as I did, its hard to argue that its not cost efficient todo so!)You dont have to be a cord cutter to enjoy Plex, but its definitely the kind of service that will help once you make the transition. Really, I cant say enough good things about this service, which lets you stream your media to any device, including your TV.Most of us by now have a collection of media, like videos, TV shows, music, photos, and movies, that we have saved on our computers or external drives. Plex offers an attractive interface for organizing thiscollection, and letting you stream it to your device of choice, whether thats a Chromecast, Amazon Fire TV, Roku, Android TV, game console, smart TV, laptop, mobile device, and more. The service also keeps track of what youre watching, so you can pick up again at the same point even as you move between devices.A cloud sync option for subscribers ($4.99/mo) lets you sync your library toonline sites like Dropbox, Google Drive, Bitcasa and Box. Meanwhile, Plex Sync, also a paid feature, lets you store content locally for when youre planning to be offline  like during air travel.In addition, Plex offers a number of channels that connect you to online content, like that from Vimeo, TED, YouTube, SoundCloud, plus TV networks like CBS, CNN, Comedy Central, Disney, HGTV, Lifetime, MTV, PBS and PBS Kids, The CW, and more. You can also watch your recorded programs from someDVRsdesigned for recording over-the-air content, like theTablo.However, the ability to watch from my personal collection of content is the reason I turn to Plex the most. For cord cutters  or anyone really  this option is useful because not all of your favorite shows are available via streaming today.For example, I was trying to re-watch Battlestar Galacticarecently, and found that it wasnt on Netflix or Amazon Prime Instant Video. This forced me to dig out my old hard drives to find the ripped versions I had on hand. Plex helped me turn this offline collection into something I could stream and easily take with me anywhere.Online video platform Pluto.TV, backed by over$13 million from USVP and others, is an interesting newer service that lets you watch over 100 TV channels online, as well as on mobile, tablet or on TV via devices like Chromecast, Fire TV, Apple TV, Rokuand others.The channels are organized by interest into categories like music, sports, entertainment, comedy, lifestyle, tech, education, kids and more. These are presented in an online channel guide type of interface, where you can scroll through the various options much like you would on a traditional TV guide.Pluto.TV isnt a service youd use to tune into primetime TV, of course, as its shows come from online sources like YouTube, Vimeo, Daily Motion, Funny or Die and elsewhere. But it can be an interesting source for internet video and more niche content, like if you want to watch headline news, Minecraft videos, popular webseries, GoPro videos,amix of comedic content from Comedy Central and elsewhere,viral videos from YouTube, or just videos of cats (???), for instance.There are also a ton of music channels, including those dedicated to individual artists, like Nicki Minaj or Madonna. And there are sports channels for things like surfing, kickboxing, snow sports, fighting and more.After setting up your free account, you can favorite channels to make your own customized lineup, and you can receive notifications when your channels have new shows. You can also share clips and channels as well as record shows to view later. In time, the service may expand to include other, premium content in order to generate revenue.However, Pluto.TVs design is a little busy for my tastes, I have to admit. But since its free for now, that makes it a compelling alternative to something like the paid service Vessel, from Hulus former CEO.I prefer Vessels interface over PlutoTV as it offers a more modernhamburger style menu and pop-out navigation that lets you drill down into new releases, popular videos, categories, music, or by channels and shows.However, Im not sure Im the right demographic for this service. Vessels pitch is that it wants to provide subscribers with early access (at least 72 hours) to videos from YouTube stars and othersfor a small (currently, $2.99/mo) fee. This not a bad idea  U.S. teens today are more engaged with and enamored ofYouTube creatorsthan they are withHollywood stars. In fact, a Variety survey found that the five most influential figures among those 13 to 18 were all YouTube faves.Given the teensobsessions and Vessels affordability, I can see it being able to convert some portion of that audience to subscribers.However, on the flip side, teens are very budget-conscious. They can sometimes go to great lengths to avoid paying for access to streaming video, in fact. Take a look through the (demographically youthful) site Tumblr just before a popular teen TV show airs some evening, for example  the kids are begging each other for livestream links in the shows hashtag. These livestream sites are often janky, ad-filled and sometimes even virus-infected websites and the user experience is poor. But teens make do because theyre free. And in the end, Vessel is trying to sell access to something that will be live on the web  for free  in the near future. That could prove a tough sell.Vessel, which is still in beta testing, has courted a number of YouTube stars and those from other sites to sign up and participate, in exchange for a portion of the revenues it makes via its subscription service and ads.The site serves up popular content from vloggers, musicians, and publishers like Time, Fortune, EW,BuzzFeed, The NYT, The WSJ, Financial Times, People and more. You can follow your favorites in order to personalize your guide, or use the search bar to find specific interests.For now, Vessel is available only on the web and on iOS devices, but in time it will work on more platforms, the company says.Another big challenge with cord-cutting, which I alluded to earlier, is not knowing which shows are available for streaming versus paid download, and where they can be found. Thats where the aggregators and finder services come in. A number of sites available today help you locate shows and movies, telling you if they can be streamed at all, and if not, how much it costs to own them.Ive found a few of these to be useful at times, namelyCanIStream.it,Yidio,JustWatch, WheretoWatch,Instantwatcher, andFlixfindr, to name a few. However, the one Ive found myself turning to the most is the Yidio mobile application.Unlike the Yidio website, which could use an updated design if Im being honest, Yidios app is much more user-friendly. When you first get started, the app prompts you to add some of your favorite shows and theapps (services) you use for streaming, like Hulu Plus, Netflix, Amazon, Crackle, HBO GO, etc.Afterwards, youre presented with an interface where you can browse or search for TV shows or movies. The main screen shows you whats trending and new, while other tabs let you drill down into movies or TV shows specifically. The feed section lets you see when theres new content from your favorite programs, and which service hosts it.But I find I use Yidiomore often just to find out where a show can be found online. Unfortunately, Yidio isnt always 100% accurate. For instance, there are times it suggests that the only way to view a show is by purchasing it on iTunes when, in actuality, you can purchase the show from Amazon, too.Still, the reason I turn to it more often than others is because its a native mobile app, not a website. I tend to watch TV with phone in hand (or nearby), so its easier to access from the living room couch. And when someone makes a TV series suggestion while Im out and about, its simpler to pull up Yidio than search by title across all the top streaming services to find who has what.The above are just a handful of the apps and resourcesthat can be useful for cord cutters, but theyre among my personal favorites for now. I may choose to add to this list in time, as I adopt more services.Send meyour favorite apps and sites for cord cutters (or your Netflix recommendations): sarahp@techcrunch.com