There are two potential audiences for Sling TV, Dish Networks relatively new internet TV service aimed at cord cutters: those who have wanted to ditch their cable or satellite TV subscription, but couldnt imagine living without ESPN or its flagship show, SportsCenter, and then everyone else who has contemplated cord cutting in general. For the first group, Id say fine  do it  $20 per month for Sling TV combined with Hulu and Netflix couldstill undercut your pricey cable TV bill. For the latter group, however, Id advise a more cautious approachfor the time being.As part of my cord cutting journey, which Ive been documenting through a series of posts on TechCrunch, Ive been testing Sling TVs internet TV service. For over a month, Ive used Sling TV on my desktop, mobile devices and my Roku. The service actually runs on a variety of platforms: Mac, PC, iOS, Android and number of streaming media players, including also the Amazon Fire TV, Nexus Player, and Xbox One.At its core, Sling TV is a tentativestep in the right direction. It represents an unbundling of the too big, and too expensive, cable TV packagesthat have been forced onconsumers for years. Instead, you can get a smaller package of some of cables better channels for an affordable price,and then pick and choose othersyou want to layer on top.Sling TV offersa basic package of cable TV channels for $20 per month, including ESPN/ESPN2, AMC, A&E, TNT, Food Network, History, Travel, TBS, HGTV, Disney, CNN, Bloomberg, Lifetime, Cartoon Network, and more. You can then optionally subscribe to variouschannel packs for an additional $5 per month to add more sports channels, kids channels, movie channels, or Spanish-language channels to your Sling TV subscription.You can also add HBO for another $15 per month, which makes it one of the few places you can subscribe to HBO without a traditional cable to satelliteTV package.Slingsservice, though only live to thepublicsince February, has already grown to 250,000 subscribers, according to some reports. And while previously it had been said that Slings skinny bundle would be capped at 2 million subscribers, Sling TV CEO Roger Lynchsays theres nothing preventing Sling from continuing to grow its business.There is no programming partner that I meet with  and I meet with all our programming partners  that have expressed any interest other than how can you grow my business?The world is moving on to new technologies like this, and theyre embracing it, he claims.But Sling TVsservice doesnt offer everything you can get via cable. For news junkies, for example, know thatMSNBC and Fox News are missing, thoughyoull get CNN, HLN, and Bloomberg. There are also no broadcast networks included with Sling TV.In other words,you cannot use Sling TVto fullyreplace your cable TV subscription. If you still want to watch the big networks, like ABC, CBS, or NBC, for instance, youll either need to get a digital antenna to capture TVsignals over-the-air for free, and/or buy a subscriptionto another service like Hulu for expanded access to network programming.Today,there are a handfulthings that are frustrating about Sling TVs implementation, which runin counter to the broader trends around cord cutting, as well astime-shifted andon-demand TV viewing.For starters, Sling TV for now is largely a live TV service. That is, its mainly offering an internet-powered TV experience where you flip through channels to see whats currently airing, instead of being a place where you can search, discover and watch full seasons and back catalogs.In most cases, that means yourewatching shows in real-time.Like many DVRs, youcan pause, skip backward or forward (if youre not caught up to where the show is live) on some programs, but not all, due to rights issues. You cant skip the commercials, like some DVRs allow for (including Dishs own with AutoHop), and you cant record favorite programs to watch later, like most pay TV subscribers can today with their DVRs.And Im not sure whats worse  having to watch commercials, or having to sit through messages that the program will be right back,which occur today when watching ESPN.Some of these problems are being addressed now, or shouldget better in time. For example, the odd commercial break messages are the beginnings of a new way ofsellingadvertising. Instead of national TV ads, Sling is testing dynamically inserted ads that are demographically and regionally targeted, explains Lynch. The company is trialingthis first with ESPN, but the end goal would be to roll this out to all channels in the future.This is the holy grail for our channel partners and advertisers, Lynch notes. Meanwhile, he says, for consumers, TVads will become more personalized and more relevant as this becomes the new standard.And as for the live TV-driven nature of Slings experience, that should also improve in the future. The problem today is that streaming rights area complicated landscape. Some networks, like Scripps (whose channels like HGTV and Food Network come with Sling), produce their own content and give Sling a broad set of rights, while other channels license content from another company, and these programs may have different rules around things like video-on-demand (VOD) offerings.However, as those licensing deals come up for renewal, theyre being adjusted to include broader expanded viewing windows and betterVOD rights as companies adapt to the streaming TV age. And as those deals are amended, the expanded rights will trickle down to Sling TV.For now, however, these varying rights lead to inconsistencies in terms of whats available.Sling TV today does offer some previously aired programs for on-demand viewing. But youre never certain which programs you can stream on-demand, or how many prior episodes will be available.For example, SportsCenter is only available when live, which may not be a huge deal given its news-like nature, but a search for HGTVs House Hunters returns 6 episodes for on-demand viewing, Disney Channels Jessie spits back 7 episodes, Historys Ancient Aliens returns 3 episodes (from 3 different seasons!), and so on. Other shows then surprise you with a full season. You get the idea.The networks themselves are sometimes to blame for this problem. Disney told us, for instance, that its Disney Channel audience isnt as interested in catch-up viewing, so it only features some recent episodes for Disney Channelshows. But its ABC Family audience is more interested in the catch-up feature, so it offers a five-week window for replay. (But this wasnt universally true, I found. While ABC Familysshow Pretty Little Liars returned 5 episodes as expected, other shows brought backmore or fewer. E.g., Young & Hungry returned just 3. Freak Out, 6. Both have over a half-dozen episodes under their belt, however!)Despite its emphasis on live streams, Sling TVs apps dont offer a simple TV guide to see whats airing now. Instead, available programming is grouped in a sidebar menu under categories like Sports, Entertainment, Lifestyle, Family, News, and HBO/Premium.When you click on one of those categories, youre taken to a screenwhere instead you click through channel logos with program details beneath them, and then click on Watch Now if you want to start viewing a show. Effectively, its like flipping through channels with a TV remote, but with a lot more steps involved.I suppose its not hard to figure out, exactly, but its not well-designed.That, too, may change in time.The company has brought on Digitalsmiths (acquired by TiVo) co-founder and CEO Ben Weinbergeras Chief Product Officer, and hes tasked with improving the user experience on Sling TV, including making content discovery easier as the catalog grows.During testing, I ran into other problems as well. Sling TVssearch serviceerrored out for no apparent reason at times (see below), which was frustrating because its the bestway to reach the back catalog. Other times, it failed to find a show that you know you saw available in the guide earlier as being available on Sling TV.In other words, if youre used to the simplicity in navigation and search thats provided by services like Netflix, Amazon Prime Instant Video or, in some cases, Hulu (though it often suffers from similar issues)  where you find a show and then canbinge your way through a whole season  Sling TV is not for you.The TV streams themselves played okay  I never ran into trouble where they werent available, though Sling has struggled with this in the past. But they sometimes didnt appear to beof high quality  on the Mac app, the video was blurrier than it should be, but they were better on my iPhones smaller screen.Theres another huge issue with Sling TV Ive yet to address  you can only watch it on one device at a time. So basically, forget about letting the kids stream Disney in their playroom while you enjoy SportsCenter in the living room. It doesntwork.Meanwhile, Sling TV competes with cable subscriptions where you can pay extra to hook up boxes in separate rooms, as well as with streaming services like Netflix which let you stream to multiple screens  even up to 4 on Netflixsfamily plan.A one-streamlimitation in a multiscreen world is, well, crazy.Complaints aside, there are some benefits to Sling TV, starting with the price. Plus, becauseit straddles the on-demand streaming video world and that of pay TV, you are able to use your Sling account to log into some TV apps that typically require authentication via a pay TV service. For instance, you can log into apps like WatchESPN (online and on native mobile), as well as apps like WATCH Disney, WATCH Disney Jr. and WATCH Disney XD (soon).(I should note that I raninto errors with WatchESPN on the web, but this could be due to my test account, and they later were resolved.)Another benefit is that Sling TV offers movie rentals from its service. The movies range from $2.99-$4.99 in price which makes it competitive with competitors.But as with Amazon Video, you cant rent movies directly from your iOS device  you have to first rent them from another platform before you can watch them on your iPhone.The biggest benefit of all, of course, is that you can get ESPN for the first time ever over the internet, and on your many devices.Despite all its flaws, for sports addicts looking to cut the cord and save money, Sling TV should not be outright dismissed.For $20 per month you could haveESPN and ESPN2 viathe core package, plus more channels (ESPNU, ESPNEWS, ESPN Goal Line, ESPN Buzzer Beater, ESPN Bases Loaded, BeIN Sports, SEC Network, Univision TDN, and Universal Sports) through the $5/month Sports Extra package; andthe ability to use the WatchESPN app. And you can watch on all kinds of devices, from TVs to phones.Thats not an awful deal for live sports fans.Still, theoverall experience of using Sling needs improvement  from the user interfacedesign to the VOD catalogto thefeature set and beyond. Sling TVs software and service may get better. Right now, its usable, if not delightful.More importantly, though, when you tally the numbers, you might find youre able to pay less for aSling TV subscription  even when combined withother streaming services of your choosing to round out your cord cutting line-up  compared withwhat youre paying todayfor your cable or satellite service. (Most consumers cable bills are in the $85-90 range, on average.)Whether the bottom line is more important to you than the feature set and functionality, however, is something youll have to decide for yourself.Email me your cord-cutting story: sarahp@techcrunch.com