Earlier this year, Viacom-owned kids network Nickelodeon announced its plans to enter the subscription video market with its own over-the-top streaming service aimed at the preschool crowd. Called Noggin, the service launched this March on iOS with a decent selection of titles, including a few popularnames from the kids TV market, like Blues Clues.The question now for parents is whether or not Nicks entry is worth the additional investment, especially when many today are already paying for Netflix, Amazon Prime (which includes Prime Instant Video), andpossiblyHulu.Note: This is part 7 of an ongoing series of articles about cord-cutting in 2015. You can readPart 1,Part 2,Part 3,Part 4,Part 5and Part 6here.As a recent cord cutter myself, Im continually evaluating the increasing number of new optionscatering to those who are ditching their cable TV subscriptions in favor of streaming services and connected devices like Roku, Apple TV, Fire TV, Chromecast and more. I personally subscribe to Netflix, Amazon Prime Instant Video, Hulu, and HBO NOW, which gives me more than enough content to watch. Plus, I have a digital antenna hooked up for my rarelive TV needs.But since Im alsothe parent of a five-year old, I was definitely intrigued by the idea of a streaming video service thats designed exclusively for younger kids.Unfortunately, Nickelodeons strategy with Noggin is not to offer a full lineup of the Nick Jr. networks programming over-the-top, but to serve as something of a complement to its flagshipstreaming video application, Nick Jr. That appoffers a handful of TV episodes to all users, then allows those who pay for a cable TV subscription to unlock additional episodes by authenticating usingtheir credentials from their TV provider.For Noggin, though, what this means is that Nick Jrs most beloved kids characters and shows, like Dora, Diego, PAW Patrol, Max & Ruby, Peter Rabbit, Bubble Guppies, Wallykazam, Wonder Pets, Yo Gabba Gabba, and many others arent available in the new app for cord cutters.Instead, Nickelodeon has stocked Noggin with lesser-known, older brands, like Pocoyo, Franklin & Friends, Ni-Hao, Kai-lan, Robot & Monster and more. There are also music videos and episodes from Moose & Zee, who kids might recognize as the characters who do the educational bits in between Nick Jr.s television shows.In other words, for $5.99 per month (compare withNetflixs $8.99 per month), Noggin isnt offering Nicks premium content. That makes its price point feel a little steep, in my opinion. I think even knocking a dollar of the costwould make me more comfortable with the option, as I could justify the expenseby saying it was either this or one more Starbucks latte this month.The App Store reviews are also brutal on this point  the parents dont seem to understand Noggin is a subscription service to begin with, and expect free content. They then give it a 1 star review when they realize you have to pay. Those who dounderstand its a subscription service seem to thinkthat $5.99/mo is too high.In addition, the shows themselves came across as a little fuzzy(see screenshot), even over a strong home Wi-Fi connection, hinting atproblems on Nicksend.That being said, with 16 sections (shows and music) to choose from, each with dozens of videos to watch, theres a lot in Noggin for kids to explore. Plus, it could be thatitsparents who place more value on the draw of the premium brands. Kids are often happy to watch unknowncartoons and shows with characters they dont recognize, simply because theyre new.In fact, during tests this month, my daughter spent hours watching what I had first thought was Nicks attempt to create additional content for its streaming service on the cheap. Theres a Noggin show called Oobi where the characters are just peoples hands with little eyeballs attached to the knuckles to give them a puppet-like feel. The characters talk in simplified speech and act out things like going camping, eating vegetables, getting a puppy, washing up, and more.As it turned out, Oobi is actually an old show that ran from 2004-07. In fact, most of the titles come from the old Noggin network, which was later rebranded Nick Jr. The app is basically tapping into the archive of these rarely aired and cancelled shows, adding the newer Moose & Zee episodes, and then trying to make a buck.The current shows in Noggin include: Allegras Window, Blues Clues, Blues Room, Franklin and Friends, Gullah Gullah Island, Jacks Big Music Show, Little Bear, Miss Spiders Sunny Patch Friends, Ni-Hao, Kai-lan, Oswald, Pocoyo, Robot & Monster, The Upside Down Show, and Moose & Zee.A protected parents area in the app allows anadult to configure various settings like whether to stream over Wi-Fi or cellular, and lets them turn off additional sounds like the background navigational sound effects or music, for example. (Whew, thank you.)But theres no need to configureparental controls likeon Netflix, because all the content on Noggin is kid-friendly. However, theres also no option to configure time limits, in case you want to limit your childstime watching videos. (Arguably, parents who need this option can justyou knowparent, instead.)Theres also something to be said for the comfort of knowing all the shows are kid-safe. Thats a problem thats been plaguing YouTube Kids in recent days, even sparking complaints to the FTC. And Hulu offers a kids section, but lacks parental controls, which means I found my five-year old watching Cartoon Networks Adventure Time this week, much to my horror. That show, rated TV-PG, is meant for kids twice her age!If Noggin was just a little cheaper, I think Id keep it around. But adding a fifthpaid optionto my streaming service line-up when it doesnt include the Nick Jr.sbest content is not something I want to do long-term.Noggin ($5.99/mo) today competes with the major players, Netflix ($8.99/mo), Amazon ($99/year) and Hulu ($7.99/mo), which each have been growingtheir own kids content selections, as well as with free services like YouTube Kids. Netflix has been expanding its kids lineup, including rebooting shows its paying subscribers will remember from their own childhoods, like Inspector Gadget, Full House, Danger Mouse, and Care Bears, for example. And through a deal with Dreamworks, it has a number of spin-off shows based on Dreamworks movie franchises.Hulu hasalso more recently bet on kids programming and justscored a notable deal for Disney Jr. content.Plus, Hulu already has a deal which makes itthe only streaming video-on-demand service to offer current seasons of Nickelodeon content yes, the good stuff like Spongebob.Amazon, meanwhile, is investing more in original kids programming via its Amazon Studios arm. Italso hasrights to some Nickelodeon/Nick Jr. content thanks to adeal with Viacom, which came about whenNetflix chose to allow its deal to expire. That means that parents looking for Nick Jr.s best kids shows can already get those through alarger streaming service  which happens to give the grown-upssomething to watch, too.That makes it hardto justify the expense associated withNoggin. However,if your cord-cutting mix includes only Netflix, for example, or your child is still very young (Noggins shows are definitely more baby-ish than Hulus), it could be worththe added expense.