Its been a whirlwind few days in Asia for Telegram, the encrypted messaging app founded by the colorful co-founder and former CEOof Russias Facebook VK.com, Pavel Durov. After Telegramwas briefly bootedfrom the Google Play store after asticker-related spat with messaging app Line, a major distributed denial of service attackhit Telegramsservers over the weekend, leading to a loss of service concentratedin Asia.Now some believe Telegram couldbe the next messaging app to provoke the ire of China and face a block in the country.Telegram claimed the DDOS attack left users of its service in Asia Pacific experiencing slower connection speeds or no connection at all for several hours over the weekend on Monday. Thats because, the organization claimed, it witnesseda surge in traffic that hit200 Gbps  which feels roughly like having 200 billion very random people squeeze into your bus every second, Telegram explained on its blog.The company, which delivers more than two billion messageseach day and claims 62 million month active users worldwide, said its service was down for five percent of entire user base globally, and 30 percent of traffic affected in Asia specifically.DDOS attacks are notoriously difficult to track and near impossible to attribute to specific culprits. Telegram believes that the attack  which seems fairly sophisticated since it was evenly distributed across thousands of servers is being coordinated from East Asia.Weve noticed a three-fold increase in signups from South Korea in the last two weeks. The last time we were hit by a massive DDoS was in late September, 2014, in the wake of the South Korean privacy scandal when signups from that country spiked as well.Weve also heard that some companies are unhappy with our new platform that allows artists to create free custom stickers for the users. Two weeks after its launch we were hit by a lesser DDoS, also aimed specifically at the Asia Pacific cluster.For those who arent aware, Korea is the home of messaging apps Line and Kakao Talk. Telegram claimed Friday that Line filed a complaint related to the use of stickers in the Telegram Android app. Google removed the Telegram app from the Play Store, only to return it hours later once the issue had been settled.@jonrussell They sent complaints to Google and Apple re their stickers. We were reacting, but Telegram was kicked out of Play Store anyway. Pavel Durov (@durov) July 13, 2015Line declined to comment on its apparent complaintwhen asked for details by TechCrunch. While the company may have objected to Telegram using its IP, itseems unlikely that the company coordinated the DDOS attack itself.Someone in China seemsa more likely attacker.Thats because, during itssticker skirmish,Telegram picked up a little notoriety of its own in the worlds most populous country.The servicewas labeled an anti-government tool in a Sunday article instate-run mouthpiece/newspaper Peoples Daily [Google Translate link].That label was applied afterthe service was reportedly used by a set of human rights lawyers who were arrested by the government on Friday. They are said to haveused the serviceand its self-destructive messaging feature, to plan protests and generally go about their work with less chance of the governments eavesdropping.We know nothing for sure, so we do not make any accusations, Telegram founder Pavel Durov told TechCrunch of the DDOS. One thing is certain: somebody powerful in Asia is unhappy. We have never seen DDoS of such scale and efficiency before. And weve seen a lot.A lot of factors sure point to China.Theres the way that the Chinese government dosed GitHub with a days-long DDOS attack because it storedinformation from internet freedomorganization GreatFirethat explained how to override censorship in the country.Then, beyond the fact that human rights lawyers (or dissidents in state-run press jargon) were Telegram users, China has a history with messaging apps. Tencent-owned WeChat is too large to be shut down, but it is subject to regular clean ups. In similar circumstances to Telegram,Line and Kakao Talk were blocked in Chinalast year on suspicion of helping spread information linked to terrorists activities.There were reports that Telegram, too, was getting blocked altogether in China over the lawyer controversy, although Durov disputes this, addingthat his company would be unlikely to fight a block from China, anyway.I dont think Telegram is completely blocked in China, but the traffic from there did decrease, he said. [But] if we do get completely blocked in China, were not going to play cat and mouse with their government at this stage. Let them block.Its an interesting position forDurov, who helpedcreate Telegram in the wake of censorship controversies in Russia, and then left the country altogether when thoseissuesbegan to intensify. It seems he prefers to lead by example rather than direct confrontation.Ultimately, Durovmay beright and theres no clear sign of who is behind the attack, however we know that Chinas attitude to internet censorship has changed. Once focused on reactive actions, these days  as its newest internet weapon The Great Cannon shows  it seemscomfortable with taking services and websites out using aggressive and offensive tactics.