Didi Chuxing, the ride-sharing firm that leads Uber in China, has denied a report that it plans to go public in the U.S. next year.Just days after Didiannounced a landmark $1 billion investment from Apple,Bloomberg today reported that the firm is eying an IPO in New York within the next 18 months. Bloombergs sources claim Didi, which is raising $3 billion more at a $26 billion valuation right now,hasnt selected an exchange or banks at this point, and that a listing is subject to how it performs against Uber in China.Didi denied the claim, and added that it has no IPO plans at all, U.S.-based or otherwise.We currently have no IPO plan, so theres no point of talking about location or schedule, a spokespersonsaid in a statement to TechCrunch.Reliable datafor the on-demand ride industry is hard to get hold of, but analysts are united in agreement that Didi is ahead of Uber in China by some margin. The company claims to have 14 million drivers and 300 million active users across its range of services, which include private cars, peer-to-peer rides, chauffeuring, bus services and more. Leaked Uber documents suggestthat China accounts for a number of its biggest cities worldwide, but it isnt clear how many users or daily rides the service has in the country.There have been rumors of a Didi IPO before. Prior to the merger of Chinas two largest Uber rivals  Didi Dache-Kuaidi Dache  whichcreated the company, Didis then-CEO spokepublicly of his intent for a public listing with the U.S. a preferred location. However, much has happened sincethe two rivals merged in a multi-billion dollar consolidation in early 2015, rather than fighting each other, the two companies have taken on Uber, which has raised billions of dollars for its entity in China, which is valued at $7 billion.Theres certainly a track record of U.S. IPOs from top tech companies in China  Alibaba, one of Didis most prominent shareholders, sits on the NYSE  but a dual U.S.-China listing would appear tomake more sense for Didi when the time comes.Didihas played upits homegrown status in China since it represents a clear distinction to Uber and could help curry favor in the regulatory battles that are inevitable with the ride-sharing business. It would seem counter productive for itto then list only in China, given the Chinese governments efforts to promote local tech companies. Indeed,forging links to Chinese companies is one credible reason put forward for Apples investment in Didi, which is certainly out of character for the U.S. company based on previous deals.Beyond needing to focuson its nationalism, a 2017 listing would see Didi beat Uber to going public  but that might not necessarily be a race worth winning. The market for tech IPOs has slowed down massively in the U.S., with no public listing from tech firms in Q1 2016. With Uber the de facto global leader (and pioneer) of the ride-sharing industry, it remains to be seen whetherlisting first could have a negative impact on Didis IPO.As The Informations Amir Efrati pointed out, much of Didis value may be derived byits position compared to Uber. Letting the U.S. firm go first might educate the market, set expectations and provide a base for a stronger Didi listing.The Didi IPO talk seems premature. Would seem to give leverage to Uber, as Uber will determine Didi's financials for some time. Amir Efrati (@amir) May 16, 2016