It should be easy to tell whether or not somethings working on social media, right? I mean, if youve got a lot of likes and favorites, thats great. If you dont, thats less great. Isnt that how its supposed to work?Well, not quite  at least according to DigitasLBi. The marketing agency worked with Wharton professor Jonah Berger to develop a new way to evaluate social media effectiveness, which its calling the Contagious Index (appropriate, since Berger wrote the book Contagious: Why Things Catch On).I think the goal is to shift the conversation, Berger said. Many brands are dissatisfied with social media, and part of that is, the wrong thing is being measured.Apparently theres a lot of fancy math that goes into boiling down a brands social media strategy into a single number, but Berger and Jill Sherman, DigitasLBis senior vice president of social strategy, identifieda few key things abouttheir methodology.For one thing, the index is normalized by impressions, meaning that you dont just get a high score because you have a lot of fans. After all, if youve got millions of followers, youre pretty much guaranteed to get a respectable amount of engagement for every post, but that doesnt mean youre doing a great job. Someone whos got a smaller following might actually be doing a better job of connecting with their customers and fans, even if they get less absolute engagement.The score is also weighted based on the activeness of the engagement. In other words, its easy for me to click like or favorite on something, but it means a lot more if Im willing to leave a comment or to re-share the post with my own followers.Sherman also said the Contagious Index isnt really for scoring individual pieces of content, but rather aggregate actions  can a brand consistently maintain contagiousness or virality for their reach over time?In addition to assigning brands a score out of 100, DigitasLBi also makes an effort to identify thekinds of strategies are working.DigitasLBi says the Contagious Index is available to all of its clients. Sherman added that its probably not suited for every business on social media.This really is about content, she said. It really is for brands trying to play int he content space in a meaningful way in social.Update: Added the top 10 lists for Facebook and Twitter.