Disney has now somewhat belatedly joined the ranks of thenumerous app publishers offering their own custom keyboards for iOS 8 users with the launch of an iOS applicationcalled Disney Gif. The new app is a mobile keyboard extension that lets you shareDisney and Pixar-themed GIFs via text messaging as well as email and social networks. At launch, the app includes over 200 GIFs, the company says, but more will be added in time.When iOS 8 first debuted, therewas a lot of interest from users and app developers alike in custom, third-party keyboards for the iPhone.With the ability to extend the keyboards functionality, users could finally take advantage of popular predictive text apps like SwiftKey, or apps that let you type via finger swipes, like SwiftKey Flow or Swype. But another favorite category of keyboard apps included those that let you copy and paste GIFs into ApplesMessaging app, such asRiffsy, Blippy, PopKey, or Kanvas, for example.These apps offer a wider variety of GIFs than Disneys own GIF app does, but Disney enthusiasts may appreciate having a standalone database of only Disney GIFs to search across. Plus, parents may feel more comfortable letting theirkids ortweens install the Disney Gifapp on their devices, as the bigger GIF apps sometimes feature more maturecontent. (While not necessarily NSFW, you can still find results that arent entirely wholesome on those.)Disney Gifwont really have that problem. Instead, the app features content from Disney titles like Frozen and Star Wars, as well as ABC shows like Once Upon A Time and Scandal. (The Scandal GIFs arent at all inappropriate, despite the more adult nature of that show, we should note.)Unfortunately, a collection of some 200 GIFs still feels pretty limited  the Star Wars section is one of the largest, but has just a couple dozen GIFs at launch. Disney needs to quickly expand its selectionin order to be more competitive with the free GIF apps already on the market. Plus, the GIFs themselves arent always as clever as those users create themselves from Disney cartoons and movies  you can often find much better ones on sites like Tumblr or Giphytoday.The app lets you browse by emotion or by Disney films and shows, see whats trending, and offers a pairof $0.99 in-app purchases for premium Frozen packs. (Please dont tell my kid.) Its likely Disney will expand its selection of paid downloads in the future.Disney says the decision to do a GIFs app follows the popularity it has seenwith Disney emoji. For instance, the Star Wars emojigenerated over 1 billion impressions on Twitter in the first two weeks they became available. Plus, the company adds that GIFs and othercontent help to grow Disneys social presence  for instance, its Facebook pages for characters and films today have over 1.5 billion likes.Disney Gif is a free download on iTunes.