Despite itsname, Disney Movies Anywhere, the studios cloud-based digital movie service, hasnt really been available anywhere you want to watch its titles. But today, thats beginning to change. Thecompany is expanding support for the service toadditionalplatforms with the launch of new apps for Microsoft Xbox 360, Amazons Fire TV and Fire TV Stick, and Amazon tablets. And, ina few more days, it will have apps for Android TV and Roku, too.The service got its start in February 2014, as an iTunes-integrated application.Users would download the app, then sign in with their iTunes and Disney account information. The Disney Movies Anywhere app would thencreate a collection of movies youve already purchased via iTunes, and allowyouto seek out new movies from its online catalog. Users couldalso redeem the Digital Copy codes found in Disney, Pixar and Marvel Blu-rays and DVDs in order to access digital copies of titles they previously only had access to on physical discs.Since its debut, the service also rolled out to Google Play and Walmarts VUDU. Plus,it works with Apple TVs AirPlay and Chromecast, the studio notes.Currently, there are over 450 digital movies in the Disney Movies Anywhere collection, including titles from Disney, Pixar, Marvel and now Star Wars, as well as exclusive short-form content.Beginning today in the U.S., a newDisney Movies Anywhere app will be available to Amazon and Microsoft customers, thanks to new partnerships Disney has forged with both companies. The move coincides with one of Disneys early digital release of one its bigger movies of the year, Marvels Avengers: Age of Ultron.The Disney Movies Anywhere app is available now for Xbox 360, Amazon Fire tablets, Fire TV and Fire TV Stick. However, customers wont necessarily have to use a separate app in order to access their Disney movie collection, the company explains.Youll also be able to watch their Disney movies directly through the Amazon Video apps for TVs, connected devices and mobile devices, as well as online at amazon.com/amazonvideo. For Microsoft customers, a similar integration is supported, as youll be able to watch Disney movies through Microsofts Movies & TV service on Windows and Xbox devices, and at microsoft.com/en-us/store/movies-and-tv.In addition, on September 15th  thesame day as the live-action Cinderella becomes available in digital format  Disney will roll out new apps for both Roku and Android TV.As Disney has done in withpast launches, its encouraging customers to sign up for the service by giving away a free movie. For a limited time, those who connect an iTunes, Amazon Video, VUDU, Microsoft Movies & TV, or Google Play account for the first time will get a free copy of Disney-Pixars Monsters, Inc.Disney, like many studios, has been affected by declining DVD sales aspeople increasinglyturn to online services to access video content. By offering support for an expanded number ofplatforms, Disney has the chance to keep more of its customers in its own ecosystem going forward.