Disney made a splash last year when it acquired Maker Studios for at least $500 millionto expand its position in online video, and its acquisition march is not done. Itnext target is likely tobe something to further the companys distributionacross digital networks, according to one executive at the company.I dont want to be predictive about our next acquisition but I will say we feel pretty good about the contentwe have, which includes the Star Wars Universe and Disney itself, said Jay Rasulo, the senior EVP and CFO of the Walt Disney Company, speaking on the Medialink keynote panelat CES in Las Vegas today. [But] Ithink distribution is an area wouldnt be surprised to see us do something more.Speaking to TC directly after the panel, Rasulo said that a social media startup would definitely count as distribution, but he declined to say anything about whether that acquisition might be BuzzFeed. Last year, there were reports that Disney was looking to buy the company. But BuzzFeed wanted $1 billion, the story goes, and so the deal fell apart.He elaborated a bit more on how Maker was a good pickbecause it fell into two priority groups for Disney.Our acquisitionstrategy has been pretty clear, he told TC. We are looking for one of two things. Intellectual propertythat we can distribute through the Disney ecosystem which today is theme parks, theatrical, TV, cruise ships etc. Orsomethingthat can use to extend that network. Maker is a perfect example of that. They area content creation vehicle MakerStudios have clearly established themselvesas a shortform creation studio. But they are also masters of distribution. It was a twofer for us. (A description that you could equally apply to BuzzFeed, in fact.)Another area to consider is whether Disney would acquire a distribution network. Today, the companyis fairlyreliant on third parties to reach audiences  YouTube for Maker, but also cinemas and that ecosystem for films; broadcasters for TV content; and so on. Rasulo points out that Maker does have Maker TV, which is a start.Every companywants more direct relationships with consumers, he said. They want to own the data.The comments from Rasulo and others speakingon the panel underscore just how much media companies are shifting to try to think of themselves more as tech companies today  not a new concept but one that seems to be becoming ever more consuming.We are a media company but we are sucking up technology like you would never believe, said Bob Sauerberg, president of publishers Conde Nast. Today, tech gives us the ability to figure out what people like and add some science to it. Tech is the biggest growth area in Conde Nastright now. We are building a place where tech can thrive.Back in 2006, Conde Nast acquired Reddit, Sauerberg says, because we saw a cool way of sharing and uploading content and a couple of kids with passion. It wasnt an investment that Conde Nast tried to integrate with the rest of its publishing business.We let it operate independently and fed it with a little money. We shared some branding DNA, he recalls. Over time Redditpicked up speed and now has over 70 millionactive users and 5 billion pageviews each month. But buying a tech company doesnt always mean that its media owner knows how best to grow it. Sauerberg says that the decision to spin Redditout in 2011 as an independent company was done so that it could compete with other social media companies. The future is bright.These days, Conde Nasthas shifted from a focus on digital publishing investmentsto straight out digital businesses, with an accent on e-commerce and luxury goods to complement its publisher focus on high-end and premium advertisers catering to affluent readers. Thats included investments in companies like Farfetch and Moda Operandiand ReneSim.