Most security services today give you virtual private networks that encrypt your connections (if you work for any sizable company, you probably use some kind of VPN client to log in to your intranet). New York-basedDispel, which is now coming out of stealth after more than two years of development, offers all of these features butthen layers a number of other security tactics on top of these traditional methods to ensure the security and privacy of its clients.At the core of Dispel are two different ways of connecting computers to the Internet (with smartphone support coming in the future). The company calls these Invisible Connections and Invisible Computers.Invisible Connections are essentially a twist on the typicalVPN connections. Once installed, users simply push a single button and their Internet connections are automatically encrypted and routed through Dispels network of servers.As Dispel CEO Ethan Schmertzler tells me, this ensures that a users computer will regularly show a different IP address and appear in different parts of the work, for example, which then makes it harder for a hacker to target that specific machine and eavesdrop on ausers conversation. At that same time, this also makesit significantly harder to track a given user and to infect a machine with targeted malware.Schmertzler argues that while encryption helps to protect the content that moves between your computer and the Internet servers it connects to, your computer still leaks a lot of metadata. Even when the connection is encrypted, an attacker still sees your  or your corporate networks  IP address. Dispel tries to obscure all of this data by passing it through various cloud providers and jurisdictions.The infrastructure for these connections is completely ephemeral. This obviously sounds a bit likeTor though without some of the major speed bumps that come with using that technology. Unlike Tor, Dispel also bets on disposableinfrastructure.With its Invisible Computers, Dispel also offers a second feature that aims to almost completely shieldits users from attackers. These are essentially cloud-basedLinuxdesktops that users can access remotely. They come with Firefox, Chrome and LibreOffice pre-installed and also connect to the Internet over Dispels privacy infrastructure. Once a user is done with a given machine, Dispel destroys it.Schmertzler tells me that the company is only coming out of stealth now, but that it already has a number of corporate users that use it to ensure their intellectual property doesnt fall into the wrong hands when its employees travel around the world.The service currently offers three pricing plans. These start at $19/month for 50GB of data transferred through its network and five hours of virtual desktop usage. The second plan costs $79/month for 200GB of data transfer and 20hours of Invisible Computer usage. At the top end, users pay $199/month of half a terabyte of bandwidth and 50hours of virtual desktop time.If your CEO needs a bit more support, Dispel also offers a white-glove service and support for getting started with the service.Schmertzler also noted that the overall technology the company has developed could also be used for securing IoT connections or other distributed networks. For the time being, though, the team seems pretty focused on its current user base and product.