Believe it or not, were just a week away from the start of the TechCrunch Disrupt NYHackathon! As usual, TechCrunch will award a $5,000 to the winner of the Hackathon. And to whet your competitive appetites, weve partnered with some fantasticcompanies that haveagreed to putup some great prizes for best use of their tools and technologies.Host your next big idea in our cloud for a chance to win $5,000 cash. Your project must be hosted on Atlantic.Net SSD Cloud Hosting Servers to be eligible to win. Atlantic.Net will choose the winner based on originality, creativity, and boldness of vision. Signupathttps://www.atlantic.netand use promo code TECHCRUNCH25 for $25 of free credit!Best demonstration of Gimbal SDK inside of a working application wins $1,000 cash plus 10 Series 21 beacons split between team membersIBM Bluemix is an open-standards, cloud platform for building, running, and managing applications. With Bluemix, developers can focus on building excellent user experiences with flexible compute options, choice of DevOps tooling, and a powerful set of IBM and third-party APIs and services, including Watson, IoT and Twilio. Register for free trial.The winner of the IBM Bluemix category will receive:The winner will be judged on 3 categories:Learn more about Bluemix APIs and services.Layer is giving away a $1,000 cash prize as well as one years subscription to our Startup Plan ($300) value for a total of $1300 in value for Best Use of the Layer SDKs.Layer is the open communications layer for the Internet, the full-stack building block for communications that enables app creators to build rich, native messaging into their products, transforming user experience and increasing engagement. In the short time since its launch, more than 12,000 developers have begun building communications experiences with the platform.There are Layer developers on six of the seven continents and Layer-powered apps in all major app categories, including category-leading apps in dating, sports and photo sharing. For more information and to get started using Layer, please visit http://www.layer.com.First Place: Up to $50,000* in Simplify Commerce processing within the first 6 months. $500 MasterCard card per teammate, up to five individuals.Second Place: $250 MasterCard card per teammate, up to five individuals.*To qualify for this prize, you must apply to become and be approved as a Simplify Commerce merchant by June 30, 2015, and actively transact via the Simplify Commerce gateway. Actively transact means conducting a sales transaction that results in Simplify Commerce making a deposit to the checking account you have linked to your Simplify Commerce merchant account. If you qualify, Simplify Commerce will rebate the 2.85% + 30 per transaction processing fee for your first $50,000 in sales through December 31, 2015. Should a transaction be refunded, it will not be eligible for a rebate. After youve reached $50,000 in sales, processing fees will be charged at the standard rate at that time (currently the rate is 2.85% + 30 per transaction).Contacts, calendar, mail , groups, web hooks, and more  REST APIs for Outlook give you the flexibility to build delightful experiences for users around the content in mailboxes. And Outlook add-ins let you easily integrate right into Outlook, Outlook for Mac, Outlook Web App, or Outlook.com UI and customize it with your own functionality using HTML and JavaScript. Both the REST APIs and Outlook add-ins work with Outlook, Office 365, and soon Outlook.com. For more documentation, head over to http://dev.outlook.com or the Outlook.com booth.There are two ways to be eligible for this contest. Build a compelling scenario:
1) Either by using Outlook REST APIs
2) Or by building an Outlook add-inSubmissions will be judged across several categories:If you would like to test your add-in in Outlook.com, please stop by our table and well provide you with a developer preview account. Your own accounts will not work yet!We will give out 3 prizes:Best Use of Nexmo: XBox One + Kinect (max 3 per team)
Most Creative Use of Nexmo: Parrot Bebop (max 3 per team)Zalandois Europes leading online fashion platform for women, men and childrena publicly traded company doing business in 15 markets. Delivering first-class shopping experiences to our +14 million customers requires moving fast  with microservices, Agile processes, & autonomous teams  and using cutting-edge, open-source technologies such as Scala and Clojure.Zalandos public APIoffers programmers access to the Zalando web shop and allows operations such as searching for items, categories, filters and brands. It was designed to be a RESTful web service. The developer or team who builds the coolest new project using the Zalando API wins these three great prizes: a Go Pro camera, a Raspberry Pi 2 and a DJI Phantom Aerial UAV Drone Quadcopter for GoPro. A group of up to five hackers can win.Have questions about the Zalando API, or just want to say hello before the hackathon? Ping themat @ZalandoTech on Twitter.Our friends at Hackaday arebringing Hardware to the menu of this years Hackathon. You have 20 hours to hack together some working electronics.Hackaday willprovide the building blocks: development boards and sensors from Atmel, Freescale, Microchip and Texas Instruments, as well as a huge parts order from Mouser to help round out what you need to stitch everything together.Hackaday iskeeping itshardware events page up-to-date as theyadd equipment to the hackathon parts bin. Keep an eye on that page; research the equipment you want to use and set up the development environments on your laptop in advance. You may also bring your own parts, breakout boards, programmers, and tools if you wish but with one caveat: you need to build and code on site.Hardware hacks are eligible for a multitude of prizes, including the $5,000 TechCrunch grand prize. But as you probably guessed, Hackaday is sweetening the deal with itsown range of rewards just for hardware hackers.We are also releasing another batch of hacker tickets, so get them here. They will go quickly, so make haste!