Distelli, a startup that wants to simplify code deployment on servers by offering it as a cloud service, announced $2.8M in Series A funding today.Andreessen Horowitz led the round and general partner Scott Weiss (who founded IronPort) will join the Distelli Board of Directors as part of the deal. This is the first funding for thecompany, which has been bootstrapped to this point.Distelli is Software as a Service that aims to simplify code deployment on servers, regardless of where it lives. It could bein the cloud on AWS, Rackspace or Google Compute Engine, in the data center, or as CEO and founder Rahul Singh joked,it could beona server you bought at Costco and deployed under your desk. Distelli doesnt care where it is.The service works bydeploying a small agent on each server involved in the deployment. Once the agent is running, you can monitor the server activity in the Distelli monitoring dashboard on any device.Singh, who spent nine years at Amazon Web Servicesand was actually the fourth engineer hired, spent years deploying big code projects, so he knows the pain point hes trying to solve first-hand. As he explained, there are good toolsfor writing and building code, but he says there is still a weak point when it comes to deploying. Thats what his company is trying to fix.He acknowledges that Heroku is a good choice, as long as you are running a Heroku server. If youre not, it forces your engineering talent to spend valuable development time creating deployment scripts using tools like Chef or Puppet. He believes this slows down the process and thats where Distelli comes in.Once you deploy the agent on your servers, you can launch your softwareas often as you like and it automates the process, leaving your software engineers to do what they do best  and thats write good code. Whats more, because the agent is managing the process, if a server crashes, no matter where its deployed, Distelli simply restarts it automatically.This keeps personnel out of the loopas much as possible, and lets software handle much of what has traditionally been done manually.The company launched in March 2013, and its small right now with just six employees including Singh. He reports they have 15 paying customers. In fact, they have been so busy with their noses to the grindstone, that even though this funding round closed last fall, the company is just getting around to announcing it now.Singh says, he wants to spend the next year building his customer base, and to that end Distelli will be deploying a tiered pricing plan shortly. Up until now they have charged on a per server basis, but starting soon they will be offeringa free developer plan and paid plans for SMBs and enterprises.He says the companyslong-term goal is to be a one-stop DevOps dashboard to manage infrastructure wherever it lives. For now, its concentrating on the code deployment aspect of that.We have been doing this for over a year now, he told TechCrunch. Every developer we talked to has expressed pain in this area. Weve created amore efficient way to deploy code so engineers can concentrate on what they do best.