DFJ, the renowned Sand Hill Road Firm, is celebrating its 30th anniversary this year. At the same time, its low-flying, later-stage offshoot, DFJ Growth, is turning 10.This week, we caught up with DFJ Growth cofounder Randy Glein to understand how closely related or not the two remain, how the firm isfeeling about theshaky late-stage market, and whether his team of five general partnersis ready to raise their own, third, fund from investors. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: Quickly, what are you looking for when youre writing checks? How mature does a company need to be? RG: We pick up where venture funds leave off. Were invest in the scaling phase of businesses, so were looking for that inflection point where the company has found its product market fit and customers who are paying for its products. We come inwhen companies are generating low tens of millions of dollars in annual bookings, growing more than 100 percent a year, and playing in a market thats big enough to support a large company. That can be $1 billionto $100 billion dollars, depending on the market opportunity.TC: Can you invest in a company regardless of whether or not DFJs venture team has made an earlier investment in it? RG: Many companies weve co-invested in with DFJ and not followed. It just depends on the stage of the business. Also, asweve raised bigger funds  our first fund closed with $290 million in 2007 and our second closed with $470 million in 2013  theres been less overlap. Id say 25 to 30 percent of our first fund was invested in companies backed by DFJ; in the second fund, its less than 10 percent. Our charter is to invest in the most exciting growth-stage companies onthe planet, and to go anywhere to find them.TC: Do you share the same investors? RG: Again, there was more overlap in first fund; with the second fund, less than half the capital is coming from [DFJs same investors]. Some LPs want to invest in venture. Some want to invest in growth stage companies because they have a different risk tolerance profile or need to take a different size bite. Some want both and see us as sister funds.TC: Are you raising another fund in 2016? RG: We still have several investments to make out of our existing fund so we havent announced the timing [of our next fund].TC: What are you some of your biggest exits to date?RG: Weve had several IPOs and several M&A events, primarily from the first fund, including the IPOs of Twitter, Solar City, Box and Tesla Motors, which was our first IPO out of that fund. We also invested in Yammer, which was acquired a few months after we invested; we invested in Tumblr, acquired by Yahoo; we invested in AdMob, which was acquired by Google a year after we invested; and we invested in Good Technology, acquired earlier this year by Blackberry.TC: Good, formerly called Visto, had raised hundreds of millions of dollars from many VCs over a long period, though it was also recapped at one point. Did that sale return money to your investors? RG: We got involved back in late 2006, it was our first investment, and it was one of our better-performing investments in terms of cash-on-cash multiples.TC: Given how much more late-stage companies have been raising in recent years, will you look to raise an even bigger fund? RG: I wouldnt correlate fund size with the market environment. We like the fund size we have and I expect it to be in that range. A tremendously larger fund isnt appropriate for our strategy, and thatsto invest $10 million to $25 million initially, which not a lot of folks do.TC: Its shocking that thats modest by current standards. RG: Well, its really that later-stage growth has really become a crossover stage, where investors are coming in with new sources of capital  be it private equity funds or hedge funds or mutual funds or these special purpose vehicles  at a later stage than where we invest. Its that pre-IPO stage where weve seen a real dissonance or disconnect between the private and public markets over the last couple of years  though I think thats changing, right now  literally in the last 30 to 60 days.TC: Is that an aberration or a longer-term trend? RG: I think companies understand now that if you want a higher price, okay, but [these crossover investors] want downside protection. Were starting to see companies say, I didnt realize what that structure ultimately does. So Im guessing well see more companies that let the market set the true price; well see more of a rationalization of private market pricing.TC: Itd be nice to see more public offerings, too. For example, youve backed SpaceX, which is now 13 years old. Whats it waiting for? RG: I cant speak for Elon Musk, but I know he has said theres a lot to accomplish. They have tremendous vision and even bigger aspirations, and there are very good reasons why its better to act on that vision and pursue those aspirations as a private company.TC: I dont know. Public shareholders really love Elon Musk, as evidenced by Tesla. RG: Theyre very different companies.