Meeting management startup Do was founded out of SherpaFoundry to help make users more productive while sitting in on otherwise boring conference calls. To do so, the company has raised $2 million in seed funding and has also connected its service with Microsofts Office 365 suite.Do provides a platform for managing discussions that happen during meetings. And, well, theres a lot of meetings out there. Meetings are happening all the time, every day. Several times a day. They happen so often, sometimes its tough to keep track of which meeting youre in, or why.But its ok  Dos got you covered. The startup wants to keep meeting participants on point and reduce the time users spend rolling their eyes and not really paying attention to what that one dude who wont shut up is saying during every conference call.To reduce the amount of time wasted, users can map out agendas ahead of time and adding new topics as they come up, all of which enables users to keep participants on-topic while also keeping track of followup action items. Users can take notes, share files, assign tasks, and view meeting summaries at any point before, during, or after a conference call or in-person session.Its a noble pursuit  and why not? after all, most meetings are horrible!  which is why employees from more than 5,000 companies have signed up to use the platform. And, according to Do founder Jason Shah, more than half of all users who sign up and take part in a meeting on Do come back and run another meeting on the platform.To get in front of other users, the startup has raised new funding from New Enterprise Associates, Slow Ventures, Queensbridge Venture Partners, Zynga founder Mark Pincus, Chegg co-founder Aayush Phumbhra and Cotap CEO Jim Patterson, among others. That comes on top of investment from Salesforce.com and SherpaVentures, which were both there from the start of the company.The funding follows an expansion of its product that makes it available to a whole new group of users. Launched initially to connect with Google Apps and all its email and calendaring applications, Do has integrated with Microsofts Office 365 Suite. By doing so, the startup makes its product available to a wide range of organizations using Microsoft products for communication and collaboration.Now that thats done, Do is thinking about new things it can roll out. Like say, premium features  the type people would pay for. Its not announcing anything along those lines today, but its not hard to imagine users being willing to shell out a few bucks each month for options that could make meetings even more productive. After all, time = money.