Over the last few years tech companies both large and smallhave developed programsthat can dream; andunderstand and process information; and evenwrite articles; but nothing has come close to the holy grail of artificial intelligence  developing software that can learn independently.At least, not until now.Helsinki might seem like an unlikely potential birthplace for this new era of intelligent machines. Yetits there  on a side street blocks from the central train station  that a team of roboticists, neuroscientists, and graphics programmersplanted the seed that would become thenew artificial intelligence software developer, The CuriousAI Company.Unlike other technologies that are training computers to understand the information theyre receiving, the Curious AI programmersare actually attempting to give computers a way to learn in an unsupervised manner  a process that mimics human cognition more closely, according to company co-founder Harri Valpola.The future of artificial intelligence is in machine learning and in how our brain works, says Valpola. [So far]the successful stories have been about supervised deep learning. But it only works if you have huge amounts of labeled data. Its not machines learning by themselves, its people training them. [But] the way our brain learns is more through unsupervised learning.Valpola beganworking at the intersection of neuroscience, machine learning and robotics over twenty years ago as a research assistant in the lab ofTeuvo Kohonen, a pioneer of neural networks in 1993.Ive been doing neural networks, machine learning, and building brains ever since, Valpola says.After nearly a decade researching neural networks, Valpola took the next step on the road that would lead him to launch Curious with his co-founders: Mathias Berglund, Timo Haanp, Tapani Raiko, Antti Rasmus. He turned to robotics.That meant a trip to Zurich and still more research under the tutelage of Rolf Pfeiferat his robotics laboratory, before returning to Helsinki and launching Valpolas own robotics lab to incorporatethe work hed done with both machine learning and AI and robotics into a single system.Valpola believes that  just like humans  machines can learn by doing, and by doing things in an unsupervised manner. Its the thesis behind ZenRobotics, anautomating waste recycling company and the first venture Curious AI undertook.We were building brains for robotics and at some point we decided that we knew enough and had developed enough technologies with processors and controllers, Valpola says. We decided to start commercializing that, and thats why we started Zen Robotics.Although Curious AIis starting with semi-autonomous robots that are sorting valuable material from trash in waste processing facilities, its a harbinger for a more fully roboticized future, in Valpolas vision.Indeed,the applications extend far beyond sorting trash. One of the big problems with autonomous vehicles is getting programs to understand segmentation  or identifying and classifying objects in a group without having to label each different object  which Valpola says is where current technologies have stalled.Computer vision is still struggling with segmentation and I think its because people are trying to solve it the wrong way, says Valpola. Its integrated with the rest of the deep learning machinery and we believe we can make a breakthrough there. Currently, in computer vision, segmentation is a big bottleneck.But using ZenRobotics as an example, Curious team of founders can already point to a real example where their technology appears to have solved the problem.The technology was persuasive enough to line up an EUR800,000 ($1 million) seed investment for Curious AI from ZenRobotics backers Invus and LifeLine Ventures and newcomer Balderton Capital(which will rarely take a bet so early in a companys development).Using that funding, Curious AI intends to sell its artifical intelligence software as a toolkit that can be applied at companies like Google, Facebook, Nvidia, or IBM  each of whom have their own deep learning and artificial intelligence programs.These companies can take these algorithms and create new things with them, says Valpola. We are planning to demonstrate our technology in real time vision systems. Thats the first milestone. Build a real time vision system that can be trained in a semi-supervised manner rather than label every frame.But how does even developing real-time vision systems get computers to the point of cognition? The secret, says Valpola, is in refining the unsupervised learning systems of the programs.The artificial intelligence itself will develop new artificial intelligences, he says. We need to bootstrap that to get to the point where the artificial intelligence is at least as intelligent as us.And it will require more work from an entire ecosystem of startup companies to make the singularity happen sooner rather than later.There will be many new startups that are taking up the opportunity of doing things in different ways once the machine intelligence is more than it is now, says Valpola. Computers are still damn stupid in the end.