Docker today announced that it has acquired Conductant, a small startupthat focused on orchestration.While you have probably never heard of Conductant  and as far as we can see, the company doesnt even have a web presence and has never received outside funding  this acquisition brings a lot of talent to Docker.Conductant was founded by Bill Farner and David Chung. While at Twitter, Farners team built what would later become the Apache Aurora project. Aurora is a scheduling system that ties into the Mesos framework,a service that helps abstract individual servers away so developers and admins can treat clusters just like they would individual machines. Aurora currently orchestrates the majority of machines inside Twitter and a number of other firms.Farner, Chung and John Sirois will join Docker. The team has extensive experience in building and working with large-scale, mission-critical systems at Google, Twitter and Zynga.Docker says the team will work on creating a commercial distribution for Aurora (which would compete with the likes of Mesosphere) and integrating Aurora with Docker Swarm. The company says it is also looking at integrating Aurora as a component of the Docker stack.According to an internal memo we received, the team will also work on a number of internal systems at Docker. These include a project that will give every Docker employee a Docker-based sandbox to work with instead of having to set up individual AWS accounts. In doing this, the team will dogfood some of the above-mentioned projects (and has apparently been doing so for the last few weeks since the acquisition officially closed).This project will help us reinforce an essential aspect of Docker DNA: we must ALWAYS be experts at operating our own software, the internal memo reads. That is how Docker was invented in the first place: by drawing from our operational experience at Dotcloud. There is a virtuous circle between development and operations that is essential if we want to be credible as a vendor of infrastructure software.