Document analytics startup DocSend has raised $8 million in new funding. Naturally, co-founder and CEO Russ Heddleston said he used his companys tools to make the deal.DocSend launched in the Startup Battlefield at our Disrupt NY conference two years ago, offering users a differentway to send email attachments. The attachments are presented in a web viewer, meaning that you get notifications whenever someone opens them, as well as analytics data about how much time theyspend viewing each page.At first glance, that might sound suspiciously similar to the exasperating read receipt requeststhat seem to pop up in my inbox every day, but Heddleston argued, Its not a way to track people. Its a way to communicate more effectively.After all, he said that as communication has become easier, Weve gotten lazy. As we try to communicate with more and more people, the feedback loop gets looser and looser, and when you send these big documents, you dont know what happens when you dont hear back.And there are benefits besides knowing what people are reading. For example, you can upload new versions of a document to the same link (so you donthave to tell everyone Wait! Read this new version!), or you can send out multiple links for the same document and control access individually. And from a pure presentation perspective, Heddleston said businesses appreciate being able to use a document viewer that can be customized with their own branding.As I mentioned, oneof the big use cases is fundraising  in fact, Heddleston said that just based on anecdotal conversations with customers, he can say that DocSendhas already been used to raise more than $1 billion in funding. (In an emailed statement, mNectar CEO Wally Nguyen said that thanks to DocSend, I knew which firms to focus on, I could be confident my deck was engaging, and I kept control of my materials throughout the fundraise. mNectar has raisedmore than $9 million in funding.)Are we going to haveto choose between peopleor finance people and entrepreneurs doing investor outreach? he said. Are these all entirely different products? Theyre actually not. When youre sending content in document form, the same things are important to anybody.Speaking of fundraising, DocSends new round comes from August Capital, with Augusts Howard Hartenbaum joining its board of directors.