The first thing I thought when I opened my Ringly box was that it smelled. Bad. Likeelectronics that had caught on fire and werethen put out in some sort of chemical bath. But the company told me that the ring I received (an early review unit sent to reporters) was part of a bad beta batch. More recently, they replaced it with another. It didnt smell nearlyas bad.But now my first thought was not of Ringlys scent, or lack thereof, but whethera wearable device like this  one that alerts you to calls, texts, emails, app updates and more by way of lights and vibrations  has a place in an Apple Watch world.While the Apple Watchs overall usefulness is still hotly debated, the device easily fillsthe same role that Ringly does, while also offering the benefits of a health monitor and app platform. And its selling.Though many popular app makers have yet to get on board with Apples wearable, its arguable thatthere doesnt really need to be an Apple Watch app for everything. Instead, the Watch is at its best when it serves up timely, relevant and contextually aware information  like an incoming call, a text, a breaking news alert or notification about a sale at thestoreyoure now entering.Likewise, Ringly also wants to be atool you use as a way to stay on top of your most important notifications, while allowing you to finally stow your smartphone back in your purse where it belongs.Founded in 2013, New York-based Ringly has been one of the better-known smart jewelry startups, and is backed by $6.1 million in venture funding from investors, includingAndreessen Horowitz, Brooklyn Bridge Ventures, First Round, High Line Venture Partners, Mesa Ventures, PCH International, The Social+Capital Partnership and Highway1.Sold online, the device has beendesigned to appeal specifically to women, whose needs had been largely ignored by the makers of otherwearables, like smartwatches and health trackers, that, before, were often clunky, large, or simply not attractive enough to accompany the fashionable clothing choices that many women like to wear.Ringlys co-founder and CEO Christina Mercando, who previouslyworked as a Senior Product and Design Manager at eBay, said she came up with the idea when she realized that many women have a habit of keeping their phones in their purses,causing them tomiss important calls and texts.The device itself is like a piece of costume jewelry, and comes with different stones and band options.I tested Dive Bar, pictured right, which is arhodium-tone plated ring with a tourmalated quartz stone. Others are 18K matte gold plated with semi-precious stones. The company tells us itslaunching new finishes and stones, as well as other designs and collaborations in the future. An upcoming collection, for example, will include both bracelets and rings.The look-and-feel of Ringly is fairly chic, in terms of tech wearables, but may still be a little oversized to fit everyones tastes.Itsbulk is due to the fact that, inside, the ring featureselectronics that allow it to buzz and light up when theres something you need to know.With Ringly, users pair the app via Bluetooth with an accompanying smartphoneapplication, and then can customize the light and vibration patterns for how their ring responds to various activities. By default, Ringly alerts you to calls, texts, emails and calendar events, but it also supports a large number of third-party applications.You can customize alerts forOutlook, Twitter, Facebook, Messenger, Snapchat, Lyft, Uber, Pinterest, Hinge, Tinder, OK Cupid, LinkedIn, Tumblr, Airbnb, Vine, Hangouts, WhatsApp, Slack, Clue, Google Shopping Express, Poshmark, Dark Sky, GroupMe, Skype, Etsy, Fitbit, KakaoTalk, Kik, Life360, Viberand Alien Blue.That makes Ringly fairly competitivewhen it comes to Apple Watch and its alerting capabilities, as the lineup includes the most-used applications, and specifically those where you would want to know if theres been a change  like a new message, comment, post, match, ping, etc.To configure these in the Ringly app, you just tap anEdit button and add those items you want to include to your list of Notifications. After doing so, you can then further customize the alert type by tapping on the item to change the color of the alert and the vibration pattern. You can also add specific contacts to the app, allowing you to receive alerts when someone important is calling or texting.Ringly only supports a handful of colors (blue, green, yellow, purple and red), and four are already used by the default alert types (phone call, texts, email and calendar events). That means youll have to get clever with regard to your customizations  perhaps making all messaging apps one color, but using varyingvibration patterns to help differentiate them, for instance.The app itself is very well-designed  elegant, even  and simple to use. In addition to configuring your alerts, the app also lets you control other aspects of the Ringly experience, including whether to put the ring in sleep mode when its not used, buzz when its out of range, and more.Another clever aspect to Ringly is the way the device is charged. The Ringly ships in a small, black ring box thatplugs in via USB. You place the ring inside the box  which looks like any othertraditionalring box  in order to start charging it. The ring box has its own battery that lasts over a week before needing to be charged via USB, but the company advises that thebox is plugged in regularly.Though initially I thought making the charger a ring box was a nifty trick, that also means that Ringly cantreally be stored in a jewelry box along with other rings, or in a jewelry cabinet. It needs to be near a USB charger or the USB port on your computer. And because I already have enough devices and cords hanging aroundmy nightstand, Ringlys charger found its way tothe office, alongside Fitbit and my other less-used wearables.While setting up the Ringly charger in the office, I took the time to give it a whiff, and it seems like its the box and not the ring itself thats the source of the new, less noticeable smell. Though definitely far betterthan the first ring (that one smelledso bad it was unusable), theres still a slightly unpleasant scent to the box which then transfers to the ring. But as I wore Ringly, the odor faded. At this point, I wouldnt call the smell a deal-breaker, but rather a point of concern.Ringly says the ring will last 24-48 hours on a single charge, which means you can count on using it for at least a day. But its a good habit to return it to the charger at night.While the Ringly worked as advertised and was easy to use, there was a part of me that felt it was a little juvenile to be wearing a device that flashed lights, however subtle they may be. I imagine some customers will decide the same, and will turn off the lights altogether in favor of vibrations alone. However, doing so makes it more difficult to identify the incoming alerts.Theres also a learning curve to using Ringly. You may notimmediately remember what the colors or vibrations mean, so its best to start off with a small group of alerts, then add more customizations over time.In addition, priced at $195-$260 (depending on the style), the Ringly is not exactly an impulse buyor toy  youll have to seriously consider if youll use Ringly enough to make it worth the investment. This is true, too, because Ringly doesnt last forever. The battery is not user-replaceable and reportedlythe ringhas a three-year lifespan. (The company says now its more like ~2 years.)And in my case, having spent just a little more on the Apple Watch, a notification-sending ring feels a little redundant.Thats not to say that Ringly doesnt have its place. After all, not everyone wants an Apple Watch or other wrist wearable. But it raises the question whether theres going to be a large enough market for this, at its current price points.Asked about the Apple Watch competition, Mercando emphasized Ringlys looks.There are a lot of wearable tech products on the market today, but many of them lack the aesthetic quality that women are looking for when they shop for accessories, sheexplained. Ringly takes a different approach by making the technology feel discreet and invisible.We strive to create designs that our customers would want to buy even if it didnt have technology inside, she added. In the future, we believe people will be shopping for wearable tech devices the way that today they shop for clothing. There will not be a one-size-fits-all solution; well want to buy the piece that fits our personal style and the functionality that fits our lifestyle.But the biggerdifference between the ring and the smartwatch is not about their aesthetics, butthat the watchactually allows you to take action from your wrist when an important alert comes through. You can take that call, or quickly reply to that text.Ringlyonly alerts you. That means, if you want to respond, youll still have to dig your phone out of your bag anyway. And wasnt that the hell thatthe ring was supposed to deliver us from in the first place?