A number of companies today leverage the ubiquity of smartphones in order to offer parents connected baby monitoring systems thatcan be accessed from anywhere. Often, as with devices like NapTime or Evoz, these include a monitor and camera of some sort and an accompanying mobile app. But a startup called Dormi has historically offered a different take  instead of selling new hardware, the company allows you to re-use old Android smartphones or tablets in order to remotely monitor yourbabys room.Now its system has received a long-anticipated update, with the much-requested addition of video monitoring.Previously, Dormis system was audio-only. Using an app that worked over Wi-Fi or cellular connections or even WiFi Direct/WiFi Hotspot, you could listen in on baby while out of the room, much like traditional baby monitoring systems allow for today. You could also press a button to speak into the app which would transmit the sound of your voice to the other device in the childs room.The devices you use with Dormicould be anextra Android phone or tabletyou had lying around the house. Or you could use your current Android device as the primary one, if you chose.In addition to the simplicity of the system, the app has beenpriced compellingly  perhaps even too cheaply considering its hardware-based competition sold through baby superstores and other retailers is often exorbitantly priced.While technically a subscription-based app, Dormi offers lifetime usagefor just $7.00. Its sort of a no-brainer for those looking for simple and affordable alternative to traditional baby monitoring systems, or just wants a solution thats easier to carry around when traveling, for example.That price point remains in effect today, despite the new feature set. You can also pay $1 per month for Dormi or $5 per year. The company is, however, considering the introduction of in-app purchases later on when it enables high-quality video  support for which is already built into the app but not yet available.With the just released update, the app now supports real-time video streaming withhardware-accelerated encoding and decoding (evenon old 2.3 Gingerbread devices). Explains co-founder Pavel Kryl of Sleekbit, the Czech Republic-based company that makes Dormi,extending support to older devices took a lot of work on their part, includingreverse engineering low-level Android libraries in order tointerface with them for hardware-accelerated video encoding. The implementation promises minimal CPU usage and battery usage.Dormis app has also been visually updated to match up with Androids new material design philosophy, the company says, which includes animated transitions to and from full-screen video, for example. There have also been improvements to Dormis intelligent noise level monitoring, including a new manual sensitivity control, which should address some users earlier complaints about the apps sensitivity, which increased on hard, flat surfaces.Another more major addition is support for Chrome OS, which means Dormis system can now be accessed from a Chromebook computer. It will also soon become available by way of the Chrome browser on all platforms, too, the company says.And there have been a number of other under the hood updates that improve battery usage, reliability and reduce latency.As an Android-only application, Dormi is doing well enough with around 120,000 active users following 250,000 downloads, and steadily rising sales. However, because of its ratherlow pricing, the company is only generating $6,000 per month were told. Thats concerning because for Dormi to stick around, it will need to figure out how to scale thatrevenue. (Though Sleekbit does have a number of other apps on the market, which does help.)One thing that may help increase Dormissales is that the app just a few weeks ago has managed to score the second position in Google Play when users search for baby monitor. That could give Dormi increased visibility, and ultimately more downloads and paying customers.Dormiis a free download on Google Play.