Many in the West are still dumbfounded that QR codes area thing. Well, heads-up, the humble QR code as you know it is being disrupted. At least thats according to Visualead, an Israel-based startup backed by Alibaba that announced a new dotless format today.Alibaba, which invested millions in an undisclosed round for Visualeadin January, isamong the first to trial dotless QR codes. There are multiple benefits to the new format, Visualead CEO and co-founder Nevo Alva told TechCrunch, including 90 percent more space for branding and messaging from retailers and tighter security.This is thenext step from the visual QR code. Our development is based on feedback that wegot from the market, Alva said, And it will make codesmore obvious for consumers to interact with.In addition to enabling a clearer call-to-action,Visualead said the new QR codes arepractically impossible to imitate which will help Alibaba, and other retailers, battle counterfeits. Indeed, Alibaba  whichreceived a lawsuit from U.S. luxury goods companies just last weekis launching its Blue Stars campaign that uses dotless QR codes within its Taobao marketplace. Merchants print out and attach a label toeach package, which customerscan then scan to verify the authenticity of the goodsthey receive.Taking a step back for a second, QR codes are big business in Asia, and particularly China, where they are a key mechanism for facilitating online-to-offline commerce  take aride on the Beijing subway and marvel athow many codes are included in ads.Alva claimed that visual codes can be four times more effective at getting a response fromcustomers.Clearly, a QR code startup founder is bound to wax lyrical about QR codes, but there are some pointers to back his claim up. In addition to Alibabas investment  which was the companys first in a startup in Israel  Visualead has racked up over 500,000 customers on its freemium service, thoughAlva would only say that hundreds of thousands pay for the service in some form.Like anything, however, introducing a new standard takes time. Alva is optimistic that getting Alibaba on boardwill help dotless codesgain adoption with greater speed.In one day we can penetrate hundreds of millions of devices [via Alibabas Taobao app], he said.As for the West, Alva isnt giving up hope. He said he believes that a little time and the right partners can help QR codes realize thepotential that he believes they offer.People in the West say it is just a code, and its been going to die every year for last five years. When we talk about O2O [online-to-offline retail] there are several guidelines that we have to have in place: education and penetration.These are two very important things.In China, you can see how big companies are pushing QR codes. [In the West,] itdepends on several things, we have to find the right partner, he said.Facebooks move to turn Messenger into a platformand the additions of payments is moving towards commerce, while rivalmessaging appTango have fully embraced shoppinglast week. EvenAmazons effortto simplify things with Dash, a physical button forre-ordering items,shows how things are moving  though scanning a QR code seems far easier and more flexible. As messaging apps in the West become commerce channels, as they already are in the East, so the winds of change may blow for QR codes in the West.Visualead isnt sitting around waiting, however.Alva hinted it is in discussions with companies in the U.S., although he declined to say which ones. Likewise, he said theres a lotmore to come.Yes, its a code, but if you use it right, the amount of things you do with it are endless, he argued, hinting that Visualead is preparing to move into several new segments in the coming period.