On the heels of a $75 million investment from Accel, Chinese drone king DJIis putting some of itsfunding to use by making some investments of its own. The company this week announced that it would be taking a stake in Hasselblad, a camera maker from Sweden that focuses (!) on high quality equipment, often used in more challenging environments. This is a minority stake and neither companydisclosed the amount whencontacted by TechCrunch. But it is large enough to give DJI a seat on Hasselblads board of directors.The companies say that whilethey will continue to build their businesses independently of each other, the investment and partnership will also mean that they will be working on products together, with collaborations usingDJIs expertise in unmanned flying vehicles, and Hasselblads technical imaging know-how, specifically for the professional market.We are honored to be partnering with DJI, the clear technology and market leader in its segment, said Perry Oosting, Hasselblads CEO in a statement. DJI and Hasselblad are equally enthusiastic about creativity and excellence, and we are looking forward to sharing technical expertise and paving the way for future innovations.Hasselblad and DJI share a passion to provide creative people with cutting-edge, inventive technology to help them take visual storytelling to the next level, said Frank Wang, DJIs Founder and CEO in the statement. With this partnership, we combine our strengths to further push the borders of whats possible in imaging technology.This is an interesting investment for a couple of reasons. On the side of DJI, its a mark of the companys ambitions to build out the image quality on its drones. DJI wasan early mover in the area of drones thathas taken a leadership position acrossconsumer, industrial and high-end professional categories, and its already developed imaging technology as a part of that. But it is coming up against very strong competition at all levels  for example from Parrot in the consumer space, and compatriot Yuneec, which also raised a big round this year backed by Intel.DJI making strategic investmentsin the wider ecosystem of components that (literally and figuratively) make the drone market fly may bea way of building the greater market, but it is also a way of locking inthe more promising companies that work in the space into DJIsown ecosystem in a more direct way, above that of its competitors.This is not the only stakethat DJI  which is projected to make $1 billion in sales in 2015  will take in a third-party business, but it is the first to be made public. No other investments for us to announce for the time being, a spokesperson told me.To be clear, the Canonical partnership also announced this week, which will seea new Ubuntu computer called Manifold embedded on to DJI drones, was purely a partnership based on technology, with no financial stake, the spokesperson says.But there will be more. The company partneredwith its investor Accel in May to launch the SkyFund tomake investments in unmanned aerial vehicle startups. Its not clear that Hasselblad is part of the SkyFund portfolio  the fund and Accel get no mention in the official statement about the investment. So this is a signal of how DJI willmake direct investments of its own, too.On the part of Hasselblad, this is an interesting deal, in that its taking a very legacy player in the area of imaging and giving it a significant leg up into one of the more cutting-edge areas of photography.Its also a sign of the times that Hasselblad is evolving by partnering with a company from the new guard.Perry Oosting, the companys CEO, tells TechCrunch that this is the first and only time that the company has taken an outside investment since being founded in 1941: No other investments or other strategic partnerships present, he said in an emailed response.The company is certainly iconic in its field: it was a Hasselblad camera that was used to take the first pictures on the Moon, and its equipment also been used in a number of other NASA space missions.