DroneDeployis on a mission to make drones accessible to industrialusers who have abusinessneed for conducting outdoor landscape mapping and monitoring. So, in other words, it wants drones to be put to work bypeople other thanenthusiastic dorks with a gadget habit  doing tasks like helping farmers spot crop damage anddisease.Its doing this by makinga software as a service platform that makes controlling and managing UAVs much easier than it otherwise is via a simplified web app interface or iOS and Android mobile apps. The DroneDeploy platform autonomously pilots the drone for the user so they dont have to learn how to do it themselves.As well as doing the mapping, DroneDeployscloud platform also takes care of the data processing to speed up the entire operation delivering processed data back to the user in real-time and in an easily shareable format so they can act on the drone-delivered intel, rather than having to wrangle with the techitself.Thats kind of the dirty secret of drones, says co-founder and CEO Mike Winn. People say Ive got this amazing flying machine, its got four rotors, and it flies, and its cool and look it can product a 3D model, or it can produce a growth map of your fields  but no one talks about that space in between. How do you get that drone to actually make that growth map of your fields? It takes 50 to 70 clicks. Most of the time you must have a Windows laptop. You need to buy $8,000 pieces of software. Its going to take 24 hours of processing time to actually make those images into the map that youre looking for.We hide all that complexity. You just take out your mobile phone, you turn on your drone, you press two buttons on your phone, the drone will launch itll capture the imagery, itll process that imagery and itll deliver you back that imagery, that map or that 3D model in a matter of minutes.The core feature offered by DroneDeploy at this point is tailored to its current customer focus of farmers, construction companies and mining companies: namelyaerial imagery used forphotogrammetry. So it can offer mapping and 3D modeling of large areas (of hundreds of acres) andprovide volumetric estimates.More features will come down the line. Were just at the beginning, says Winn. Now we can get a drone to go and fly and create data autonomously. And we can do it in the way that anyone can do it. The next step is to start processing that data and going one level deeper wherewe can automatically detect change.[In future] we can tell construction sites whats happened in a day. We can start to do things like automatically tell rail companies theres an obstruction in the path of the railway line. So right now weve started on the first thing, which is giving the data, but theres so much more that we can do. And because all of the software that weve created is in the cloud it gives us infinite resources to be able to process that and do some really exciting computer science to figure out whats happening, whats changing in the world and how do we help businesses with this data.DroneDeploys SaaS product starts at $99 per month, and is just exiting beta now (initially focused on the U.S. market)  as the startupannounces a $9 million Series A round, led by Emergence Capital. Ithad previously raised a $2 million seedback in 2013, including from SoftTech, Data Collective and AngelPad. Those priorinvestors are participating in its Series A. While Emergence Capitalgeneral partner Kevin Spain is also joiningDroneDeploys board.Also today,itsannouncing a partnership with drone maker DJI, which Winn says opens up the market in a huge way for its SaaS platform. He estimates DJI has between 60% and 70% drone marketshare. Other drones are supported, including3DR drones  up to10% marketshare in his estimate. So we have by far the majority of the market being able to use our products, he adds.The majority of DroneDeploys beta customers thus far have been farmers. They can get value out of this immediately, says Winn, noting that thousands of aces of corn does not make forthe easiest terrain to monitor on foot.How do they know whats going on? Now they can just fly a drone over and theyve very quickly able to establish whats going on. They might have had hail damage from rain, or some disease or infestation cropping up. For the first time they can actually run these flights daily if they want to. Get this data immediately and start taking action.Drones can even be used to judgecrop health by monitoring how fast plants are growing  using infrared cameras.What will the startupbe using the new funding for? Scaling up to meet what it hopes will be strongdemand from a range of industries, says Winn, and also starting to build out those additional powerful features atop the data itscollecting to take the SaaS platform to the next level (as it were).As DroneDeploy launches out of beta, drone and satellite related investments are generallyon an uptick  as youd expect for what remains a relatively nascent space, outside military use-cases  running at$188 million across 22 venture rounds for this year so far, according to CrunchBase data. Last year the category pulled in $153 million in total in 63 venture rounds.