At the end of March Amazon dropped what many assumed was an early April Fools joke: a physical, Internet-connected button (calledAmazon Dash) intended to be stuckto household items like your washing machine so you can thoughtlesslyreorder staple products like washing powder without even having to open your smartphone and use an ecommerce app.But apparently Amazons lazy Internet of Things product-brandedbuttons werebona fide, not badly timed joke.Which means  inevitably  that more of these connected bridging interfaces betwixt existing dumb objects and the capabilities of the Internet are on the way as startups spy an (apparent) opportunity to add a physical interface to everything. (Well, at least until all objects are smart by default and can automatically track and quantify our existence.)To wit: Droplet, a Bluetooth button designed to stick onto your stuff and deliver configurable functionality such as reminders or custom messages. It takes the push-button ease of Amazon Dash as its jumping off point but is promising a highly configurable experience  whereas Amazon of course just wants to shovelmore revenue into its yawning coffers. Droplet is also positioning itself as aconsumer devicefrom the get-go, vs the b2b focus of anotherwireless button startup,Bttn.Droplet helps users manage any and all tasks, whether its reminding, tracking, or automating internet actions, says co-founder Sohan Japa, when asked how it compares with Amazons staplereorderingbutton. Unlike the Dash, each Droplet is highly configurable and can be assigned for many roles. Whether it is to trigger an SMS to a loved one or tracking work hours into a spreadsheet, Droplet can be tailored to the individual and its actions can be changed at any time.He says theDroplet button is alsosmaller than Dash, and designed to be discreet and portable  with the team suggesting use-cases such as attaching it tomedicine and supplementbottles and caps as a reminder for taking pills, or lettings others know youve taken your pills.Why is a hardware button reminder better than just using a reminder app? Because these custom notifications can only be dismissed by going to the physical location and pushing the button itself. Ergo, youre morelikely to actually complete the task, rather than just dismissing the notification (or thats the theory).Other ideas for Droplet are as chore reminders to do stuff like take out the trash, water the planets, or feed the fish. Or for tracking exercise activity (although really a wearable seems a lot better placed for that). Or tracking personal hygiene regimes. And so on.Whatever forgetful tasks or quantifiable activities you think it would be useful to stick a tracking button on to keep tabs on  albeit the price per Droplet (which starts at $39 per button) will probably curb your enthusiasm somewhat. Each Dropletalso has a limited lifespan of around a year; once the battery expires so too does the button. Natch.The Bluetooth button requires a plug-in hub that hooks into your home Wi-Fi, and sucksup all your button-baseddata to Droplets cloud servers (so this is not a scenario privacy-conscious types will welcome), and has a companion iOS or Android app where you can configure the content and type ofnotifications (email, text, call etc) you want from each Droplet, and how often itshould ping you. The appwill also offer data visualizationof your usage and routines in graph form.The San Francisco-based startup, which was founded back in 2013,islaunching Droplet on Kickstarter today to try to raise$80,000incrowdfundingfrom people willingto expand the quantity ofnotifications in their life (via the promise of greater utility)andturn their current (working) prototype into a shipping product, starting in December.Droplet isnot the teams first startup. Japa waspitching a prior startup, HealthCrew, on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt NY last May. While his co-founder Joshua Newth previously worked at a medical device startup, Cardica. The team is advised byLex Bayer, whois also a seed investor. They have otherwise been bootstrapping development up to this point.