Hi,Im the founder and CEO of SpongeBath and we are running an exciting Kickstarter campaign: SpongeBath  The Revolutionary SpongeHolder.Its the first designer sponge holder that will store, clean & sanitize sponges. Its patented technology will make homes cleaner & safer.Im calling it. Peak crowdfunding. The ratio of overcooked conceptstoideas that might genuinely be called revolutionary has long been skewed on crowdfunding platforms, but when a founder is pitching a revolutionarysponge holder with a straight face a line has surely been crossed.Weve had some peak crowdfunding moments before. Last yearspotato salad springs to mind. But that was a joke/performance art. SpongeBath isnt even ironic. At least, I dont *think* it is. (In fact, at the time of writing, its attractedmore than $35,000 in Kickstarter pledges and looks about as plausible as, well, a sanitizing-sponge-holder-in-the-making can.)Its just, well, a sponge holder.Crowdfunding is debt. Its a way to pre-sell an idea to raise the money to pay for making the thing you think is a good idea. Along the way you get to figure out whether it really isa good idea or not because people vote with their wallets.On the one hand thats very democratic. On the other we arrive atSpongeBath and its over-enthusiastic washing up regime-changing claims.Maybe there has always been marketing. But crowdfunding is marketing without the costs associated with producingthe thing youre trying to sell. So its unfettered marketing. Marketing divorced from fiscal responsibility. Sans sanity-checking.All you need is a few bucksto mock up a prototype/render and few moreto make a video where you pretendyour vapourware alreadyexists  perhaps photographing it positioned on some rugged rocksoverlooking a sun-soaked ocean and off yougo. Just add a liberal sprinkling ofmarketing buzzwords, hit publish on your revolutionary crowdfunding campaign and watch the pre-orders roll in. Or not.And so, in recent months, TechCrunch has beensent emailstoutinga Revolutionary Carry-on Backpack, a revolution in headwear, a revolutionary new kickflipping scooter!, a revolutionary home automation solution, an LED light stick containing revolutionary technology, a revolutionary product for the sport fishing industry, a revolutionary USB-C Macbook hub, an incredible new temporary seating solution that wants to create a revolution in an industry that has been dying for a low-cost solution, a revolutionary fitness drinks bottle plus powdered supplement holder, a revolutionary no-sweat pant, a revolutionary ice cube tray, a toilet cleaning revolution.No, reallyAnd thats just a very small sample from the pitch inbox.Thing is, the more SpongeBaths there are, the more revolutionary toilet cleaners and sweat-free pants crowding out crowdfunding platforms, the more likely the entire category will become saturated withits own tediousnoise pollution.Perhaps this is the inevitable evolution of crowdfunding. A concept that was uncorked ina fizzy dream of democratized creativity  a placewhere unconventional artistscould stretch their long legsandround-pegged folk find fit in a square-holed world  wakes up from a period ofdelirious euphoria to discover all thebooze hasgone flat and a bunch of earnest strangers are sitting on theliving roomsofa discussing their favoriteJames Blunt songs.This is crowdfundingmoving inexorably into themiddle of the road.It feels akin to howearly eBay became bogged down withidentikit mass production inventory and a playbook of biddingscam schemes. The rule of thumb appears to besomething like if you build it, the drosswill come.In the pre-digitalera, SpongeBath might wellhave appeared in the (now defunct)Innovations Catalogue,where earlier iterations of other suchrevolutionary gizmos e.g. extendable window cleaners,portable paper shredders, snore-stoppers, one-size-fits-all galoshes, fur-lined vibrating golf club covers and so on and on and on were born in ink only to die in the paper recycling bin, along with the previousyears barelythumbedYellow Pages.This kind of stuff is more incidental and incremental thaninnovative. Its a joketo callitrevolutionary.Crowdfunding websites are fastbecomingthe standard bearers for all theniche clutter aimingto twist a buck out of over-saturated consumer product spaces. Oftenthese areproducts of dubious utility. Just occasionally they maybea little ingenious. Most often theyre just mundane. Whatever they are, crowdfunding as a category is becoming synonymouswithasea of less-than-fantastic plastic and its attendant tone-deaf marketing.Sure,there are still some gems among all the dross. But if you have to sift through the equivalent of 100 self-retracting selfie sticks to find oneRaspberry Pi desktop computer prototypeworth dreaming aboutthats a pretty tediousratio. And judging by the pitch emails TechCrunch gets, crowdfunding platforms are awash with an awful lot ofdross these days. We cant be surebecause frankly we got tired of hearingso manynonsensical claims.So heres to the real dreamers still pitching their ideas into the public cauldron  and hoping to stand out amid a sea of dross. Good luck! Therest of you, pleasethink really really long and hard before contributing to the noise pollution. Youre certainly contributing to my sense of crowdfunding fatigue.