Some have criticised Google for falling behind when it comes to social networking and new communications services, but the company is now working hard to catch up. Today, the company announced a new video calling app called Duo  a high-definitionapp for Android and iOS devices.Duo was unveiled on the heels of Allo, Googles new smart messaging app. Why the decision to launch two separate apps? A couple of reasons, it seems. The first is to keep the experiences simple and lightweight; and the second: to do something a little different from the rest of the pack. Facebook, for example, has supercharged Messenger with smart bots, as well as voice and video calling and more on top of its basic text messaging service.While Allo is focused on interacting with Googles assistant bot and with potentially many friends and may be more comparable to something like Messenger, Duos comparison is something more like Apples FaceTime: you use it for one-on-one conversations.With the app only due to go live later this year  likely this summer, similar to Allo  among the details that Google is making public today is a preview feature, which gives users a real-time image of the person calling you before the call is actually connected. Google calls this Knock Knock.The other thing that Duo is touting is the engineering that has gone into making the video in the app work. Google says it willwork the samewhether your networkis superfastor patchy. This in itself, if it really bears out, would be amazing for anyone who has cursed his or herway through a bad Hangout or Skype call.Duo was built by the same team that created WebRTC and it uses WebRTC, engineering director Erik Kay said today on stage at I/O. It was built usinga new programming protocol, Quic, which Googleunveiled last year as a route to speeding up data-heavy applications that travel over the web.While Google tells me that Hangouts will continue to exist as its own mobile app even with the launch of Duo and Allo, thefact that Hangouts comes with a history  some good, some bad  may also be why Google opted for a completely different branding and experience for Duo.As with Allo, Duo will let you connect with users in your phone book, offering us one more way to bypass our mobile carriers when making calls. Its unclear whether it will interoperate with other video services.While Allo was uncovered months before now, it looks like Google has managed to keep Duo under wraps, with the only leak about an upcoming video app in recent times being of a Periscope-like competitor.