Productivity app maker EasilyDo is best known for its smart assistant for iPhone that lets you do things like organize your travel plans, track shipments, update your contacts, create personalized email alerts, and more. Now the company is taking some of its best features to a just-launched email application that has thisassistant feature built in. In addition, thenew EasilyDo Mail app offers several unique features aimed at differentiating its app from other alternative mail clients on iOS, including tools to detect and prevent email tracking, ways to quickly unsubscribe from newsletters and automated mailings, email snoozing, and faster search, to name a few.A year in development, theres a polish to EasilyDos email app that isnt always seen with new releases. Its clear the company has taken a thoughtful approachto its entry in thiscompetitive market.One of the best things about the new mail app is that it immediately seems familiar to those who have yet to break away from iOSs native email client. Messages are presented to you in much the same way  bolded senders with the subject line and preview of the text that follows; blue dots to indicate unread status; timestamps on the right. The button for bulk editing is even in the same spot  the upper right of the screen. For a moment, you may also be fooled into thinking youre in iOSs mail app.But youll soon detect the numerousenhancements.For instance, you can swipe on messages to take actions, but theyre different from theiOS app. To archive and trash emails, you use left short and long swipes; while to snooze or mark as read, you use right short and long swipes.Several of EasilyDos smart assistant tools have been ported toits mail app as well, like the ability to track your packages, view tickets and reservation info, or find all the information related to an upcoming trip in a single spot. You can also view your bills and receipts or just pull up all emails with attachments. All of these items are located in the left-hand navigation sidebar, tucked away under the hamburger-style menu at the top left.Under the Assistant heading, which is where your emails have been organized into these helpful categories like Travel, Packages, Entertainment, etc., theres alsoa Subscriptions section.Here, youll find a list of your email subscriptions and you can unsubscribe with just a tap. This is one of the most convenient tools in the app, in fact  and something that before required a standalone application like Unroll.me in order to do from mobile.Beyond the larger feature set, the app is filled with other tools and tweaksthat speak to an understanding ofwhat sort of things could prompt someone to give up the native email app for a third-party client.This includes features like theundo send and undo delete actions, interactive push notifications, email signature customization per account, an HTML composer, real-time sync, the ability to detect and block read receipts, the ability to snooze messages for later, customizable notifications (so you only get pushed alerts for important mail), and faster search by contacts and keywords.Finally, a key feature is EasilyDo Mails speed.The company took a variety of steps to make the app faster than other mail clients, by doing things like tuning the app for each interface (Gmail, Yahoo, etc.); being smart about how messages are loaded; canceling search requests from processing when the user moves onto another task; and hundreds of other adjustments.Plus, EasilyDo has forgone the typical server-side processing model,which is why it took the 30-person team a year to build this email app.That would have been easiest for usbut when we figured out that speed and privacy were important, we realized we had to build it from the client,CEOMikael Berner says.We decided to do it allon the handset for security, privacy and speed, he added. Were so fast that we can pull down 200,000 messages in 10 minutes.Since its soft launch a few days ago, the company was seeing over 50 percent user retention by the second day, Berner alsotold us. By the third day, it climbed to over 58 percent.A number of startups over the years have tried to one-up the default native email application installed on operating systems from Apple, Microsoft, and Google. And when those alternative mail clients are very good, they tend to be snatched up.Sparrow went to Google, for example. Mailbox to Dropbox. Acompli became Microsoft Outlook on mobile. Not all the outcomes were good  Mailbox and Sparrow shut down.EasilyDo is fortunate that its business model is not entirely consumer-focused, like others have been. It doesnt entirely rely on the in-app subscription revenues that come from its assistant app. (Of its 2.5 million-plus users, some 2.5 to 3 percent are paying subscribers).Instead, roughly three-quarters of its revenue comes from licensing its A.I.technology and algorithms to other email providers, including small to midsize developers and a couple big names. Ithas been cash-flow positive for now 18 months.Thenewmail app is as much a demo of EasilyDostechnology as it is another consumer play, but its definitely one worth checking out.