If theres one thing I dislike about owning a home, its when the time comes to paint a room.If I do it myself, I go crazy before the prep work is even done. So. Much. Masking. Tape.If I hire someone, I end up spending just as much time talking to friends/neighbors/the Internets trying to find a reputable local painter only to never be quite certain I made the right choice.EasyPaint, a Disrupt SF 2015 Battlefield company, wants to make it, well, easy.Though currently only available in the Washington, D.C., Metro area, using EasyPaint feels a bit like using Handy (or Homejoy, before it keeled over). Its a formula the startup world knows and loves: take something frustrating and put it behind the click of a button or two.A point-and-click interface helps you input the basic details about the job. You tell it what sort of room youre looking to have painted, toss a few photos in, give them an approximation of the room size, then check any items that may make things more complicated  things like doors and windows.A few hours later, they send you an estimate. Tap a date on the calendar, and your appointment is set  theyll source the painters from a short list of crews theyve already put to the test, and theyll bring the paint.EasyPaint handles the scheduling, communication, customer service, payment and sourcing of the paint and painters; in exchange, they make a 15 percent service fee on each transaction.
One footnote: while their site currently pitches them as a service for homeowners, CEO Marty Cornish tells me theyve really found their footing in the last few months as a B2B company; whereas a homeowner might need one or two rooms painted a year (if that), businesses (be it real estate agents or tech companies) need painters constantly  and they often find the process just as painful as I do. By focusing on these groups, theyre solving a pain point for a group that can bring in a pretty much endless stream of business.EasyPaint was founded by Marty Cornish, Oliver Harriehausen and Denis Abrams  the last of which was the former CEO of Benjamin Moore, the paint company that was acquired by Berkshire Hathaway for a billion dollars in 2000. Their advisors, meanwhile, include Aaron Lee  CTO of Home Depot and Founder of TechCrunch50 winner RedBeacon.