In the U.S., the online classifieds space has been dominated for years by Craigslist, despite its failure to adaptto newer technologies, including mobile. That has left room for newcomers to angle their way into the market, including big companies like Facebook, with its local selling groups, as well assmaller startups, liketop-ranked shopping apps OfferUp and letgo. Ebay has also been quietly growing its own local selling marketplace amid this competition, and says today that its Close5 app has been downloaded more than 7 million times to date.Thats up from just 250,000 users as of June of last year, indicating the massive room for growth in the mobile, local selling arena.Ebay hasnt formally discussed its plans with Close5 until now, having instead focused on building the apps community andwranglingstrategic partnerships, like a newer one with a startup called Lugg, whichallows users to arrange to have items transported across town in an Uber-like fashion.Trying to unseat CraigslistWhile eBay is best known for its online marketplace for buying and selling, it also runs local classified businesses in 17 markets worldwide, featuringa dozenbrands. This makes it the largest classifieds company in the world. Today it has classified apps in countries like The Netherlands, Germany, the U.K., Denmark, Singapore, Australia, South Africa, Canada and elsewhere.In 10 of its markets, eBays classifieds app is considered the market leader, and its apps are often No. 1 in the local App Store.Combined, the classified services group at eBay generated more than$700 million in revenue in 2015, according to eBays earnings  that makes it a significant business at the company, and also one where eBay has a lot of experience it can pull from now that its aiming to repeat its success in the U.S.That said, the U.S. market is far more competitive, and unseating Craigslist has proven to be a difficult feat.Still, eBay believes that Craigslists lack of a solid mobile strategy leaves room for new competition.It hasnt adopted new technology, like mobile. That is the angle where we go in and reinvent the buying and selling process, explains Close5s CMO, Oezguer Cakir. That meansmaking use of the mobile device in many cases  one, of course, is getting the proximity and your location, but the other part is making use of your camera.However, eBay isnt just focused on making local selling mobile-friendly. Its also rethinking everything about how classifieds should operate on mobile, from the visual layout to userprivacy to transactions and more.For starters, Close5 is designed to be a highly visual app. The company wants users to launch the app when they have time to kill. That would make it different from standard e-commerce sites, which consumers visit with a specific goal in mind. Instead, the idea is to offer a somewhat Pinterest-like inspirational browsing experience.The app also addresses a few areas where Craigslist has fallen short, including speed, user privacy, managing transactions, transportation of larger items and more.Thanks to eBays knowledge of building marketplaces, Close5 is designed to be fast for sellers to list. Within 3 seconds you can post an item for sale either within your own neighborhood or as far out as 50 miles.Close5also lets users communicate privately rather thansharing phone numbers, emails or addresses. Buyers and sellers can simply agree to meet at a public location to make anexchange.Today, Close5 isnt facilitating transactions within the application, so any estimates of sales volume are difficult at this time. However, the company is actively working onthis feature, among others.An upcoming version of Close5 will help users pick nearby spots to meet by suggesting meetup places like local coffee shops or malls. Another feature will offer calendar integration in order to suggest available times to meet.Ebay is also experimenting with adding different services that can help make transactions smoother. One such test is the Lugg integration, noted above.Weve integrated Lugg with some of our itemsif you buy a couch and you dont have a big car, you needsomeone to help you, Cakir explains. [We are] seeing if users adopt thisits a small test, he notes. Other tests are underway as well, but eBay isnt prepared to discuss these, he Cakir adds.Competitors beyondCraigslistEBay clearlyhas the background and resources to develop a local selling service for the U.S.  its small team working on Close5 is100 people strong, one-third ofwhom focus on customer service. However, it wont necessarily be the one that wins on mobile.Today, letgo is the No. 2 Shopping app (free) on Apples App Store and rival OfferUp isNo. 3. Ebay, meanwhile, lists Close5 in the less competitive Lifestyle category, where its No. 4 (free). That makes it difficult to compare directly, but its worth noting that Close5 is ranked No. 223 overall, while letgo is No. 46 and OfferUp is No. 49.Plus, Facebook has millions of groups on its site, and has said before that sale groups are the most popular category.EBay declined todiscuss active users numbers for Close5 today,but Cakirball-parked its traction relative to the companysother properties.When we compare our Close5 user engagement with our other classifieds businesses around the world  even though were in the early stages  the engagement of the users is as high as the mature markets. So its really positive, he says.Close5 is a free download for iOS and Android.