Air shouldnt really be something you have to spend too much time thinking about. You breathe it in, then breathe out. All good. Unfortunately, sometimes air quality sucks and you have to invest in an air purifier, which you then generally have to spend too much time thinking about how to operate.Blueair isintroducing acouple of connected air purification products to ensure that your devices do the thinking for you, and you just do the breathing. TheWi-Fi connected air purifier called the Sense+and an always-on air qualitymonitor called the Awareare the companys first real foray into smart home items.Ive had the chance to spend the last couple of months with the Sense+ and Aware sitting in my bedroom and I can say theyvebeen a pair of pretty helpful, yet unassuming, roommates. Now, Im not living in an area where theres regularly a ton of smog pollution, but for some reason the old apartment Im living in is chronically dusty, which is generally annoying. The Sense+ has noticeablytaken care of the air quality without reminding me about it with the deafening whirring noise most air purifiers create.Air purifiers arent products I would necessarily go out of my way to call sexy, but the Blueair Sense+ is unassumingly well-designed to the point thatpeople havent been left asking what the hell is that? when they see it sitting in my apartment. Its build quality is stellar, it isnt too large and the touch controls on the top of the unit are pretty futuristic feeling.Herman Pihltrd, Blueairs President, said the companys emphasis on design is no mistake and has really been essential in itshistory.He said Blueairhas always looked to avoid selling consumers large plastic boxes, and has instead strived to create products that have gone on to win design awards.Design is one thing, but nobody buys air purifiers just because they look good. Fortunately, the team at Blueair has continued to really focus on improving performance andthe noise levels of its purifiers.The company says itsHEPASilentfiltration process captures 99.97 percent of particles in the air, with air flow 60-70 percent better than most competitors in the space. Blueairswebsite says the filters on average need to be replaced just about every six months.Working alongside the Sense+ is the Aware, a separate, cool little sensor that monitors air quality and gives you a snapshot of what youre breathing.Both of these connected products are managed through the Bluair Friend app, which lets you check in on some clean air metrics like particulate matter concentration, carbon dioxide levels and humidity, whilealso acting as your remote control for the Sense+, allowing you to adjust the intensity of the fan or enable Auto Mode.Auto Mode is an awesome feature which links the Aware and Sense+ and really lets you stop worryingabout air quality, as the Aware measures air purity and adjusts the fan levels of the Sense+ accordingly.The Aware and the Sense+ are available at Bloomingdales and sold separately at $199 and $499 respectively, but if you want the full benefits of Blueairs connected platform you really do need both. Without the Aware, all the Wi-Fi capabilities of the Sense+ offeris the ability to adjustits fan strength via thephone app. Meanwhile the Aware is left only giving air-quality measurements, which other sensors can do at a much lower cost.The real highlight is how effortlessly these products work together. When you have problems like asthma or live in a city with serious pollutionproblems, air quality is something you have to be concerned about all the time. Whats awesome about these products from Blueair is that you dont have to think about how the product isworking after you set it up. Auto Mode keeps the air levels in check and quiets the fan speed when everythings looking good.Its an expensive duo of products, no doubt, but in a world full of clunky, loud, cheap air purifiers, Blueair is sellingconnected devices that arewell-designed and wont require too much concernon the part of the user.