For families where the children spend time commuting back and forth between parents houses, keeping track of everyones schedule can be a challenge for moms, dads and kids alike. Thats a problem that Alex Jordan, age 11, has faced firsthand, which is why she returned this weekend to the TechCrunch Disrupt SFHackathon to work on Famtastic, a combination family organizer and private social network for families and other caregivers, like grandparents and nannies.This is Alexs second time competing at the TechCrunch Hackathon. In 2013, sheworked on Super Fun Kid Time  a playdate finder.Alex says she came up with the idea for the new project, Famtastic, because her own mom and dad live in separate houses, and its been hard to keep up with whos dropping her off or picking her up from her various activities and lessons.I would be having a sleepover with my friends, Alex explains. [And Id have to ask my parents] are you picking us up? When are you coming?, she says. You feel like youre always bugging them.Along with dad Richard, who works at Ron Johnsons e-commerce startup Enjoy, a concierge service for gadget owners, the team of two built a basic family organizer website over the course of the weekend. Alex says she did some of the HTML templates for Famtastic, and has been practicing her Ruby coding.Currently, the site lets users create a profile by connecting their Facebook accounts, which then allows them to color-code the activities and events that are entered on the planner accordingly. The site indicates whichcaregiver has which task covered, and it helps you go back and track how well youre keeping up with your familys shared custody agreements.The idea, notes Richard, isto offera low-friction alternative to using a shared calendar, like Apples or Googles Calendar, for example. Not everyone uses the same calendaring platform, which can make coordinating schedules difficult, and often results inparents and kids turning to text messages instead.Plus, the user interface on Famtastic is easier to scroll through and view at a glance, asits presented more like a news feed than a traditional calendar.In the future, the system could allow for more advanced features like user permissions or photo-sharing, if the two decide to continue the project after the weekend. (Alex wants to finish their older hackathon project first, she says.)Alex has been interested in tech for some time, findingtime to work on coding in between her French horn lessons and basketball, she says. This year, shestrying to start a Girls Tech Club at herSunnyvale-based middle school. A few of her friends are already interested in signing up, Alex tells us.The clubs goal would be to interest girls in technology at an earlier age, the young coder explains. This is the age where we lose a lot of girls, she says. Asked why she thinks that is, Alex guessed it could be because this is the age where girls become more interested in social activities, rather than things like computers and coding.Richard will be soon meeting with the school principal to see about getting a room for the girls to meet. He hopes it goes well  they had less luck when they wanted to do something similar in elementary school, he says.The two said theyre not necessarily here at the hackathon in hopes ofscoring tickets to TechCrunch Disrupt this week. Instead, says Richard, theyre here to have fun.If we win, its just a bonus, adds Alex.