Senator Elizabeth Warren has some choice words for Uber, TaskRabbit, Alfred and all the other companies taking part in the so-called gig economy, as she put it in a speech Thursday for the New America Foundations annual conference. She isnt against them by any means, but urged both the companies and lawmakers to make labor-friendly changes: No worker should fall through the cracks.In her speech, the Senator praised the role of technology in advancing industry and challenging our expectations. But, right on cue, the other shoe dropped.Heres the deal: Innovations improve our lives & create new wealth. But policy will determine if workers share in that wealth. #itspersonal Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) May 19, 2016Low is, of course, relative: Uber drivers tend to earn about $15-20 per hour, but must pay for their own gas and maintenance, among other things. It can be a good deal, but scales poorly. (Thats one reason why, until the problem is fixed through other means, you should tip them.)And when you bring in the lack of benefits and job security, the job starts looking a lot less like areal job. But this is hardly a new problem, Warren pointed out.The gig economy didnt invent any of these problems. In fact, the gig economy has become a stopgap for some workers who cant make ends meet in a weak labor market. The much-touted virtues of flexibility, independence, and creativity offered by gig work might be true for some workers under some conditions, but for many, the gig economy is simply the next step in a losing effort to build some economic security in a world where all the benefits are floating to the top 10%.The Senator followed this with a number of suggestions for how to improve the lot of workers who find themselves working two or three 1099-type jobs, without overly dampening the positive effect and innovation these services bring. Ive condensed them below for your convenience (free of charge).First, expand the safety net full-time workers have to at least partially encompass the rest.Next, streamline and enforce labor laws.Having invoked the image of the Industrial Revolution, with its unregulated and lethal factories, earlier in her speech (though sensibly; no TaskRabbit workers have been ground up in mills  yet), Warren suggested the moment is at hand for a major shift in regulation to accommodate these new industries while also protecting the people who work in them.Just as this country did a hundred years ago, its time to rethink the basic bargain between workers and companies, she said. As greater wealth is generated by new technology, how can we ensure that the workers who support this economy can share in that wealth?