Flanked by her lawyers Alan Exelrod and Therese Lawless, Pao read a short statement. Embedded above is video (amateur video shot on my cellphone, that is) and transcribed below are her comments in full:I want to thank my family and my friends for your love and support during this very challenging time. Im grateful to my legal team for getting me a day in court, and to everyone around the world, male and female, who have reached out to express support in so many different ways, and to tell me that my story is their story too, and their gratefulness to me for telling my story. I have told my story, and thousands of people have heard it.If Ive helped to level the playing field for women and minorities in venture capital, then the battle was worth it. Nows the time for me to get back to my career, to my family, and to my friends. Thank you all very much.After reading the statement, Pao demurred from answering additional questions being shouted out by the assembled press. Along with her lawyers, she swiftly headed toward the buildings elevators. Theres no word at the moment on whether she will appeal the ruling.Pao also Tweeted a series of messages:1. Thank you, world. Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20152. I have been inspired by the thousands of people who have reached out to me over the past three years with support. Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20153. Ive heard from people in Kazakhstan, Bangladesh, Australia, Malaysia, France, Argentina, Norway, Tanzania, Finland, and beyond. Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20154. Because of social media and live reports, the problem of gender discrimination in venture capital has received attention around the globe Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20155. While todays outcome is a disappointment, I take consolation in knowing that people really listened Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20156. If we do not share our stories and shine a light on inequities, things will not change Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20157. Hopefully my case will inspire the venture capital industry to level the playing field for everyone, including women and minorities Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 20159. To support the entrepreneurs of tomorrow, we need to show leadership today. Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 201510. And thank you to the team and board @reddit for standing by me. Ellen Pao (@ekp) March 28, 2015