Some EMC employees got some harsh news this weekas anticipatedlayoffs have begun at the Massachusettscompany. A company spokesperson confirmed the news,but declined to offer a specific number of affected employees. CRN first reported the news.At the end of last month EMC telegraphed the move when itfiled paperwork with The SEC. At the time, the companyindicatedthat it would be implementing an $850 million cost-cutting measure that would include layoffs.True to its word, thoselayoffs started this week,and areexpected to be mostly completed by the end of the first quarter. EMC currently has 50,000 employees. The company would not say how many of these would be laid off in this action.The move comes against the backdrop of the $67 billion Dell-EMC deal announced in October, and expected to go through some time later this year. Even as the two companies plan to combine, EMC has been making moves of its own including this cost-cutting measure.Shortly after the Dell acquisition was announced, EMC and VMware reported that the two companies intended to spin out Virtustream, the company EMC bought last May for $1.2 billion, as a jointly owned separate company.The plan was to have Virtustreams results appear on VMwares books.As some background, EMC owns 80 percent of VMware, but it operates a separate companywith its own stock and accounting. Thenew companydidnt go over so well with VMware stock holders and the stock price began to slide. Finally last month, likelyin an attempt to stopthe bleeding, the company announced it was walking away from the Virtustream deal. EMC would continue with the planned new company, but VMware was no longer involved.As we wrote at the time as way of at least partial explanation:Part of the problem is the way the Dell-EMC has been structured, using a concept called tracking stocks. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Dell will pay EMC shareholders $24.05 per share, but it will pay the remainder of $9.10 per share in stock that tracks against the price of VMwares stock. As the price of VMware drops, that provision continues to decline in value.That could be a big reason that VMware decided to cut its losses and try to restore shareholder confidence by walking away from the Virtustream part of the deal. If it doesnt own 50 percent of the deal, it doesnt have to deal with the [new] companys projected first-year short-fall.Regardless, EMC is still a separately run entity and as this cost-cutting measure shows, it is continuing to operate that way until the Dell acquisition is finalized. Who knows? Thiscould be about fiscal responsibility and cutting costs or it could be about reducing its workforce ahead of the acquisition. Whatever the reason, some people are out of work today and thats never a good thing.