Siri is good for a lot of things, but she generally doesnt care much whether you sound your usual perky self. Launching today isEmoWatch,a new app for your iPhone and Apple Watch that will take care of that side of things, helping you track your emotional state.The EmoWatch app identifies and tracks userss emotions from their voices, regardless of language, by analyzing vocal properties.EmoWatch is basically a technical demo app forSmartmedical Corps Empath. Well, I say app; its nota very advanced one: The iPhone app issparse to the point of being just barelyon the right side of a minimum viable product. Frankly, Im surprised they were able to get it past the iTunes AppStore reviewers, but itdoes do what it needs to: offer a conduit to the Apple watch, and showing a read-out (in the form of a graph) of your moods throughout the day. And literally nothing else. If you dont have an Apple Watch, youll be mightily confused, because the iPhone app doesnt give you the slightest hint about what youre meant to do.Extreme minimalismdidnt stop me from being absolutely fascinated, however.Most of the magic is happening server-side, behind the scenes. Itworks by taking a short sample of your voice.The app appears to be content after just 2-3 seconds, barely enough time to get a full sentence out. It then analyzes the audio sample for a number of parameters, includingintonation, pitch, speed, and volume.Thetechnology is related purely to a personsvoice, rather than the words they are using. The appattempts to measure four dimensions of emotion: Joy, sorrow, anger, and calmness. In theory, the company claims, this means that users of all linguistic backgroundsshould be able to use it.Of course, Empath isnt the only horse in this game; Good VibrationsandBeyond Verbaloffer similar functionality, but as far as Ican tell, neither offer the same real-time feedback loopas the Empath API.On the topic of accuracy  I wasnt able to test in depth how well the mood analyzing techactually works, but it generally appears to be roughlyinthe right ballpark: I felt mildly stressed earlier today, and the app picked up that I was less than chipper. As Im writing this, I have a bottleof Grapefruit Sculpin,Im relaxed, listening to some music and writing. And once I hit publish on this article, its the weekend. No wonder the app reports Im hunky-dory.