Theres a new body-tracking workout outfit that looks to compete with the likes of Athos and other workout-tracking sensors thats launching on Kickstarter today.Enflux, a Y Combinator-backed company, is starting a Kickstarter today for its sensor-laden workout outfit (that can even go in a washing machine). And its basically all thanks to a series of running injuries CEO Doug Hoang suffered in the months following his work on sensors for racing cars.it was really talking with [my co-founders]at the same time, they have extensive experiencein exercise, Hoang said. You can do this, they said, so Ihadthese motion sensors we developed, Icouldstrap them to my legs that measure yaw, pitch and roll. Ididnt even have a car back then so it was a little misalignmentof the problem, but when I started training for triathlons it was like, this is the next big thing.'Enfluxs equipment consists of a shirt and pants that are loaded with sensors that track your form as you work out. The goal is to help people get the right form down and serve as a sort of personal trainer that works on your smartphone. Theres an avatar on your phone that lets you review your exercises, as well as a series of stats that help you understand whether or not youre getting the exercise right.Theres going to be a big challenge for Enflux: the tech is about a year out from shipping, including getting the full sign-off on its patents. That could open the door for other competitors to beat the company to the market with similar  and potentially superior  products. But Hoang, with a background in engine design, says the approach of each company is a little different.Originally the equipment consisted of a bunch of strap-on sensors that sit on your body, but now those sensors are being placed into an actual shirt and pants. They sit pretty tight on the body, and Hoang says the equipment has around a two-week battery life. There are ten sensors in total that sit around the body to translate movement to a smartphone app that then records all that.The company is working with around 500 personal trainers to help establish a baseline of the right form and style of workouts, and the company continues to add new exercises with the help of those personal trainers and experts. Over time, itll also collect data on how people exercise and tweak the process to better tailor exercises to people with different styles and body types.All thisisdesigned to be focused on your form and give you feedback in an attempt to prevent injury and help people progress in their training. Manyrunnerscanprobably relate to Hoang and find this useful: knee injuries are among one of the most annoying problems that can keep you off the trail, and it can sometimes be prevented by other exercises and fixing running form, Hoang says.The other goalis that the company wants tobegin partnering with other services  ones like, potentially, MyFitnessPal  to better integrate with the whole fitness and health experience. Right now Enflux doesnt have any specific plans, but hopes to play nice with other services, Hoang said.Enflux is going up against some serious competition  especially for a product thats still a year from launch. Athos, another smart apparel company, has raised $51 million, most recently in a round led by Social+Capital. And there are other trackers looking to work as wearables like Atlas. Atlas, too, ran a successful campaign on Indiegogo where the project raised more than $600,000.One interesting note is that Hoang will be moving to Taiwan in order to better manage the complicated relationship that hardware companies often have with manufacturers. For example, the first shipment of sensors that they received werent working because they just werent getting the spec exactly right in production. Hoang will be a mobile CEO, which may be challenging for the company, but likely necessary in order to ensure that the process goes smoothly.Its always gonna be like that, because weve failed often and they know the tech well, Hoang said. Thats why were putting thisa year out is a year out of making small tests of every process we go through before we do the full order.