
Aaron Levie is the Chief Executive Officer of Box. Outside of the tech industry, an unmistakable trend is sweeping the business world.Companiesin industries as far ranging as transportation, pharmaceuticals and manufacturingare facingthe pressures ofdigital disruption.As we move irreversibly into an economy defined bynewcompetitive parameters, incumbents saddled with legacy cultures, business processes, and technology arestuckin the past.Others,like GE, Ford, WalmartandDeloitte, have realized thattheres no way to compete in the future if they dont adapt now.To do so, the way theirorganizationsoperate, the tools they run on, and the productsthese companiesdeliver will have to change.Workers are becoming more mobile, organizations are becoming more collaborative, firms are connecting with their partners and peers via digital networks, and traditionally analog products are being tied to the internet.As enterprises begin to adapt tothedigital economy, theyneed all new underlying technologies to get them there. And while todays enterprise software market is massive anestimated$330 billionspent annually its predominantly made up of software categories that have been around for decades, like ERPandCRM. The far bigger opportunity for software startups will be building the technology that helps businesses in all sectors go digital.Thisnew software stack will dwarf that of the traditional landscape,creatinga trillion-dollar enterprise software market in the process.The Next Billion Information WorkersTo many of us, mobility means that were now connected for even more hours of the day, never more than a couple secondsaway from an email or task. But mobile has the profound effect of lighting up an entirely new part of the workforce that rarely used technology to do their jobs. Information workers are no longer defined as solely those sitting behind a desk, but instead include anyonewhocan leverage data to dohis or herjob better.Just five years ago, we wouldnt have imaginedthata farmerorconstruction workercould be an information worker.Butwith products like Farmlogs, Planet Labs and Airware in farming and agriculture, andPlanGrid or Skycatch in construction,all new demographics of the workforce are beingsupportedby information technology. And this is just the beginning. As every employee on the planet is enabled by a smartphone, the addressable market for enterprise softwaregrowsfrom about half a billion people to the billions of workers leveragingmobile devices to do their jobs.Every Job is Software-enabled, Every Industry is DigitizedJust as early accounting software helped CFOs keep the books in the 70s and 80s, and CRM became the digital enabler of the sales team in the mid-90s, every job function becomes software-enabled in the information economy. Zendesk did this for customer support, Zuora does this for the billing team, and GoodData, Tidemark, and Domo do this for business analysts. Killer apps, too, will emerge for roles traditionally outsidethe purview of Silicon Valley, like doctors, retail associates, police officers, pilots,and office managers.<Of course digitizedjob functions wont be the only way this disruption plays out. To connect every employee to critical information, hundreds of new startups are emerging to support companiesacross all sectors. Category-killing software will take over every industry, just as Veeva and athenahealthhavedominated Life Sciences and Healthcare, respectively. Well see similar disruptors infinancial services,manufacturing, oil and gas,supply chains,commercial real estate,retail, and more.And while information technology swept through most enterprises in the 90s and 2000s aiming toautomatethe back-office,this decade willbe all about extending thefront-office: how customers arediscovered, interacted with, supported, and sold to; how companies can exchange and collaborate with their vendors and partners; how researchers make discoveries and propagate them throughout their organization; and how products are designed, launched, and marketed.All Products Become Information-basedDigital enterprises dont just look different on the inside;they look different to their customers, too. Historically, information technology aided the development of goods and services behind the scenes, butgoing forward, a new set of technology will completely define them.<Products are going from analog to digital, as Nest, Uber, and Netflix have demonstrated with thermostats, transportation, and media,respectively. And this means that competitive use of technology willdeterminethe winners and losers of everylegacysector. The age of analog is over, and this puts many businesses in the unavoidable position of having to redefine thevery products theyve built their companies around (and the business models that go along withthem).Arming thesedisruptors attacksand incumbents responseswill be a new set of underlying platforms and tools. Today, few modular components exist for building smart devices, introducing predictive experiences into physical products or digital products, or making sense of the internet of things. For industrial companies to go digital, newstartups like Samsara and Heliumwill emerge topreventeachindustrialcompany from having to reinvent the wheel. As GE manages the data streams coming out of its jet engines, or Stanford Health Care delivers better virtual care beyond the hospital, new technologies will be required to support the effort, creating tremendous opportunities for startups that are building the platforms of tomorrow.The technologies that will power a new set of information workers, digitize entire job functions and industries, and push products from analog to digital for the most part have yet to be built. There is a massive opportunity for startups to define a new era of work, and its not just the products and platforms they build that will look completely different, but in some cases, their business models as well. Zenefitsisone of the fastest growing SaaS businesses of all time,and itsachieved thiswithouttaking budget from theIT department, but instead finding a completely separate revenue source from insurance brokerage fees. And as more business models emerge, enterprise software spend wont be constrained by IT budgets on its path to a trillion dollars.