Envoy, which provides early elderly care with a concierge service for tasks like delivering groceries, has raised $3 million and is launching today.Envoys pitch is that it provides a one-to-one concierge with seniors that dontquite need full-time assistance, but periodically need help with tasks like running errands and for in-home help like plumbing. These tasks are usually handled by family members, CEO Justin Lin said.The company is also launching in 17 markets, he said.Softech VC led the round, with Lowercase Capital, Vayner/RSE and othersparticipating.Envoy uses a subscription model that works out to around $199 per month, but there are options that cost less  which Lin says is a competitive deal compared to other in-home care providers. Family members will also have access to remote monitoring, including things like photos and receipts, which aims to remove some of the anxiety over employing an unknown person to provide care for a senior family member.Its basically, youre living at home, mom and dad are getting older but they start needinga little bit of help, Lin said. Theyre not ready to hire a full-blown caregiver, they dont need help getting dressed, they dont need someone to come every day but they need a little support. And they need that personal touch and trust factor  thats actually a long period of time.The application process is rigorous, Lin said, running through a chain from an interview, to a background check, and a one-on-one interview with other successful Envoys. If a potential provider makes it through that, there are still evaluations and other checks and balances, and they have to attend what the company is calling an Envoy school  where they learn about the application and what customers expect.Envoys generally serve multiple clients, they serve their own schedule  its flexible but also predictable, Lin said. Its a different talent pool of folks who love to do this sort of thing, thats how were able to find great people, and were also good at operationalizing the process. Weve scaled things before. weve built a lot of software to help with that.The primary competition here are existing firms that provide one-to-one care providers  or even places like Craigslist. And of course, there are families that still want to care for their parents. Still, the sweet spot for Envoy is something that isnt necessarily effectively covered by those firms, Lin said. Its the 3.7 years or so where only partial care is necessary,he said. Still, there are a lot of services out there that individually handle these tasks  Instacart for groceries and other startups for services  so theres also a chance that the service may prove to be not entirely necessary.Lins answer: that one-to-one care component is whats going to clinch the sale and get families on board with Envoy.Really when it comes to seniors, for this to work well we really need to do certain things in particular differently, Lin said. That 1:1 customer relationship, thatreally does make a big differencewhen it comes to having your own dedicated person. The trust factor is key.