Were excited to announce that Eric Schmidt,Executive Chairman of Alphabet (formerly Google), will openthe TechCrunch China event in Beijing, which takes place November 2-3 at the Wukesong Hi-Park in Beijing.As one of the highest-profile executives in the technology space,Schmidt needs little introduction. He first joined Googlein 2001 and served as CEO for a decade, during which time it grewfroma startup into a tech giant. Beyond his involvement with Alphabet, Schmidt runsextensive philanthropic efforts, hes written two New York Times bestselling books andis a member of the U.S. Presidents Council of Advisors on Science.Sarah Lane, TechCrunchs Executive Producer of Video, will interview Schmidt on the opening day of the event. Google just made a major invest in Chinese natural language firm Mobvoi, the CEO of which is also speaking at the event, and theres been speculation about its future plans for China, so theres plenty to discuss.(Exciting side note: Sarah and her team willfile thedaily Crunch Reportand other video dispatches from China duringthe first week of November.)Beyond Schmidt, the schedule for the Beijing event  which is thesecond event of the year run with our Chinese partner Technode  ispacked full of top-notch entrepreneurs, sought-after investors, and othernotable tech figures.You can look through the agendain full here, but itincludes representatives from Twitter, Ninebot, Yota Devices, Y Combinator, Oculus, HTC, Mobvoi,Wandoujia, Rovio and Intel-backed drone companyYUNEEC, to name but a few. On the investor side, representatives from GGV,Sequoia, ChinaGrowth Capital are among thosetaking part in panel discussions and interviews on stage. There will also be a chance to connect withmore than 100 VCs  and get a 10 minute pitch  at our Meet-A-VC side event.In addition to the speaker and panel session line-up, there willbe an exhibition hall wheremore than 150 startups  acrossfintech,education, enterprise, smart home,VR and other verticals will show off their products and technology.Startups are a major focus of our events, and more than 300 teamsapplied for the startup competition at TechCrunch China Beijing. Weve whittled that list down to the final 15, each of which will demo their product at the event. The final five contestants will be selected to pitch on the main stage on the secondday of the show, aside from the main prize  each finalist is eligible for a1million ($160,000) convertible loan from VC firm Gobi Ventures.No TechCrunch event is complete without a hackthon, of course, and were excited to see the projects that emerge from the hackathon in Beijing.Ubuntu, Peugeot, Unilver, Getuit.com, and AWS are among the partners lending resources to help thoseparticipating get their hack on. At the end of the hackathon, each team will get a three-minute slot in which to wow the judges in the hopes of landing the top prize, which includes a spot at the event show floor, 20,000 (around$3,000) in cash, and host of free services.Were expecting 8,000 attendees  dont miss your chance to be among them, get your tickethere.See you in Beijing!