EShares digitizes paper stock certificates along with stock options, warrants, and derivatives to create a real-time picture of who owns what at a startup. It also makes it far simpler to transfer ownership of all of the above  which goes a long way in explaining the companys traction. The Mountain View, Ca.-based outfit right now maintains the cap tables of 1,500 companies, including Slack and Blue Bottle Coffee, and says its adding 200 more companies each month. Perhaps more important, eShares has won the trust of roughly 35 law firms, the gatekeepers for most startups and their paper certificates.But eShares  which has just raised $17 million in Series B funding at a post-money valuation of $77 million from insiders like Spark Capital and Union Square Ventures  isnt just racing to win over tech startups. Now, the 42-person company wants the rest of the worlds still-private small and mid-size businesses on its platform, too.We talked with cofounder and CEO Henry Ward about his big plans yesterday. Our conversation has been edited for length.TC: As of last year, eShares charged companies $159 a month or roughly $1,900 a year to maintain an ongoing valuation. It also charged a $20 fee every time a company issued a new grant and another $20 every time someone exercised the sale of one of their holdings.HW: That hasnt changed, and the model works well at the early stage, though a lot of our larger customers go to an all-you-can-eat annual subscription model. We dont publish the pricing (publicly) but that typically happens when companies hit 50 employees.Its worth noting that employees on eShares can hook up their bank account to their eShares account and self-exercise their options and we wire the money straight to the company, as well as issue the employee new stock certificates. Its much easier than the normal paper exercise, where employees have to get the company to process [the transaction every time they want to exercise their options].TC: You must have pretty good insight into whats happening in terms of secondary sales, too. Are you noticing more shares selling to insiders versus third parties or vice versa?HW: I cant talk specifics, but secondaries are getting a lot of attention. We joined forces with [the secondary investment firm] Industry Ventures [which participated in eShares new round] to work on streamlining the process and bringing more transparency to it.TC: As an investor, does Industry Ventures get first dibs on secondary sales where youre helping companies facilitate their movement?HW: Were kind of figuring it out, but Industry Ventures has access to a lot of deals and a lot of capital, and we have access to a lot of companies. Were trying to figure out what a proper secondary market would look like.As for whether buyers are insiders or third parties, a lot [or shares are]going to both. More companies are also doing sanctioned tenders [raising more money from investors during fundraising to allocate it for employee buybacks] to relieve pressure on secondaries. I suspect [such tenders] will either become more frequent, or companies will let buybacks happen by an approved buyer like an institutional investor [versus involving broker-dealers who try to match buyers and sellers].TC: How mightSEC Regulation A+, which allows companies to secure funding via crowdfunding provided theyre compliant with certainlaws and standards, impact your business? It must create challenges for the companies in managing their cap tables.HW: Wesupportcrowdfunding, but many early adopters [of crowdfunding] have been venture- and angel-backed companies, andwere suddenly finding the most growth in companies that are not venture backed, that are older, small- and medium-size businesses from Middle America. Many of themhave entrenched cap tables, but they do often give out equity stakes to employees and execs who are running the company on behalf of shareholders. These are often LLCs that are never going to go public but that are high-cash-flow businesses that issue membership units as a way to distribute profit interests. The largest have thousands of employees. Genewiz, a genomic services company in New Jersey, is one example.TC: How big a business do you think these companies will become for eShares?HW: Id say its about 20 percent right now in terms of the number of companies, butif you look at dollar value, its much higher because most that come to us are bigger. [Silicon Valley-type] startups are small companies. SMBs are often $50 million businesses. Think manufacturing plants and food distributors. And managing employee equity is just like managing payroll. In fact,they pay us almost as much as they pay for payroll.TC: That all sounds great, but also alot to take on for your 42-person company. Its a very fractured market. How are you going about customer acquisition?HW: Its very hard. Its mucheasier to convert the Silicon Valleynetwork. But what were finding works well is two things. First, we have anatural feedback loop. Companies tell other companies.Ifyoure on the board of one company, youre likely to be on the board of another company. Its less true in the [privately owned] SMB world than when it comes to publicly traded companies, but its still true.Also, while law firms were a tough nut to crack in Silicon Valley, were seeing a ton of traction with law firms catering to Middle America. Once we get introduced to those guys, theyre very excited to introduce us into their corporate work.