Verizon has apparently hit a snag with regard to its efforts aimed atcord cutters. The cable TV provider recently introduced a way to purchase TV channel packages via la carte bundles. But today, ESPNfiled a breach-of-contract lawsuit against Verizon, arguing that Verizons move to break out ESPNs channels into a separate sports tier that isnt apart of the core package is notauthorized by existing contracts.ESPN had previously declaredits unhappiness with Verizons new channel packages earlier this month, shortly after they went live for Verizons cablecustomers. The network a little over a week ago released a statement which claimed that Verizon didnt have the right to releasepackages that removed ESPNfrom the core lineup.With itsnew cord cutter bundles, Verizon is offering a $59.99 base package to which consumers can add extra content as they choose.According to Verizon, these TV packages are aimed at offering traditional cable subscribers more options when it comes to constructing the sort of channel lineup they want. Its meant to stave off those who would otherwise want to drop their cable TV subscriptions entirely, or drop down to basic cable in an effort to save money.In addition to the base offering, Verizonsnew cord cutter packages let customer pick and choose from other channel packs that are focused on specific genres  for example, there are packages dedicated to kids, news and sports.Its the latter where ESPN and ESPN 2 now reside. The channels are not included in the core package, which today offersonly the major broadcasters channels and a small number of popular cable networks like CNN, AMC, Food Network and others. Instead, customers have to opt to purchasethe sports package in order to access ESPN content. In other words, ESPN will only be viewed by those who are enough of a sports enthusiast that theyre willing to pay the extra $10 per month for the sports-themed channel pack.While the nature of ESPN and Verizons specific agreement is not detailed, withnetworks of its size, contracts typically state that the channels must be distributedto a certain percentage of customers or have to be made available in the broadest tier which reaches most of the cable TV customers.In a suit filed this morning in the New York Supreme Court, Disneys ESPN says its seeking to stop Verizon from unfairly depriving it of the benefits of its bargain, according to a report from CNBC.ESPN also released a statement about the lawsuit:ESPN is at the forefront of embracing innovative ways to deliver high-quality content and value to consumers on multiple platforms, but that must be done in compliance with our agreements. We simply ask that Verizon abide by the terms of our contracts.ESPN is not the only network to have issue with Verizons new packages, which seem to have been rolled out without the full green light from its partners. Fox Sports and NBCUniversal have also said that the new TV tiering packages do not comply with existing agreements. And both Fox and Disney said they would stop running Verizon FiOS TV ads on their networks as a result.Verizon is not alone in making the decision to market its service to cord cutters. Dish Network has also rolled out an internet TV service called Sling TV which caters to those who dont want to pay for Dishs satellite service or traditional cable.And Cablevision just last week introduced cord cutting packages of its own,but so far, it has only disclosed itspromotional pricingfor the main package, which makes customers wonder if theyre really getting a good deal.