Theres no doubting Etons grip onthe British establishment. The number of U.K.Prime Ministers who were educated at Eton College is 19 (byWikipedias count). So how does a rarified public school maintain the boundedprivileged of its selective, fee-paying education while also topping up itsprofits by wideningaccess to its teachingmethods? Online thats how.Eton College has announced the launch ofEtonX: a joint venture between its trading subsidiary, Eton Online Ventures, and edtech provider (andFounders Factory-backed)Eighteen70, whichwill offer Eton-branded e-learningcourses  initially to schools in China. Its the first commercial e-learning initiative from Eton (though not the first use of e-learning by the college).The first EtonX course will be a blended learning model, meaning it will consist of 12-15 hours of one-to-one e-learning live tuition and 12-15 hours of on-the-ground teaching in China per term, says Simon Walsh, EtonX CEO, plus someadditional online interaction elements. Teachingdelivered via the course will be conductedby tutors trained by Eton, not by existing Eton College teachers.The core thing about this product is it is a genuine homegrown Eton product. The editorial control sits with Eton, the content is designed by teachers in Eton. And if we are working with teachers on the ground to help deliver this course Eton teachers go out to China and train the delivery partners face to face, as well as maintaining an online training system with them, says Walsh.EtonX is not a MOOC (so this is not Etons EdX). The intention is for EtonXto remain relatively small scale in terms of reach. Its also not free; fees are charged of 700 (6,900CNY) per semester. The idea is for the course to slot into Chinese school timetables asafter school option that parents can pay for.Walsh said EtonX is starting withChina as it sees a gap in the market there for Eton style education  and specifically the soft skills the initial leadership course will be teaching given thelocal focus on teaching viarote learning.Theres absolutely plans to expand this to other territories and other courses. The reason we have started in China is that this particular course is particularly valuable for students who are going through the Chinese education system where the focus is on knowledge and rote learning. This leadership course supplements that very well, he says.The return on education in China is the greatest, if you like. If we were to deliver this course in other territories where the school system isnt quite so rigid it probably wouldnt get as much return on education for the students.The initialEtonX course, which will launch this September with fewer than adozen schools (and likely less than 1,000 students), is called the Modern Leadership Programme  and will be focused on teaching collaboration and communication skills.Other courses planned for the future may include subjects such as entrepreneurship, and may be purely delivered via e-learning, but Walsh addsit wouldnt be credible to deliver a course in leadership without a real world component.