A class action data privacy lawsuit thats being brought against Facebook in Europe  for participation in the NSAs PRISM dragnetsurveillance program, among other alleged data protection violations gets its first preparatory court hearing today in Viennas Regional Court.The suitwas originally filed in Viennas Commercial Court but that court rejected it and referred it on to the regional court.The class actionwas initiated byEurope vs Facebook privacy campaigner and lawyer, Max Schrems,who hasbeenpricking Facebooks data protectionconscious for years  including forcing the social network to offer a global user vote on proposed policy changes back in 2012.Europe vs Facebooks latestlegal initiativestartedlast year, in August,with an invitation for participants to join in the civil action. The suit quickly attracted 25,000 sign ups, with a further 50,000 registered to assign their claims if thesuit ended up being ableto accommodate greater numbers.The lawsuittargets the followingunlawful acts on the part of Facebook, as the group sees it:Legal costs are being borneby Austrian law firm Roland ProzessFinanz AG which will neta fifth (20%) of any winnings,as the legal funding provider, should the action prevail.Damages have been set intentionally low  at500 per user. Schremsis the suits primary plaintiff but has specified he will not personally be receiving any damages should the actionprevail.(Technically the suit is not a class action, since there is nolaw on class actions in Austria, but the groupslawyers came up withthe idea ofgrouping claims by assigning them to one person who can sue on behalf of everyone else. The single plaintiff  in this case, Schrems  then later redistributes anydamages to everyone else.)Europe vs Facebook said todays hearing willcoverprocedural objections to the lawsuits jurisdiction, with Facebook set to argue that theVienna court is not competent under European procedural laws to deal with the suit.Schrems couches this as a typical delay tactic. This is a typical strategy, because most consumers will run out of time and money. This case is luckily backed by a procedure financing company, so the delay tactics will hardly work in the end, he said in a statement.Europe vs Facebook notes in an FAQ on the suit thatEU law allows consumers tosue businesses at the relevant court of their home country.It notes:We are suing Facebook Ireland, located in Dublin. Within the European Union all member states have to fully enforce court rulings from any other member state. A ruling from Austria has therefore the same effect as a ruling from Ireland. The fact that Facebook is a US company is irrelevant, because all users outside of the US and Canada got a contract with Facebook Ireland. These are more than 80% of all worldwide Facebook users.Europe vs Facebook said it is not expecting the court to deliver a decision on Facebooks objections during todays oral hearing, but rather in a later written decision. This decision is then subject to possible appeals by both sides. The final decision on Facebooks objections will therefore be delivered at a later stage. Only in a next step the court will deal with the actual content of the class action  numerous alleged privacy violations by Facebook, it adds.A Facebook spokesman declined to comment on the ongoing legal action when contacted by TechCrunch.The civil suittargets Facebook Ireland, the social networksIrish subsidiary and thelocation of itsEuropean headquarters. The Irish Data Protection Commission has previously auditedFacebooks practicesback in 2011 and 2012 and at the latter time declared itself generally satisfied the companyhad implemented recommendations (such as turning off a facial recognition tagging feature in Europe) to comply with regional data protection requirements. Albeit Facebooks privacy policies have evolved since then. And revelations about U.S. government surveillance programs only emerged in 2013.Add to that,earlier this yeara report into Facebooks revisedprivacy policy  commissioned by Belgiums data protection authority  asserted itviolates European consumer protection law in a number of ways, including failure to secure valid consent from users to theprocessing of their data.Responding to the Belgianreportat the time a Facebook spokesman said the company is confident its updated terms and policies comply with applicable laws.