Twitter and Medium co-founder Ev Williams was interviewed this morning by legendary journalist Walter Isaacson at Fortunes Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen. Isaacson didnt hold any punches when it came to asking about Twitters future, either.Isaacson started off by asking what, exactly, Twitter is looking for in a new CEO. Said Williams: Anexceptional leaderwho can make things happen.Asked if that person should be more versed in product or in driving revenue, Williams answered, I dont think revenue is the right way to say it. [This person primarily needs]to see the potential of the platform and[thats]more strategy than product per se. There are lots of amazing product people in Twitter today. Its potential is vast. Thechallenge is deciding whatto focus onand aligning the organization toward that purpose.Asked why Twitter felt there was the need to change out management right now, Williams stuck to what the company has statedpreviously, saying it was former CEO Dick Costolos decision. We were optimistic about where we were going, but Dick decided now is the time to step down for his personal choices,as well,he said, if he was going to step down, now seemed like the right time to do it.Isaacson also brought up the question of the incomingCEO facing too many ex-Twitter CEOs on its board. How big a problem is that, he asked. Williams said he didnt think the companys board composition would be a deciding factor in any candidates choice but that,  If the CEO would prefer oneless [former] CEO, Id be happy to [step down].Naturally, Isaacson also asked Williams what he saw as the strategic vision of the company, given that Twitter has been famously confusing on this point. Williams said he didnt think it was his place to define the companys vision, but, he continued on, I think Twitter is primarily a news system. From early on, we didnt know what it was: asocialnetwork, microblogging was a thing a lot of people called it. In 2009, we made the distinction internally and the way we started talking about it was as a real-time information network. Since then, [there have been] many applications of that [including] personal components and public components.What is news? Twitter excels at that.Isaacson quickly disagreed, though, noting that earlier this morning, hed turned to the network to glean more information about a landmark deal reached earlier today on Irans nuclear program.I went to Twitter, and it didnt satisfy me, he told Williams.Williams said that guaranteed, Twitter has all the information youre looking for, so a big topic of conversation [within the company], and what were building into Twitter, arebetter ways to organize that information.Evans added, I agree that it could be way better, but both the infrastructure and data is available. He continued: Its not an easy task to make it easier to use, but that speaks to the potential that Twitter has before it.Couldnt  or perhaps shouldnt  third parties help toward that end, Isaacson suggested, seeminglyreferringto Twitters checkered history with third-party developers, who it has at times seemed to welcome into the fold, only to later cut off.Said Williams (in an answer certain to upset some of those same third-party developers): Yes. Wehad an API really early and we didnt have a platformand people conflated those things and people built apps or clients for Twitter or thingsthat were ostensibly on top of Twitter. But it wasnt a well-designed platform and it didntcreatea win for developers or users or the company. It was astrategic error that we had to wind down, and the company [received]a lot of critiques for that. But the story that [third-party developers drove]all this growth and innovation for Twitter was completely overblown.Unfortunately, Williams declined to share Twitters roadmap with Isaacson, saying there are new products and new sources of revenue coming, but quickly added, jokingly, Ive already said too much.He was just about to jump off stage, in fact, whenFortune writer Erin Griffith (who was seated in the audience) brought up a fake Bloomberg storycirculated this morning, one reporting thatTwitter is working closely with bankers after receiving an offer to be bought out for $31 billion.Though the story was a hoax, Griffith asked, would Twitter be better off under an umbrella company?No, not at this time, said Williams, saying he couldnt expound too much on his views owing to legal restrictions. There is incredible potential at Twitter and blah blah blah, the board will do what its supposed to do, he said to chuckles from attendees.