Consumers may have been slow to adopt smart home technology, but thats not the case for Barbie. At the recent New York Toy Fair, Mattel unveiled a newly upgraded  and now tech-enabled  Dreamhouse for its iconic doll. The house lets kids control its various elements  from the lights to the elevator tootherappliances  andeven the music!  using voice commands.The $299 (yikes!) play house for Barbie and her friends is the latest addition to the Hello Barbie line of products. Like the somewhat controversial Internet-connected doll, which privacy advocates oncedubbed creepy and eavesdropping,the Hello Barbie Dreamhouse is also Wi-Fi connected. Developed in partnership with ToyTalk, the Dreamhouseuses the startups voice recognition technology, like the Hello Barbie doll itself.Similar to voice assistants likeSiri or Amazon Alexa,the house responds to kids voice commands in order to take actions, like turning on lights that can be customized with various color schemes, or turning on the shower when its time for Barbie to get ready for school.To interact with the house,kids say things like Hello Dreamhouse, bring the elevator down,Hello Dreamhouse, turn the bedroom lights on or Hello Dreamhouse, turn the bedroom lights blue.The house chimes brightly to indicate that its listening, then again when it responds to the request.Image credits: ToylandThe commands dont necessarily have to be about taking explicit actions, however. As demoed by Mattel at the Toy Fair, the house also responded to broader commands,like its time for school by answering in Barbies voice.Wed better get going!, the house answers, showers on! The sound of running water is then heard and the shower lights up. Or, when asked to make pancakes for breakfast, the house turns on Barbies stove.The Hello Barbie Dreamhouse also comes with three pre-set modes, hangout mode, dance party mode, and fun house mode. Each mode gives kids a different lighting and music scheme and a different dialog in response to their play. For example, in party mode, the lights flash, the chandelier spins, music blasts, and the stairs convert themselves into a slide.A fourth mode is enabled by way ofthe Hello Dreamhouse mobile app, which lets kids customize their own lighting and sound scheme  not entirely unlike the mobile apps that work with smart home devices today  like Philips Hue smart bulbs, perhaps.In addition, when Barbiesteps into any room, the house responds thanks to embedded floor switches. The room then comes to life, as lamps turn on or the fireplace roars, for example.Its truly a good time to be a kid.However, if youre unwilling to cough up $300 for the ultimate party mansion, Barbie has another high-tech toy thats a little less steeply priced. The Star Light Adventure RC Hoverboard is a small drone that Barbie can actually ride. Its $60 and, like the Dreamhouse, will launch this fall.(h/t, image credits: Toyland; video: Chip Chick; Growingyourbaby)