The startup gold rush of the last ten years is over. Sorry. Those hordes of ambitious entrepreneurs still stampeding to the Bay Area in the hopes of building their Minimum Viable Product, getting into Y Combinator, and growing their app into the Next Big Thingtheyre already too late. That era is behind us. It was a good run, even a legendary one, but it is over. Time for the new new thing.Does that sound premature and apocalyptic? Maybe not. Over the last few months a slew of smart people have been sounding warning signals, identifying the half-dozen consonant factors bringing this epoch to an end:YES. Cannot believe how many VCs suddenly say they aren't taking meetings or doing deals. Ridiculous!  https://t.co/vc5guR9G3Y Michelle Tandler (@michelletandler) February 24, 2016So should we all close up shop and go home? Of course not. That would be crazy. We have never lived in a more technologically exciting time. Were developing amazing new ways to steal data. Were building functional bipedal robots. Were gene-editing T-cells to fight cancer. Look at the MIT Technology Reviews 10 Breakthrough Technologies For 2016.(Granted, Moores Law is in trouble, but it takes time for the uses of exponentially greater computing power to filter out into other fields; it often happens much later, via unpredictable emergent properties. Even if and when Moores Law grinds to a halt, it wont much affect our overall rate of technological progress for years to come.)Its not that all startups are doomed. This is a matter of degree and proportion, not an absolute. As the pendulum swings back to larger organizations, they will take over a noticeably greater share of innovation  and innovative markets  than we have seen over the last decade. Were witnessing that already with deep learning (Facebook, Google) and self-driving cars (Alphabet, Tesla.)Startups still have their advantages: clarity and purity of vision, instant decisionmaking, the ability to move fast and pivot on a dime. Im sure occasional startups will still emerge from left field to conquer the world. But for the foreseeable future, as the odds against them get longer, and the competition fiercer, it will happen less and less.Again, were seeing that already. In 2011, Y Combinators poster-child alumni were  already  AirBNB, Dropbox, and Stripe. Can you think of any Y Combinator companies from the last five years as well-positioned today as those Big Three were then? Maybe Instacart, if their unit economics work. Thats it.Meanwhile, as the Lessins and Malik argue, the big tech dinosaurs, rather than graciously dying out, have evolved defense mechanisms against those vicious little startup mammalsand they have their advantages too. Unlimited resources. Metcalfes Law. Economies of scale.Whats more, as software eats the world, one side effect is that rewards accrue nonlinearly to those with the best software. This in turn leads to power-law outcomes; a few big winnersand a whole lot of losers.So whats a poor startup to do, if we are transitioning into a new bleak world where the gold mines run dry?