Everwise, a New York-based company whose online serviceconnects executives willing to volunteer their time with people looking for mentorshipfrom new entrepreneurs, to budding sports coaches, to people looking to rise through the ranks of Fortune 500 companies  is taking the wraps off thebigger business that its been quietly building over the the past year. Now, the three-year-old, 40-person outfit has become whatits calling an integrated platform for talent development.The cornerstone of the technology has long workedby plugging data from a usersLinkedIn profileand from a personalized questionnaire that he or she answersinto an algorithm that essentially points that person to amore experiencedexecutive from another company.But Everwisehas thrown a number of new bells and whistles into the mix. For example, auseris still assigned a mentor, but he or she is also provided with curated content from around the web based on the recommendations that Everwise mentors have made in the past, including which books to read and TED talks to watch. Customerscan also be included in peer groups suited to their needs.Users can establish development goals  or import them from their companys HR system after a performance review  and track their progress against them.Assessments  including via the famed Myers-Briggs indicator and Strengthsfinders program  are also incorporated into the platform so users can ostensibly gain a deeper understanding of their own strengths and weaknesses.Theres a human element, too, in the form an experience manager, whose responsibility it is to help participants identify and prioritize their goals. We think people are accountable to people, not to software, says cofounder and CEO Mike Bergelson.As for some of the companys metrics, Bergelson isnt being overly specific.He says thousands of mentors from 70 countries and 130 industries are now volunteering to spend 10 hours over six months helping thousands of Everwise protgs. (Asked whats in it for the mentors, Bergelson says most are either looking to give back or pay it forward, not as a way to recruit or drum up consulting work.)He also tells us that 100 companies are providing the service to employees. Many of those customers are paying $150 a month per employee. (Thats one-tenth the cost of executive coaching, insists Bergelson.) But Everwise also now has several dozen companies  including the publicly traded biotechnology company Gilead Sciences and Richard Bransons foundation Virgin Unite  licensing its software so they can run it themselves.Everwiseisnt yet profitable, but investors apparently like what they see. Along with its expanded platform, Everwise is today announcing a previously undisclosed $8 million in Series A funding from Canvas Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Webb Investment Network. (The money was raised in December of last year.)Part of that money is being used to add even more features to the platform, says Bergelson.Itsalso helping the company to expand globally.The India-based telecommunications giant Tata Communications is already one of its customers; Everwise,which is also doing work in Asia and Western Europe, will also be launching in Australia in January.