Weve been documentingEvernotesdecline in the last several months, andtoday comes two more waves of news that speak both to how the company continues to be in turmoil, but is also trying to rebuild itself. TechCrunch has learned that Dave Engberg, the companys founding CTO, is leaving the company in May.The news comes at the same time thatCEO Chris ONeill  himself a relatively new appointment  announcedseveralnew execs. They include new heads of product, marketing, brand, design and China. The company lost its COO last year.Evernote once a billion-dollar unicorn with $205 million in funding, but more recently marked down by investors  has lost focus, faced a wave of exec departures and a string of unprofitable product closures that included Evernotes e-commerce effort, most of theSkitchapps, and its Food app.Engberg has been there through the good and the ugly. He was part of the team that originallybuilt the first Evernote app in 2007 (he notes he built it with a few friends in his LinkedIn profile).And its hard to underestimate hisinvolvement with the startup. Hiscurrent responsibilities include the groups runningPlatform Engineering, Operations, IT, Security, and R&D.He also built the infrastructure and teams that handle Support, Developer Relations, and Analytics.Alongside this blow are some sigs of how Evernote is trying to rebuild its company.Erik Wrobelis coming on to lead product management. He was most recently VP of Product at VMware, where Evernote says he started the cloud management product line. He replaces Philip Constantinou, who left in August last year and is now CPO at Navdy.Andrew Malcolmhas takenover marketing, and hes actually already been at the company quietly for 100 days, ONeill notes. He is a Skype and Silver Lake alum. Alongside him,Azmat Aliis joining as head of brand, having cut his teeth at places like HP. TheyreplaceAndrew Sinkov, who left in December 2015 and covered both roles.Ben McCormackwas appointednew head of technical operations, where he will be putting a bigger emphasis on cloud computing. Combined with Wrobels experience, it looks like Evernote is making some moves to go deeper into enterprise software.Nate Fortin, who has worked atMotorola, is heading up Evernotes design team. Gabe Campodonico, who had been head of design for product, is still at the company but now in a different role, as UI designer and creative director. Other design moves at Evernote include Adam Glynn-Finnegan, who was the lead designer on brand and senior product designer, who is now at Airbnb; andJoshua Taylor, who also departed last year.Finally,Michelle Wagnerjoins as head of people operations.Updated detailsof CTO departure, other staff moves.