Evernote is a company very much in transition, and thats highlighted by the exit of couple of notable vice presidents at the company.Vice President of Partnerships Alex Pachikov, a nine-year veteran at the company, is moving to pastures new come January, multiple sources told TechCrunch, whileVice President of Brand Andrew Sinkov has justdeparted following aneight year tenure, as his LinkedIn profile shows.These exitscome five months after CEO and co-founder Phil Libin shifted to Executive Chairmanfollowing the appointment of ex-Googler Chris ONeill tothe CEO hot seat. (Libin also took a role asManaging Director atGeneral Catalyst Partners, emphasizing his removal from day-to-day management at the company.) Then, last month,we reported that COO Linda Kozlowski is leaving at the end of 2015.Neither Evernote nor Pachikov responded to our requests for comment.This year has been a tumultuous one for Evernote. In addition to the leadership change, the company restructuring its staffing closing three international offices and letting 47 people go  and killed off its Evernote Food, Skitch, Clearly and Pebble Watch apps. (Skitch for Mac was spared the ax, though.) Evernote said it will instead increase focus on its core app.There are also more changes inPachikovs team, which one source told us has been decimated by a spate of staff moving on. In particular, key personnel Tammy Sun, Director of Partnerships, andPearl Woon-Tai,Senior Director of Partnerships, have followed their boss Pachikov in making an exit. Stanford graduate Woon-Tai has moved over to Facebook, where she is working on mobile business partnerships.Staff leaving isnt necessary a sign of impending doom. While Evernotes business has been closely scrutinized and accused of becoming stagnant, a change in the long-term management structure very often leads to the departures of long-serving employees. Evernote CEO ONeill will need to rebuild some important company pillars, but, in some ways, starting fresh with new personnel might not be such a bad thing. Time will tell  2016 is shaping up to be an important year for Evernote.