Two former Rocket Internet executives are out to beat Foodpanda, the food delivery startup backed by the German incubator-cum-investor, at its own game  and theyve raised $800,000 toget to it.Hong Kong-based Caterspot was founded in January of this year by Camilo Paredes (its CEO andformer MDofFoodpanda in Latin America),Amanda Ernst (its CPO and ex-COO of Hellofood Latin America) andAndrew Ng (its COO and formerly with HSBC Australia). This funding round, which was led byTriplestar Capital with input fromSwiss Founders Fund, is aimed at building out its operations in Hong Kong and Singapore, its two markets right now.Rocket Internet has essentially bought itself a monopoly on food delivery in many parts of the world. Last year, it bought equity in Delivery Hero and swallowed upno fewer than nine other startups. It hasnt stopped there, shipping out and bringingin new businesses since then to consolidate its empire. Despite that, Caterspots founding trio see some gaps that can be attacked in Asia.Principally, Caterspot is focused on the B2B, or business customers, rather than serving consumers asHellofood, Foodpanda and others do.With some 150 caters on its platform, and 50 more joining imminently, Paredes explained to TechCrunch that the company is scaling carefully to build loyalty among users and a sustainable model.80 percent of our sales come from corporates, and were crafting our platform to make it very easy for secretaries, offices managers, receptionist, HR, etc to order food for their teams. After speaking to many companies, we see there are a lot of pain points and no solution that meets their needs so far, including platforms like Foodpandas corporate accounts, he said.Foodpanda does offer a business service, which is rolling out across Asia. At the launch in November 2015,Foodpanda co-founder and CEO Ralf Wenzel told us that theres a huge opportunity in Asia, withthe typical order size of businesses farhigher than consumers, and plenty of repeat business. Caterspot CEO Paredes sees the same potential.We never take on orders that are less than 10 people and so far weve realized that once a secretary or office manager discovers our platform, they love being able to have many options and information at their fingertips. Were very pleased with our low churn rates, he told us.It isnt just about typical restaurants coming online. Caterspot includes some quirky options, likea popup barwhich might be suitable for events or a company do.On the business side of things, we know that food ordering is challenging. The unit economics are stacked against many businesses ever pulling in a profit, while the customer experienceis hugelydependent on third-parties who can controlthe quality of the final product and delivery time.Paredes didnt say if the business is close to unit profitability (the buzzword of 2016 for delivery companies), but he believesthat healthy commissions and keeping costs low will help Caterspot become profitable in each city we launch within a reasonable amount of time.On the subject of launches, he said that the company is locking down its business model and blueprint in Hong Kong and Singapore  two bustling and Westernized cities in Asia before moving into newlocations.Next year, users will definitely be able to use CaterSpot in several major markets across Asia and Australia, Paredes said. We plan to raise [funding] again this year to help fuel our expansion.