To their colleagues, Adam Kalamchi and Kane Hsieh seemeda little crazy when they left RRE Ventures last year to start a bicyclecompany. Nine months and $1.5 million later, theyre officially launching Brilliant Bicycle Co. to sellreasonably priced bikes to people who care more about simplicity and color than specs and ounces.The $1.5 million in seed funding was co-led by four general partners at RRE. Brand Foundry Ventures, Great Oaks VC, Aspiration Growth, and angels including Bonobos founder Andy DunnandDogVacay CFOBryan Wolffparticipated.Brilliants first bike, the Astor, comes in three speeds, three sizes and six colors. It starts at $299, ships for free to New York in 24 hours (and the rest of the country within a week), and can be assembled in under an hour (depending on how handy you are).The assembly process is meant to be moreidiot-proof than Ikea  all necessary tools are included, each part is labeled clearly, and an instruction manual with videos on Brilliants site makes it difficult to screw up.A bike is a simple product. There are people whoare hobbyists and enthusiasts who really want to talk about specs, but there should also be an easy option for a normal person who just wants to ride to the park and has a budget in mind, says Kalamchi.Kalamchi and Hsieh are approachingthe bike industry with a startup mentality. By cutting out unnecessary parts on their bikes, optimizing production and shipping, and removing the middleman, Brilliant is sellinga bikeat half the cost of comparable productson the market.When you go to a bike shop, youre implicitly paying for things that youre not totally aware of  storage, because that bike has been there for six months, choice, because there are 100 models to choose from, assembly, and usually a year or two of included service, says Kalamchi.And bike shops are intimidating to the casualrider.Its all very dudely, Hsieh says, pointing out the Instagram profiles for a few leading bike brands, which are filled with pictures of high-end racing bikes ridden by middle-aged, spandex-clad men.For people who want to own a bike, but not shape their lives around biking, the options are limited. And for the U.S. consumers who currently spend over $2 billion per yearon used bikes, Kalamchi and Hsieh are betting that Brilliants entry-level bikes will be a more appealingoption.Brilliant will be rolling out additional bike models, accessories, and services over the next year. Kalamchi tells me theyve already startedexperimenting with a concierge service in San Francisco and New York  the geek squad for bikes, as hecalls it.Our goal is truly to get more people riding  we want to offer abike at a margin that keeps us sustainable, but also keeps the base entry level price as affordable as possible, Kalamchi says.