Holding individual politicians to account in an age of big data should be more thanpossible. It should be trivially easy. The basic challenge issurfacing salient detailsamid ongoing noise  which is exactly wheretechnology tools can shine.Robustlocal news media, which traditionally played the scrutinizing role,has undoubtedly beenweakened by the Internet. Which is why Solomon Kahn, who runs Paperless Posts data teamduring the day, is building (andcrowdfunding)a data visualization toolforU.S.political campaign contributions  to make it easier to follow the money toidentify anycorrupting influences on federal politicians.Hewants it tobe a tool forjournalists, as well as a way for the U.S. public to more easilyunderstandtheir politicalrepresentatives corporate/union interests. Hes aiming for each politician tracked by the tool to have an overview landing page where salient details about how they finance their political campaign aresurfaced. Users will be able to submit any notabledetails they discover so hes also looking to foster and host crowdsourced reportage on the platform. Very cool.The tool, which is still in development at this point (and which Kahn plans to open source), offers an overview ofproportional donations flowing to an individual politicianby industry sector over time, as well as letting usersdrill down to inspect specificdonations  to make it easier to identifythings like patterns of donations coming from employees of a single company. All of whichcan then be cross-referenced with a politicians voting record.I was looking for a side project where I could use my data skills to do something good for the world. I thought that money in politics was a big problem, and also an area with a lot of data, but not a lot of visibility by the public or reporters, as to what was really going on. I figured I would take a shot at building something, and it turned out much better than I expected! says Kahn, explaining the genesis of the project.Thetool, which hes called Explore Campaign Finance, uses a cleaned up form of the data outputted by the Federal Election Commission, fromanorganization called OpenSecrets. It has campaign contribution data on more than24,000 federal politicians overthe past 25 years.People have already built some great tools to look at campaign finance data, even though they arent as full featured as this. The programming frameworks to make a project like this havent been around for so long, and there arent that many people who know them. Additionally, if an organization wanted to build a project like this, it would be pretty expensive, and although people are donating money to fight against money in politics, its at a different scale than the people who are donating massive amounts of money to politicians, he adds.No single person or media organization could possibly investigate the funding sources of 24,000 federal politicians, but with the help of the internet, we might actually be able to hold every single politician accountable for how they raise money.At the time of writing Kahn has almost reached the $15,000 fundraising goal on his Kickstartercampaign. Hes aiming to use the money to pay for the servers to run the tool and for outreach to journalists to get them using the tool as a reporting aid.More details in his explainer video below.