Whenever a new social network or online community springs up, it seems pretty inevitable that brands will eventually try to build a presence there. Naturally, this can cause lots of handwringing and eye-rolling  thats why emphatically ad-free social networks like Ello attract a lot of interest, but also seem rather quixotic.So I was gladto get an update on what EyeEm is doing with Missions, a product where moneymaking and community-building seem to actually fit together. Perhaps thats because, as noted elsewhere, EyeEm Missions can actually help its photographers make money, rather than just monetize their eyeballs and clicks.Basically, Missions are a way for brands to crowdsource photos from the EyeEm community. For example, Mercedes Benz recently ran a Mission around the theme of Elegance Everywhere, while Ubers Mission asked locals to capture their cities hidden gems. (Weve previously written about Missions from Foursquare and the Huffington Post  which, like TechCrunch, is owned by AOL.)Snke Bullerdiek, EyeEms vice president of business development, told me that the company ran its first Mission in 2013, but didnt start pursuing the programmore seriously until last year. Since then, it has run more than 100 Missions, with 370,000 photos submitted by 220,000 contributors. Or if you want to focus ona typical Mission, Bullerdiek said they see 3,500 submissions from 2,000 contributors on average.Things are growing more quickly, he added, since Missions became a prominentpart of EyeEms navigation. (If youve got the app, its right there in the bottom bar, between the camera and the Me button.)Beyond the numbers, whats impressive is the quality of the photos themselves. Not only do they look great (at least in the Missions that Bullerdiek shared), but theyre also go beyond serving asstraightforward promotional images. As you might guess from the fairly broad prompts, the winning photos tend to capture a widerange of subjects, and theyre rarely connectedto the brand sponsoring the Mission in any overt way.As for how EyeEm makes money, Bullerdiek noted that the company works closely with the brand to develop the Mission outlines, so it charges an undisclosed set up and handling fee. The brand can pay for the rights to the winning photos, with the money split 50-50 between the photographers and EyeEm. (Bullerdiek estimated that the price tagcan be anywhere between $20 and $500, depending on how the image will be used.) Andmany of the contests include winnerrewards, like Uber credits or a new camera.The camera, by the way, is being offered as part of a Mission for Getty Images titled Everyday Joy. Yep, thatsa traditional stock photography company working with EyeEm, and in fact, the two companies have also partnered to create a curated EyeEm collection thats available to Getty customers.I spoke to Tom Hind, Gettys senior director of creative content, about the partnership, which he said has resulted in some gems (to be clear, though, we spoke before the launch of the Everyday Joy Mission). As for how Getty might work with these kinds of photo communities moving forward, he said, I dont know what the future will hold. However, he added thattheres a nice synergy between the large community that EyeEm has created and the clients and curation that Getty can provide.Were very much interested in pushing at how stock imagery is perceived, Hind told me.For his part, Bullerdiek said hes hoping to get more brands on-board this year. Hes also planning to add more localization features, so that Missions can be more targeted on a specific country or region.