Humanity has been boiled down to six emotions. Today after tests in a few countries, Facebook is rolling out its augmented Like button Reactions to all users.This article has been boiled down to six emotions too.Like  Facebook designed Reactions so Liking is still as easy ever. Youll see the Like button on every post, but now if you tap and hold on it (or hover on desktop), the Like will expand to reveal the other emotions: Love, Haha, Wow, Sad, and Angry. Drag your finger across and you can select one.Now instead of a Like count, posts will display the total Reaction count, and show the icons of the most popular Reactions. This way, Facebook doesnt have to clutter the feed with individual counts of each emotion. If you do want to know the breakdown, you can tap the Reaction count and see who felt what.This design is smart because if you dont want to use Reactions, you dont have to, and there arent six buttons on every post.Love  Reactions were created after Mark Zuckerberg told his team Iwant to really make it easy for people to give other types of feedback than the Like button in News Feed according to News Feed engineering managerTom Alison. Sometimes when a friend shares a post about a tragedy or something that annoys them, it doesnt feel right to Like it, and commenting can be awkward, but you still want to express empathy.For example, if something sad happens to a friend, Liking isnt right, but adding a generic sorry comment can feel cold. By hitting the animated Sad button, you can express your condolences and solidarity. With any luck, this will encourage people to be more vulnerable on Facebook. Instead of the constant Success Theater where people only share the highlights of their lives, they might be more real with their friends.Wow  By adding Reactions, Facebook will now have a much more accurate perception of what we feel and what kind of posts resonate with each of us. It could eventually use that knowledge to better filter the News Feed to show more things that Wow us.Facebook writes if someone uses a Reaction, we will infer they want to see more of that type of post. In the beginning, it wont matter if someone likes, wows or sads a post. Over time we hope to learn how the different Reactions should be weighted differently by News Feed to do a better job of showing everyone the stories they most want to see.Eventually, if you enjoy getting your blood pumping, it could show you more posts that stir up Angry reactions. Or if youre addicted to cute cats, it could surface more Loveable pet photos.Haha  We comment Lol on so manyposts that Facebook thought there could be a simpler way. To design Reactions, it looked at the most common one-word comments and stickers used on News Feed posts, grouped them together, and found that these six emoji capture almost every way people feel across cultures.By standardizing emotions, Facebook could make it easier for people to connect across language barriers. I might know enough Spanish to read a friends post, but not how to comment with any kind of complexity. Now I can leave a Reaction, and be confident they understand what I mean.Sad Facebook seems to have blatantly copied Paths design for the expandable Like button with extraemotions, yet refused to acknowledge the fellow social network as an inspiration when I asked.Facebook has always been cavalier about poaching ideas from others, all the way back to the social networks origin at Harvard. More recently its taken to mimicking Twitters real-time and trending features, and Snapchats ephemerality and content capturing with apps like Poke and Slingshot.Sometimes theres just a Right way to design something, and its hard to build it differently once youve seen it. But tech companies cant seem to just accept the idea of influences, and no one ever wants to admit they were inspired by someone else.Angry  Theres still no Dislike button, and thats sure to piss some people off.