Likes  Dollars. Facebook wants Pages to actually earn money for the 45 million small businesses that use them. So today Facebook is upgrading Pages with a tabbed mobile layout that lets them display storefront Sections where users can Shop for products or view a list of Services the business offers. The company is also making calls to action on business Pages, such as Call Now, Send Message and Contact Us, bigger, more colorful and more prominent beneath thecover image.The Shop section will include Buy buttons powered by Facebooks partnership with Shopify so users can check out without leaving the social network. Facebook is also testing Buy buttons that link out to a business traditional website.These changes are the biggest made to Pages since 2012. They build on Facebooks recent announcement of new messaging capabilities for businesses and badges for companies that respond quickly. Todays updates could make Facebook Pages a utility, not just a presence for businesses.COO Sheryl Sandberg opened the press event for the updates at Facebooks second Menlo Park office by saying Theres nothing small about small businesses. But she explained that building a mobile commerce experience is tough and expensive, especially for small businesses. Thats why Sandberg talked about SMBs using Facebook to do mobile business easily, for free.Instead of building an entire mobile website or app, Facebook wants companiesto instead rely on their Facebook Pages. Thats why its starting to build out Sections specific to different types of businesses.Andrew Chau, the co-founder of the Boba Guys cafe, tells me he started the business online presence with a Facebook Page not a website because thats where it could get the most eyeballs. He says he tells people to Check us out on Facebook ratherthan Download our app because they arent going to do that. People dont necessarily want a whole app just for their local tea shop.The strategy is similar to WeChats platform for businesses in China. Rather than having to build an app, get people to download it, and then get them to use it, WeChat lets businesses create official accounts that users can easily follow and buy from.The first step in this direction isthe new sections,Shop and Services. Normally, businesses would have to constantly post about their products or services to make them immediately visible on their Pages. Now theyll have a prominent, dedicated section where they can sell their products and services.These sections will get their own tabs rather than burying them down the Page, which makes them easierto find especially on mobile. On the home page/landing page/main tab, Facebook will show a set of highlights from a business other tabs.This kind of cross-platform optimization would be tough for a business to do on its own, but Facebook makes it happen automatically.And if a businesss services require negotiation or deep customization, that can use a Message To Buy button that triggers an instant message conversation between the customer and business so they can hash out the details.Previously, Facebook announced that users would be able to message Pages for support, and those that responded in under five minutes 90 percent of the time would get a Very Responsive badge of honor on their Page. While this might seem like extremely tough metrics to meet, Facebook says 500,000 Pages quickly were able to earn the badge.To assist with this social customer service, Pages can compose Saved Replies that they can quickly personalize with a customers name or situation before sending them. Page admins can also respond to Wall Posts or comments with messages. This helps companies keep customer support in private, rather than becoming a public spectacle on their Pages wall that could hurt their brand.If Facebook succeeds here, it will see small and medium-sized businesses directing mobile traffic to their Pages, rather than their websites. This not only makes Facebook more useful for users, but itwill act as a gateway to getting businesses to pay for ads promoting those Pages.When I asked Facebooks Product Marketing Director for Pages Benji Shomair about this strategy, he told me Pages are free. The more businesses we have on the platform and the more value theyre able to generate from their Facebook Pagesthere could be benefits to our business more broadly. When I asked again if that meant these tools could boost ad sales, he admitted Potentially, yeah. I agree.The average boutique owner or plumber shouldnt have to learn how to build an app. Now they dont.