Jump on the party line or hear the voices of your whole family with Facebook Messengers latest feature. Rolling out globally over the next 24 hourson Android and iOS for free, users can start a group VoIP audio call from any group chat.Just tap the Phone icon, select which of the group chat members you want included and theyll all receive a Messenger call simultaneously. If you miss the initial call but its still in progress, you can tap the Phone icon in the group chat to join the call. At any time you can see whos on the call and send another ping to anyone who hasnt joined.Facebook tells me theres no limit on the number of participants, so if you think youre popular, you can try maxing it out. Youve got more than 900 million users to hit up.[Update: Now Facebook says it was wrong and that theres actually a maximum number of 12 participants on a call.Update 2: Facebook seems to be in utter disarray after F8, as now its apologizing and saying the participant limit is 50.]After being late on several launches like QR codes and an internal camera, Messenger managed to release a core communication feature before Snapchat. One cool feature I hope Messenger launches is dynamic muting or quieting of background noise of people who arent talking.Facebook began offering VoIP in 2013,fully rolled out one-on-one audio calls in April 2014 and, a year later, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Messenger already made up 10 percent of all mobile VoIP calls globally. A Messenger spokesperson tells me, There are situations where typing isnt enough and when people prefer talking to one another.While theres no group video calling yet, you can expect that to come eventually. When I asked Messengers head of product Stan Chudnovsky last year about group video when one-on-one video calling launched, he told me, Groupvideo calling is definitely a use case that a lot of our people might be interested in at some point[and]it would be a big deal if the whole [shakes hand to simulate lack of video stabilization] thing goes away.Messengers goal as of late has been to replace your phone number. Last year it started allowing all Facebook users to chat with each other even if they arent friends, though strangers pings can sometimes be hidden in the Filtered Message Requests section under Settings -> People -> Message Requests -> See Filtered Requests. (If you dont know about Filtered Requests, its worth checking out  Ive found Facebook filtering to be too aggressive and hid some messages I wanted to see.)Unlike phone numbers where you have little control once someone knows your digits, Messenger lets you easily block people, the ability to message you cant be sold and, thanks to Facebooks spam detection systems, its tough for someone to create a new Facebook account to harass you.Now, Messenger could serve as a better replacement for Skype, and even let you set up easy conference calls with people whose numbers you dont have. The more use cases Messenger can encompass, the less likely you are to stray to one of its competitors or its age-old foe: SMS.