Facebook debutedchatbots for Messenger this week to much fanfare, promising consumers a new way to interact with their favorite businesses over the companys popular messaging service. The idea is that Messenger users could simply chat with these automated software programs to do things like read the latest news from CNN, get aweather report or even go shopping. In practice, however, the bots  at least at launch failed to live up to the hype.Trying to use the bots for simple tasks  like finding out if it would rain or buying a black shirt  was frustrating, disappointing and ultimately far less efficient than simply visiting the companys website itself.Thats not to downplay the potential for bots in the long term, or the possibilities provided by bringing Facebooks large base of businesses to Messenger where they couldbetter serve customers who increasingly usemobilemessaging apps while on their smartphones.However, as the chatbots for Messenger platform launches, the bot experience leaves much to be desired.To get a good feel for Facebooks chatbots, we demoed the three Featured bots that Facebook is promoting via its Messenger platform website: CNN, shopping app Spring and weather app Poncho.Each bot had a Try it link provided, whichopensdirectly on Messenger a chat interface with the business.For starters, clicking this link  the new short URLs aimed at Facebook Page owners(in the m.me format) merely launched the chat window;there was no greeting text from the business in question. In other words, though you know that theres a bot to interact with, you dont know how to begin.Does it require a trigger word or phrase? Can you just say hi?Facebook will reportedly soon address this problem when it finalizes the rollout of Messenger Greetings, which will allow businesses to pass along a note to customers when they kick off a chat session. These greetings could instruct users how to get started using the bot.Its unclear why Facebook wouldnt have this enabled for the chatbots at launch, though. After all, this whole concept is new toso manyof todays mobile messaging users who are not old enough to remember chatting with IM bots like SmarterChild from back in their PC days.As it turns out, not all the bots operate the same way.For example, simply saying hi to CNN and Poncho generated an automated response, but Springs bot ignored me. (I had to Google to find out that the way to talk to Spring was to say go shopping to it.)Unfortunately, that was the least of my problems with using the bots.Heres a simple problem a chatbot could help me solve, I thought: Im in the market for a new shirt. I like the color black and I dont want to spend a lot. Couldnt Springs new shopping bot help point me to some nice items?I didnt expect it to succeed in helping me narrow top shirts by details like sleeve length or fabric type at this early point, but I at least believed it could pull up a few possibilities.I was wrong.After getting the shopping session started by the keyword trigger, Springs bot interface is easy enough to use. It asks you a series of questions to narrow down what youre looking for  Mens or Womens items?, Clothing, Shoes, or Accessories?, etc.  and you click on your response.After I narrowed it down to tops under $75, Spring returned five items it thought I would like.Why would I like these particular items? I dont know. Spring knows nothing about my shopping history, what style of shirt Im looking for, the color, the occasion (work or casual) or anything else.It returned three white shirts, one t-shirt, and a sweater.Uh, OK.At this point, Id like to ask the bot for more options. But how do you do that?I tried chatting with the bot, assuming at this point, anything I said would at least trigger a new help message that explains how to continue using the service.I dont like these I told it, and was met with silence.hi? I spoke into the void. Nothing happened.can you show me more?Finally, the bot answered, informing me that I could return to the options above and click them again to start the process over. Hopeful that the five items it returned were a randomized group and Id see five new shirts if I repeated things, I did just that.The bot returned the same fiveshirts.Well, maybe I need to be more specific, I thought.Please show some black shirts, I said.The bot gave me a link to its website.I know what youre thinking. Well maybe Spring didnt have any black shirts under $75? But it did! The link pointed to Womens black shirts on the Spring site, and there are more than a few from which to choose.The thing is, it just would have been easier to visit Springs website directly, rather than dancing through this chatty interface.Ponchos snarky weather bot was even worse. Though I got it talking with a simple hi, its weather reports failed to deliver even the most basic information, like when it would rain.After getting my location and asking if it could message me daily weather reports (NOPE!, I said), it told me I could still chat with it for other information, specifically:Feel free to ask me if its going to rain, if you need sunglasses or a jacket, or just say hello from time to time!So I asked: is it going to rain?Poncho answered: Wet. Warm. Yuck.Im sorry, but what.?Is that supposed to be a real answer?I tried to get Poncho to clarify  did wet mean rain was coming, then?Sorry, youre going to have to say that again in Cat. Meow?, it said.Youve got to be kidding me.When will it rain?, I asked. It didnt understand.What time will it rain?, I tried again. No go.Whats the percentage chance of rain?, I attempted awkwardly.Wet. Warm. Yuck, the bot repeated.I threw my phone across the room.No thanks.Of the three Featured bots, CNNs did better, but still had some issues. It responded to hi as well, thankfully, as I still have no clue what youre supposed to say to these things.It then directs you to pick the news you want to hear: Top Stories, Stories for you or Ask CNN.Top Stories is a curated selection of the top news, and can offer you a summary or a link to the CNN site to read further. The summary feature is a bit reminiscent of Quartzs standalone news messaging app, and is a good way to get briefed on the most important aspects to the days news.Ask CNN lets you specify a topic youd like to read about, while Stories for you returns suggestions based on what youve been reading. (Presumably, this will improve over time.)While CNNs bot performed these tasks fairly well, it still failed in other areas. For example, because its been programmed to look for topics by keyword, apparently, it didnt seem to grasp the nuance of a query asking for U.S. news.Its plausible that someone might think to ask for U.S. news via this bot, in order to get a filtered selection of the days top news. However, CNNs bot only seemed to look for the word U.S. in the headline when returning its suggestions. Instead of top stories, the bot returned exactly two articles:CNNs U.S. mobsters heirs to Cuba: You owe us  so pay up and a CNN Money video entitled Ken Burns: Trump divides us. Sanders does too.Not only are these not what one would consider the top U.S. stories, the secondwas returned because it had the word us in the headline.Maybe I didnt word it correctly?Oddly enough, asking just for us news? returned a different set of (now three) stories with the word us in the headline, including an op-ed called What Easter teaches us about heaven.Similarly, requests for the latest news stumbled  again, only looking for the keyword in the headline.This was not helpful at all.While these tests were brief, it goes to show that Messengers chatbots are still a long way from fulfilling their potential to be a useful way to interact with businesses and brands through chat.These botsclearly need to be able to interactwith their human customers more conversationally, and have a better understanding of what people are actually saying to them. They need to have more functionality  like the ability to pull up specific items when shopping  and they need to be better programmed from the start.Some bots are better than others, of course.The Guardiangave differentchatbots a dry run and hadsimilarly mixed results. Simple bots like The WSJ and CNNs news bots didbetter, while Operators shopping bot  which claims to respond toemoji queries  didnt reallywork. Meanwhile, Sequel Stories choose your own adventure-style story bot was more fun, their report found.The question for Facebooks business users is whether or not its worth the time and effort to build one of these bots, or if the chatbot phase will end up being a fad.For now, its still entirely unproven that customers will want to chat withbots  especially when they work so poorly. The experience, if not improved in short order, could become the mobile equivalent of punching your way through a businesss automated customer service hotline.At the end of the day, people may want to chat with a person, not a machine,when trying to get customer service.They maythink that using the companyswebsite or native app is easier and faster than trying to get the bot to respond properly, so theysimply ignore the bots.And if people try bots and fail to find them useful right out of the gate, theres a good chance businesses wont get a second chanceto win back those same customersin the future.SIGH I wrote to Springs chatbot, ending my experience today.The bot said it got my note and would be back with me shortly. (Spring says its bots are partly human-powered. Maybe my message was being sent to staff?, I wondered.)Over an hour later, Springasked me if I wanted to keep shopping.Not via bot, I dont think.