Facebookthis afternoon confirmedthat it will now support animated GIFs in the Facebook News Feed. Not everyone will see the added functionality immediately, we understand, as the updateis still rolling out. The move represents a significant change in directionfor Facebook, whichhas historically made a consciousdecision to avoid supporting GIFs, claiming that doing so would make itsNews Feed too chaotic.Instead of allowing GIFs, Facebooks focus to date has been on video. The company introduced support for auto-playing videos in late 2013, but despite bringing a more lively, animated feel to the News Feed, the movedid not lead Facebook to rolling out support for GIFs. Neither did the introduction of support for GIFs on Twitter last summer  a change that some felt might force Facebooks hand in the matter.Though Facebook had built in support for GIFs for quite some time, the company has long felt that GIFs could lead to the site being cluttered with low-quality memes, as wepreviously reported.That decision, however, has been reversed today.To trythe new feature, Facebook users can paste a link to a GIF hosted on an external website like Giphy, Imgur, Tumblr, or elsewhere, into their status update box and thenpublish. The GIF will be animated inline after you post. You cant currently upload GIFs directly, however, and see the same results.GIFs will auto-play on Facebook in line with your current video autoplay settings. If you choose to disable autoplay in your settings, you can tap or click a GIF (as indicated by GIF in a white circle on the image) to play it instead.Before today, the only option for sharing GIFs on Facebook was a workaround provided by Giphy, but this was not considered official Facebook support. Todays update means that users will be able to share GIFs they find anywhere on the web toFacebook, not only from a single source.Weve tested the functionality on Facebook brand pages,and found that the abovesteps dont work.That implies that Facebook is either rolling out the feature to personal profiles first, or it has made the decision to restrictthe functionality from being used by brands period. (Update: Facebook confirms that GIFs will not be available on Pages or for use in Facebook ads. Notes the company, While Pages cannot currently post GIFs, we are exploring ways to enable this in the future.)We also found that GIFs were automatically animatedin the Facebook native mobile application, but noton the mobile website. Facebook told usit intends to support GIFs on the web and in its mobile apps.Weve also asked Facebook to provide further technical details surrounding its GIF support, including its plans for mobile support, Pages support, and more. Well update when the company responds. In the meantime, a company spokesperson provided the following statement:Were rolling out support for animated GIFs in News Feed. This is so you can share more fun, expressive things with your friends on Facebook.Updated 5/31/15: Facebook provided additional information on its plans to support GIFs on mobile, web and onPages. The post has been edited to include the new details.