Facebook appears to have beenblocked in Vietnam as a part of a government-imposed crackdown on social media, amidpublicprotestsover an environmental disaster attributed to toxic discharges froma steel complex built by Taiwans Formosa Plastics. Dissidents are blaming wastewater from the steel plant for a mass fish death at aquatic farms and in waters off the countrys central provinces. Citizens have been using Facebook to organize rallies, which is likely the cause of the shutdown.Instagram also appears to have beenaffected, according to reports.In addition to helping protesters organize, social media hasbeen used to share photos of people at rallies, holding up handwritten signs that read I choose fish."I Choose Fish" #Vietnam #Saigon #VietnamProtest pic.twitter.com/ej8Hpb4Wsq Dan Vineberg (@danvineberg) May 1, 2016 A lonely man? No, a strong man!#Sitin #protest #walkingstreet #15May16 #Ichoosefish #Toichonca #WeAreOne pic.twitter.com/Y9tz9OwcPC Anh Ch (@AnhChiVN) May 16, 2016#Vietnamprotest for environment on #BBCnews https://t.co/nTRjMadYVo Quoc Binh (@quocbinh8x) May 16, 2016Citizens are angry both at the steel company and their governments inaction. Formosa had denied wrongdoing in the matter, and theDeputy Minister of the Environment and Natural Resources said the fish deaths had been caused either by a toxic algae bloom or industrial waste. He also denied that Formosa was to blame.Police arrested up to 300 protesters inHo Chi Minh Citys Paris Square, andmany injuries were sustained during that process.The UNs High Commissioner on Human Rights recentlyreferenced these protests in apress release, saying: We are concerned about the increasing levels of violence perpetrated against Vietnamese protesters expressing their anger over the mysterious mass deaths of fish along the countrys central coast.Protesters tried to rally for the third timeon Sunday, but security inHanoi and Ho Chi Minh City prevented major rallies taking place, Reuters reports.The fish kill began in April, and a government investigationis still underway.According to the Israeli proxy service Hola, whose software would be used to route around internet censorship like this (and which is capitalizing on this situation by way of press releases), both Facebook and the photo-sharing app Instagram were blocked on Sunday.The company says it experienced a significant surge in downloads following the Facebook blockade.Though security forces have been preventing protesters from gathering in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, many citizens have been using Facebook to exchange information and organize rallies, thus the government is presumed to have shut the website down, the company wrote on its blog.Weve confirmed via app store optimization firm Sensor Tower that mobile VPN applications in the country alsosaw a huge boost as users there are trying to circumvent the block. (See above chart).This pattern is similar to when WhatsApp was blocked in Brazil, and is a fairly good indication that a Facebook blockage was, indeed, in effect.As another source of confirmation of sorts, theHead of PR & Comms for Opera & Asiapostedon Twitter that their company saw a surge of VPN users from Vietnam, and suspecteda Facebook block was to blame.There are a number ofTwitter reportsof a blockage as well.Sounds like Facebook is blocked in Vietnam as government tried to cut off communication by protestors. lemon (@lotusr00t) May 17, 2016Both Instagram and Facebook were blocked in Vietnam now. Tell me why? Shine_hej (@Shine_hej) May 15, 2016Meanwhile in #Vietnam, Facebook has been blocked to curb protests. They didnt learn from Arab Spring Raj Taneja (@tinhead) May 15, 2016Hello Vietnam, so until when will you block facebook and instagram?  Anton Altamirano (@blazerboy11) May 15, 2016The country of Vietnam shut down Facebook and Instagram the day I arrive  Brett Conti (@Brettconti92) May 14, 2016Hello world! Anybody there? No #Facebook access now here in Vietnam. Friends in PH, you don't want this to happen to you. No fun! Hello Saigon (@lyraliza) May 14, 2016Having issues with facebook and instagram. I am in Saigon Vietnam. Anyone know the reason please! #instagramproblem #facebookdown Nikki (@brat_girl6684) May 14, 2016Vietnams government has blocked social media off and on over the years, though more recently leadersappeared to be embracing Facebook. In October, Bloomberg reported that Vietnams Communist government even set up its own page on the network dubbed Government Information, in an effort to reach the 30 million citizens who used the service.Facebook has not yet responded to a request for comment.Its unclear at this time if the ban, implemented to crack down on the Sunday protests, is still in effect. It appears it may have been lifted, however, according to websitesthat track outages like outage.report and DownDetector.Its also unclear if it extended outside of Hanoi and Saigon, where the demonstrations were planned.