Not content with spinning out apps for stickers inside Messenger, Groups and new addition Rooms, Facebook has launchedanother standalone app. Facebook Lite, which some may recall asa simplified version of its mobile websitefrom2009-2010, isspecifically designed for low-end Android devices in emerging markets.TechCrunch understands that the app was quietly launched in a handful of countriesin Asia and Africa over the weekendBangladesh, Nepal, Nigeria, South Africa, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Vietnamand Zimbabwe to be precise where itis being testing with a view to further expansions. That said, a widerlaunchis not a certainty and Facebook could quietly can the projectif it doesnt believe it isworth pursuing.The app has been built to accommodate low-end and dated Android devices  it is just 252 KB in size  and thoseon 2G/poor quality internet connections. Its based on Snaptu, Facebooks feature phone client, but includes some native Android features, such as push notifications and camera integration, to make the experience a more sophisticated one.Why is Facebook launching yet another app? Smartphone sales aresoaring in India, which was the fastest growing marketinAsia Pacific in Q3 2014, while theres huge potential inAfrica and Southeast Asia where mobile will be (or already is) the primary internet platform for millions.Even though Facebook retooled its Android app specifically for emerging markets last year, it is making sure thatit offers a good experience to any usernot matter their device or network connection. (Android is the platform of choice for most smartphone owners in emerging markets since devices can cost upwards of $30.)Facebook already has its Internet.org project, which provides free access to a range of mobile internet services including, of course, Facebook. Internet.org is currently limited to a selection of countries in Africa at this point and, since it is being developed in partnership with carriers and other telecom industry players, launches are time and resource intensive: so why not pull together a Lite app that can potentially be pushed to millions overnight, thats Facebooks thinking here.If youre in one of the aforementioned eight countries where Facebook Lite has launched  and you have an Android phone  then you can check it out here.The early signs seem positive.The app has already crossed 10,000 downloads at the time of writing, with a 4.6 ratingfrom an initial 693 reviewers. The few early users tweeting about it seem impressed too.Got "Facebook Lite" on my phone!!!  feeling excited Apeksha Ranasinghe (@APRanasinghe) January 24, 2015.@facebook Facebook Lite is awesome :) (y) #lka Amhar (@ESoftie) January 23, 2015Facebook lite app!!! yabbbaa finally a perfect app from Facebook!!! :) Komban (@Banned_tweeter) January 21, 2015