Portugal Ventures-backedcompany Wizi knows a thing or two about social geolocation services, having made a business in recent yearsbuilding Foursquare-like appsforcarriers, including Telefonica and Vodafone. One example beingVodafone Radar an app which it says garnered around half a million downloads.But working with carriers, say co-founders Paulo Dimas andJorge Medeira, ispainstakingly slow compared to the pace of startup development  taking, for instance, a full two years to launch just one app with Telefonica in Brazil. (Its horrible is their concise verdict on working with carriers).Which is why they decidedto branch out on their own last April, launchinga social locationapp for checkins and keeping abreast offriends whereabouts calledFacesIn,initially for Android. That prettystandard SoLoMo servicehas now morphed  via apartial pivot  into something more interesting:delivering location-based alerts onwhere people of interestto you will be in the near future.So rather than continuing to chase the bandwagon of apps and services that promise to keep you appraised of your friends real-time movements, such as the aforementioned Foursquare or Swarm or other real-time location mapping/pinging services, FacesIn can now parse public data and social postings to alert you when someone you are interested in isgoing to be at a public event inyour vicinity soon such as speaking at a conference. The idea being to give users the chance to cross paths with people they want to network with.Everybody is doing the now  so whos nearby now. Thats interesting. But nobody is doing soon. Nobody is doing who is going to be in this location in the near future, says Dimas. So we believe theres a lot of value here. For instance if you are in London and you want to pick events to go to, typically people do it because they want to meet somebody, they want to connect, they want to follow up.If you were talking about pro-actively monitoringthe schedules of celebrities or general web usersthat wouldsound prettystalkerish but the initial focus for the new version of the appis on tech startup entrepreneurs and investors. Who of course have a special thirst for networking, contacts building and co-locating.Using online data sources such as CrunchBase and AngelList, the team has curated a list of around 500 VIP individuals of especial relevance to this group  including TCs very own Editor-At-Large, Mike Butcher (I checked and they confirmed Mike is on their list)  cross referencing thislist withpublic information sources such as Eventbrite and Twitter to gather dataon these peoples future locations so it can keep its own users in the loop.Its also pulling follower and otherdata fromAngelList and Twitter to get info on who its users are most interested in (such as people they follow and actively engage with on these social platforms); and from LinkedIn  again to get info on who users may be most interested in meeting (via their contactslist). FacesIn does notscrape VIP targetslocation data from LinkedIn itself; only public information sources are used for gathering theirlocation signals.We try to infer the relevancy. Thats a big challenge, Dimas tells TechCrunch, discussing how it determines when it should send a notification of a tech VIPs future location. We are trying to overcome major challenges in this domain We try to make it as automatic as possible to the user. Because we know users are lazy and so we try to, by combining the distance to the location, the relevancy  the affinity level (we have a kind of a score for each contact that you have, or each person that you follow), and by combining these variables we decide if this notification is relevant. Because of course we dont want to spam the user. And we also dont want to ask many questions to the user. Thats why you turn on LinkedIn and it does the work for you.Even if they werentable to plug into LinkedIn  say if the platformdecided to close off itsAPI to them the team says it could still use smartphone contacts data to power its service (although it stresses it has a good working relationship with LinkedIn). So its not wholly dependent on any oneof these other platforms, even though it does rely on public data to power its predictions.What about business model? Wiziisnt expecting tech folkto pay to be pinged that Butcher (or another startup luminary) will be passing throughtheir city in a few weeks. The app is entirely free for now. Rather, in future, the co-founders believe theres a business to be had inselling its social utilitytosalespeople who also have a special need to coincide in meatspace withpotentialleads so they can press flesh and seal deals.But firsttheyre testing and honing their concept on the startup crowd. Becausethesesorts of predictive notifications need careful tuning. There is obviously a fine line between utility and spam  given the app needs todeterminewhich of the people who you find interesting are you really most interested in meeting.How does it do that? Natural language processing and textual analytics of your social activity, coupled with machine learning algorithms is the teams special sauce here. To help its algorithms improve, the app asks users to givefeedback on whether individual notifications were useful or not so it can better learntheir preferences.FacesIn is also designed to bean invisible app  so it runs in the background and only intrudes on the user when it has something to tell them. The team say they are aiming for a maximum of two notifications per day.What we are doing differently is talking about the future, and not about the past and the present Of course its a big challenge. If it wasnt everybody would be doing it, says Dimas. We have now combined a set of technologies  namely in the domain of natural language processing, and also machine learning, and that allows us to interpret, to understand when for instance somebody is going to be a speaker at an event.We collect that data and combine it with the profile data that we already have from the social networks.We are doing this progressively, he adds. What we are doing to start and to gain an initial critical mass is to focus on a specific target of users. In this case we are targeting the startup ecosystem And so by analyzing all event data that are published by CrunchBase we have lots of data that we can process.Of course people may say they are going to be at an event, or they are announced as speakers at the event, and they may not be there in the end. But we just link them to the event page to keep the user informed about all the details.People whose locations users of FacesIn are monitoringare not informed their movements are being tracked and re-broadcastin this way  the app hasno public list equivalent to Twitters following list. However the team stresses allthe future locationinformation it is drawing on is public data; so itsjust joining a fewdots and automating notifications. Albeit thatmay still feel a little creepy. But this is what you get whendispersed pieces of(big) public data arebrought together with a little lightweight data processing.We believe there is so much value in this but when you talk about it the reaction is oh, isntthat freaky? But its possible to do. And its valuable for the user, says Dimas. Arent we in a world where privacy is always a concern with everything you do?The teamhas pulled in around500,000 in seed funding specifically for FacesIn from Portugal Ventures. Its looking to raise a bridge round in the next 12 to 18 months to continue developing the product and  it hopes  turn a free social utility thats pitched at the startup ecosysteminto a service that salespeople will bewilling to pay for. An iOS version of FacesIn is also planned for Q2 or Q3 this year.Asked about competitors they name-check a few social location apps  such as Highlight, Glympse and Connect  but again point out that rivals are solely focused onreal-time location (as FacesIn was prior to its pivot), whereas theirnew flagship feature isall about looking ahead to the people and opportunities that are headed your way.Now the teamneeds to prove it can deliver genuinely useful predictive signals  rather than generating yet another feed oflocation-based noise. The proof of this algorithms utility will be in the selective deliverance.