Facebook has always been captivated by the 24-hour news cycle. Theyve made efforts through endeavors like Facebook Stories to show the viability of Facebook embeds as a truly dynamic primary source, while more recentmoves such as their Trending section and Instant Articles have shown that theyre serious about driving usersto news content without having them ever leave the site.Today, Facebook introduced a new platform called Signal to entice journalists to discover and embed their content. The tool, which pulls fromboth Facebook and Instagram, allows journalists the opportunity to make Facebook a more vital part of their news gathering with access to relevant trends, photos, videos, and posts on Facebook and Instagram for use in their storytelling and reporting according to a company blog post fromAndy Mitchell, Director of Media Partnerships at Facebook.This is just the latest move from Facebook targeting professional content creators. Last week Facebook introduced its Mentions app to all of its verified profiles, allowing journalists and celebrities the opportunity to broadcastlive video streamsand create posts that onlygo out to their followers.Part of the usefulness of Signal is that it gives journalists access to multiplehighly sorted newsfeeds of public content. Right now, items like the Trending topicsfeature are influenced by a users personal profile interests including what pages theyve liked and what content they engage with. Signal gives journalists a more universal spread of whats actually trending across the board through Trending Now. The platform also helps journalists identify items that are just beginning to spike in their viral-nessthrough a new feature called Emerging Trends.In both look and function, Signal appears to have taken some inspiration from applications like Tweetdeck. Journalists can now group pages and profiles to appear in specific feeds so if theywant to monitor public reactions from U.S. Senators, they can build a dedicated newsfeed, called a collection, just for those certain profiles. The same goes for Instagram posts, where Signal users can enter in specific Instagram handles and be presented with a curated newsfeed.This is really amajor step forward in Facebooks continued efforts to become a major hub for news discovery. By giving journalists more effective tools to use the site to discover content and embed it intheir stories, Facebook is building up a symbiotic relationship with publications that may grow to see more of the actual articles being published entirelyon Facebook through initiatives like Instant Articles and those that follow it.