Facebook is facing fresh criticism in Europe over data protectionand the myriad smoke-and-mirrors methodsit uses to obfuscate itsgathering and processing of user data.Areport commissioned by Belgiums data protection authority has found Facebooksrevised privacy policy, lastupdated in January, violates European consumer protection law in a number of ways.The detailed 61-page report, written by academics at the Universities of Leuven and Brussels and entitled From social media service to advertising network, highlights what theauthorsjudgeto be a raft of violations of current European law.Among thepractices being criticizedare:The report notes that Facebooks data processing capabilities have increased both
horizontally and vertically  viaincreasingly detailed data mining of activity on Facebooks own platform, and outside as Zuck & cogather user data from acquired companies, partnering platforms and websites or mobile applications that rely onFacebook (or one of its companies) for advertising or other services.Ina general assessment of the revised terms, the report authors say that while Facebooks new privacy policy ups theprominence of its data use practices the company is still communicating on a general and abstract level  with hypothetical and vague language obfuscating its data-related activities, and with only limited choice offered to users about how their data is processed:Overall, Facebooks revised DUP [data use policy] signals the companys data use practices in a more prominentway. In this regard, Facebook seems to have taken an important step forward. However, the usesof data are still only communicated on a general and abstract level. Much of the DUP consists ofhypothetical and vague language rather than clear statements regarding the actual use of data.Moreover, the choices Facebook offers to its users are limited. For many data uses, the onlychoice for users is to simply take-it-or-leave-it. If they do not accept, they can no longer useFacebook and may miss out on content exclusively shared on this platform. In other words,Facebook leverages its dominant position on the OSN market to legitimise the tracking of individuals behaviour across services and devices.The re-use of user content for targeting and advertising purposes is deeply embedded in Facebooks practices. It is impossible to add any information that may not later be re-used for targeting, and any like may become a trigger to portray a user in a Sponsored Story or Social Ad. From the latter one can opt-out, but the only way to stop appearing in Sponsored Stories, is by stopping to like content altogether. Users are even more disempowered because they are unaware about how exactly their data is used for advertising purposes. Furthermore, they are left in the dark about their appearance in promotional content. Facebook should not only provide users with more options to control how their data is gathered, but also show users how their name and picture is used in specific instances.Facebooks European HQ is in Ireland, so itsregulated by the Irish Data Protection Commissioner. The Irish DPC has previously auditedFacebooks practicesback in 2011 and 2012  and at the latter time declared itself generally satisfied thatFacebook had implemented recommendations (such as turning off a facial recognition tagging feature in Europe) to comply with regional data protection requirements.In a statement responding to the Belgian DPA report, a Facebook spokesman said the company is confident its updated terms and policies comply with applicable laws:We recently updated our terms and policies to make them more clear and concise, to reflect new product features and to highlight how were expanding peoples control over advertising. Were confident the updatescomply with applicable laws. As a company with international headquarters in Dublin, we routinely review product and policy updates  including this one  with our regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner, who oversees our compliance with the EU Data Protection Directive as implemented under Irish law.The European Union is in the process of reforming and harmonizing its data protection directive, which dates back to 1995.New rules, with more stringent penalties for non-compliance,are expected to be agreed later this year by the European Parliament.