Almost a decade ago, Facebooks chief product officer Chris Cox(pictured above) started playing weddings with a reggae band out of East Palo Alto.At the time, the company had barely launched beyond college campuses and Cox had just finished Stanford.East Palo Alto, in contrast, is this community that sits right across the Highway 101 from Palo Alto, the originally home city of Silicon Valley whichgave rise to iconic companies like Hewlett-Packard, VMWare, Tesla and Facebook itself.Unlike its neighbor to the west, East Palo Alto has double the unemployment rate andone-third of its residents lack more than a high school diploma. As I wrote about last month in a very long and through history, a lot of this has to do with unjustland-use and local government policies from the past 70 years.Today, Facebooks headquarters sits right on the Menlo Park and East Palo Alto border, and the city has shifted toward aLatino majority from its historically black roots. It is one of the last bastions of affordable housing on the peninsula.As Facebookrocketed toward a multi-billion dollar IPO, Cox stayedinvolved in East Palo Alto.When one of hisbandmates, Justin Phipps, partnered with other community leaders toteach music and college readiness to children in after school programs a few years ago, Cox helped them pay for space and a studio in a house thatused to bea Black Powerelementaryschool inthe 1970s.Itstarted from my musical relationshipwithhim, Phipps said. But nowitsbeencemented into anactual partnership withthe community.Cox has never been very public about his commitments, but now hes giving $1 million to Phipps organizationLive in Peace.This is something that we wanted to announce to shine a light on philanthropy that is local,said Cox.Cox is aware that one milliondollars isnt enough to address the citys mounting challenges with affordable housing and gentrification, but hes worked withLive in Peace for somany years that he knows they provide something valuable to the city.Its very hard because its so pressurized and its such a big problem. I dont pretend that this is the whole solution to everything, Cox said. But when you find something where you know the people are good and the organization is good, paying attention to that is the right thing to do even without knowing the whole answer.With Stanford students Shadi Barhoumi and Rafael Cosman, Live in Peacerecently opened Streetcode Academy, which teaches programming, mobile app development and Arduino to studentsatthe campus of an old remedial school.Its a holisticapproach. If you ever visit on one of their hack days (and I have several times), there are kids playing basketball, beatboxing and working on hardware.There is this idea that all these young kids need istechnical training, said Olatunde Sobomehin. But what has been missed or is really difficult to grasp isthatLive in Peaceis more than these coding classes. Its this whole other spirit and energy.Phipps, Sobomehin and Heather Starnes, another community leader who has been involved in East Palo Alto for almost 30 years, are using the money to pay for staff and teaching salaries so Live in Peace can continue to offer free music and technicaleducation to youth in the city.Coxs donation comes at a time when other young tech leaders are trying to figure out how to deploy their wealth in a philanthropic way. The Silicon Valley Community Foundation, which houses some of Mark Zuckerbergs charitable funds, has ballooned in size, growing from $4.7 billion in holdings at the end of 2013 to $6.5 billionat the end of last year. This was in part because other moguls like Whatsapp founder Jan Koum and GoPro CEO Nicholas Woodman have established donor-advised funds there. (Donor-advised funds are vehicles forpermanently setting aside capital for philanthropy whenyoure younger, even if you dont know exactly what you want to commit it towards.)While Cox isemphasizing his local giving, other tech leadersneed to find their own way.I dont want to criticize anybody, he said. People need to take their time to figure it out. Anybody who makes a lot of money suddenly inherits a responsibility to give it away and everybody has to find their own path to doing that.