Facebook today detailed plans for its solar-powered, laser-connected, Internet-beaming Aquila drones, but confirmed its not going to compete with Internet Service Providers. Our intention is not to be an operator Facebooks VP of engineering Jay Parikh told an assembly of reporters. Were not going to be Facebook ISP.'Instead, Facebook plans to work with carriers around the world to equip them with these drones so they can sell Internet connectivity to the 10 percent of the population in remote areas out of reach of existing mobile networks. Facebook also says national governments have also expressed interest in getting Aquila drones for their countries.Facebook has largely billed its Internet.org project as a humanitarian effort to bring people into the knowledge economy. But Parikh confirmed to me that selling or licensing the solar drones, Free Space Optics lasers, and other technologies are options. That means Facebook could earn money while fulfilling its mission to connect the whole world.Yesterday on its earnings, Facebook reported a massive year-over-year increase in expenditures from $1.5 billion to $2.7 billion per quarter, mostly for R&D of projects like these drones. Selling or licensing them could recoup thosecosts.Facebooks VP of Engineering Jay Parikh details Aquilas progress at its Menlo Park HQFacebook also announced two big connectivity milestones today:Heres a video from Facebook about the Aquila drone:Announced in late 2013, the Facebook-led Internet.org is a partnership of telecom companies designed to bring Internet access to the remaining 5billion people without it. The problem was that the rate of people getting online for the first time was slowing down, so Facebook decided to step in. Accomplishing ubiquitous connectivity breaks down to solving three problems:Facebooks not the only one trying to solve the last problem. Googles Project Loon uses lighter-than-air balloons to beam Internet down to people in remote areas. Yesterday Google announced that its partnered with the government of Sri Lanka to blanket the entire country with connectivity. Facebook and Google are racing because both want people to remember them as the company that granted them the Internet.Facebooks Yale Maguire details Facebooks research into where the unconnected people liveWhy not just use traditional cell phone towers? Its extremely expensive to buy the land for, build, operate and protect these towers. Thats not cost-effective since towers can only reach a limited area where population is sparseand buying power is low, so prices need to be, too. Aerial vehicles could be much cheaper once the science is ready.When combined, Facebook hopes its terrestrial, drone and satellite projects could make sure every person on the planet can have Internet access. And since Facebook is one of the most popular things people do with Internet, it stands to gain a lot more users if it can get them online.Mark Zuckerberg posted about todays news saying Using aircraft to connect communities using lasers might seem like science fiction. But science fiction is often just science before its time.