The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has claimedthat the organization is not trying to break Apples encryption or set up backdoor access to the companys devices and services.Writing forLawfare, a not-for-profit, addressing the ongoing standoff between Apple and the FBI over access to the iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino shooters, FBI Director James Comey arguedthat the issue is actually quite narrow.We simply want the chance, with a search warrant, to try to guess the terrorists passcode without the phone essentially self-destructing and without it taking a decade to guess correctly. Thats it. We dont want to break anyones encryption or set a master key loose on the land. I hope thoughtful people will take the time to understand that. Maybe the phone holds the clue to finding more terrorists. Maybe it doesnt. But we cant look the survivors in the eye, or ourselves in the mirror, if we dont follow this lead.What Comeys essay omits to mention, is that one-off access is tantamount to access at any time.Apple has received the backing of many in the tech industry  including the founders/CEOs of Twitter, Facebook, Google, Boxand others  for refusing to comply with the demand to create bespoke software to enablethe FBI to access data on the device  data that even Apple itself cannot access. The company, which said it has provided authoritieswith all the user informationthat it has in its possession for the case, argued that compromising its security even just one timeis akin to providing a backdoor that authorities could useto gain access toany other Apple device in the future.The implications of the governments demands are chilling. If the government can use the All Writs Act to make it easier to unlock your iPhone, it would have the power to reach into anyones device to capture their data,Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a letter to customers last week.Comey himself claimed that this tension between upholding user privacyand enabling access to datashould not be resolved by corporations that sell stuff for a living. Instead, he argued, it should be resolved by the American people deciding how we want to govern ourselves in a world we have never seen before.Reuters reported that a number of San Bernardino victims are preparing to file a brief in support of the government. So while the tech world has mounted a strong argumentthat the governments demands are troubling and set a dangerous precedent  as weve writtena number of times  it appears that public opinion isnt entirely aligned with Apple and its peers.