As expected, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) passednew net neutrality regulations today on a vote of 3-2, with the Commissions two Democratic appointees joiningChairman Tom Wheeler in voting yes. The Commissions two Republican-appointed members both voted no.Notably, the FCCs plan is now known to haveundergone a last-minute revisionto remove a potential weakness in its formation, pointed out by Google, that might have allowed for some paid prioritization. If you were curious about Googles take on net neutrality, that fact should settle the question.The CEO of Etsy, an online marketplace, spoke before the commission voted to applaud the FCC for putting into place bright line rules, and voting to protect the Internet.Up first from the commission, CommissionerMignon Clyburn said in her remarks that the framers of America would be pleased with the FCCs plan. The commissioner went on to call todays vote the FCCs third bite at the apple. Clyburn also disclosed, as was previously reported, that she had helped shape part of the order, and also listed a number of changes she would have preferred to see in the order itself. The commissioner wrapped by arguing that individuals who are worried about rate regulation are worrying unnecessarily.CommissionerJessica Rosenworcelargued that the United StatesInternet economy is the envy of the world. We invented it. The app economybegan right here on our shores. Shewent on to call the Internet our printing press and our town square.Rosenworcel also called attention to the massive outpouring of public response to net neutrality: Four million Americans wrote to this agencyWhatever our disagreements are on net neutrality, I hope we agree that this is democracy in action and something we can all support.Commissioner Ajit Pai said that it was sad to witness the FCC replacing Internet freedom with government control. Pai continued, saying that the FCC only voted on the rules that it did due to intrusion into the agencys processes by President Barack Obama.Pai was typically terse: The plan is not a solution to a problem, he said, going on to call the plan itself the problem.Commissioner Michael OReilly criticized the proposal to reverse Title II: I see no need for net neutrality rules. I am far more troubled the commission is charting for Title II. He continued, calling the move a monumental and unlawful power grab.OReilly then called the forbearance of certain Title II provisions fauxbearance.No one, whether government or corporate, should control free and open access to the Internet, Chairman Wheeler said. The Internet is too important to allow broadband providers to make the rules. He then said it was nonsense that this was a secret plan to regulate the Internet. This plan is no more a plan to regulate the Internet than the First Amendment is a plan to regulate free speech, he said.Legal action in response to the new rules is expected. Chairman Wheeler decided to invoke Title II to reclassify broadband service, something that has long been anathema to ISPs. So, while this vote was important, the life of net neutrality is not yet safe. Congress has agitated against the FCCs plan in recent weeks.This story is developing.