Femsplain bills itself as a community-driven publisher, and its looking to build that community with a new initiative called Femsplain Beta.The feminist site was launched last year, raised more than $30,000 viaKickstarter (I was a backer)and has already published personal articlesfrom more than 250 female contributors. Those stories covertopics like cancer, kids (or lack thereof), abortions/voluntary interruptions and accepting praise.Next up, founder Amber Gordon (previously a creative strategist at Tumblr) told me she wants to build a broader platform for online discussion groups. Some of those conversationswill focus on Femsplain content, but theyll also cover other topics:We feel thatFemsplains content is helping focus the conversation on the issues through discussing personal experiences vs. just having a bunch of noise talking into the social media void. By bringing context and a voice to the conversation, we feel that the contributedcontent can not only kickstart awareness but also steerthe conversation into a productive way. With that said we will be encouragingcontent from outside ofFemsplainfor our community to discuss. Even though we focus on personal experiences we make sure were also discussing importantcurrent events and issues.While she didnt mention it directly, its easy to see Gordons aim of creating discussions around topics like Mental health, Physical health and disabilities, the Trans, WOC, and LBTQ experiences as a reaction, or at least a corrective, to the struggles that Reddit is having with racist, misogynist and otherwise hateful content.Anyone will be able to sign up as a reader, allowing you tobrowse the discussions and heart individual posts, but youll need an authenticated member account to actually post. The discussion groups will be created by the Femsplain staff and moderated by community leaders. Naturally, Gordonsaid Femsplain will not tolerate any hate speech or derogatory comments toward the author of the post or author commenters.In addition to the Kickstarter funding,Gordon has raised some money from angel investors, but she said the sites biggest challenge is still raising enough money to continue building the future of Femsplain.Running the Kickstarter wasnt easy, but with it I felt like I was talking to the right audience, now its not as easy, sheadded. I definitely have had a lot of help in this area and Im excited to keep moving forward.