When was the last time you changed your homes air filter? If youre like me and the majority of other homeowners across the U.S., thisroutine home-maintenance task is easy to forget because filters are only changed every few months or so. But the costs of not changing the filter are high: reduced air quality, higher energy bills and, over time, dirty air filterscan even contribute to A/C system issuesand failures.A startup called FilterEasy, which is offering a subscription-based filter replacement program for homeowners, has been helping to address this problem. And now the company has raised $1.2 million in seed funding to continue togrow its business.The funding round was led byMike Kwatinetz ofAzure Capital, with participation from RTP Capital and several angel investors.Based in Raleigh, N.C., FilterEasy was founded by two former NCSU students, Kevin Barry and Thad Tarkington,who left college to build thecompany. After participating in the Greenville-based The Iron Yard accelerator program, the team launched FilterEasy out of beta in March 2014.The site currently offers air filters in over 40 different sizes and three quality levels, which covers most residential air filter needs today. To get signed up, homeowners provide their personal information, select their filter and tell FilterEasy how often they want it shipped to them  like every three months, for example.Where we see the value is that most homeowners can never remember to change [their air filter], says Tarkington. There are over 120 million homes in America that use these filters, but its something that you dont think about. And when you finally do, you have to go to the store  it takes an hour, maybe they dont have your size  its this whole long process to change a simple $10, $15 or $20 filter.FilterEasys pricing is the same as retail, but is sold on a recurring subscription basis instead of being a traditional e-commerce site. Consumers are charged when their filter ships, similar to something like Amazons subscribe-and-save.However, Amazons site at presentoffers a limited selection of air filters on subscription and sells them in more expensive multi-packs. This doesnt really address the main problem with using airfilters, notes Tarkington. When it comes time to usethe next one in the pack, homeowners will forget.With FilterEasy, the product shows up right when its time to swap out the old one.Since partnering and co-locating with U.S. filter manufacturerFlanders, the startup is able to ship filters directly tohomeowners at the same cost they would bein the store.Since its launch, FilterEasy has signed up over 10,000 paying subscribers and is now seeing a revenue run rate of over$1 million per year.Many of the subscribers skew older,Tarkington tells us. Theyre people whove experiencedthe problem first-hand, having owned a home for several years, andmaybe even had to change out their A/C system once or twice. They understand the value in this home-maintenance task.Now a team of 13, FilterEasy will use the additional funding for marketing purposes, to help get the word out and educate a wider range of consumers about theservices value, Tarkington says. In addition, the company is beta-testing a program for commercial businesses, such asgyms and restaurants, which should launch in the near future.