Over the past six years,FindTheBest has been rolling out search and comparison shopping tools (18 in all)to cover everything fromcompanies to schools to gadgets to real estate. At this point,founder and CEO Kevin OConnor said that calling the company FindTheBest no longer makes sense soits rebranding as Graphiq.OConnor, who previouslyco-founded DoubleClick (acquired by Google for $3.1 billion and nowa major part of its ad platform),said hes been hinting at the broader vision for a while  after all, hes talked about how the companys different datasets have become increasingly interconnected.In his words, the team ended up buildingthe worlds largest knowledge graph. More concretely, the company says it has created a database of 1 billion entities, describing them with 120 billion attributes and connecting them via 25 billion relationships. For example, the knowledge graph contains a long list of data pointsabout Harvard University, including admission rates, SAT scores and tuition.On some level, that seems obvious  youd need that kind of informationto do what FindTheBest already does. But by gradually building up the data as FindTheBest expandedsubject-by-subject, Vice President of Engineering Ivan Bercovich said the company has succeeded where other attempts at creating a knowledge graph have failed. Particularly important are the relationships between different data points. The company not only has informationabout home prices, but it can then combine that with data from other categories,like schools and health.The vertical search engine was the first manifestation of what we could do with this knowledge graph, OConnor said.Moving forward, Graphiq will continue to operate FindTheBest and other sites like FindTheData and SoftwareInsider. But its also launching a new set of products that allow online newsrooms to create infographics and other visualizations.Those products include Graphiq Search, where journalists can  you guessed it  search through the companys existing visualizations and create new ones from Graphiq data; a Graphiq Feed with news alerts and research; and Graphiq Plugins, starting with integrations for WordPress and WordPress VIP, which automatically recommend visualizations that may be relevant for a given story.While there are other visualization companies out there, such as Visually, the real selling point is the data that Graphiq is drawing on. It allowspublishers to create graphics ina wide range of topics, from U.S. airstrikes to baby names to executive salaries. (To support the needs of newsrooms,Vice President of Distribution Alex Rosenberg said the companyhad to flesh out some areas where it was weak, like celebrity data.)Publishers that have already used Graphiq visualizations include AOL/The Huffington Post (AOL owns TechCrunch), MSN, the International Business Times and Hearst Newspapers.You might think that Graphiq is turning to those publishers as a new revenue source  but that doesnt appear to be the case, at least not yet. Instead, Rosenberg said Graphiq is providing itstools for free.Newspapers have been in business for hundreds of years and theyve built up huge audiences, but theyre struggling with the transition to digital, he said. A lot of the problems theyre encountering are not editorial problems, theyretechnology and business problems. We have the opposite problem  were really good at technology, but we need new ways to reach audiences.And yes, OConnor has plans for more Graphiq products.We want to get knowledge delivered to people who need it, OConnor said. Weve got two or three other really huge ideas that were working on that we think that could be useful across the Internet. Who doesnt need knowledge?