Its easy to move your money between banks. Whats annoying is movingyour apps.Theres been a recent explosion of fintech products in spaces likestock trading, wealth management, payments, loans, remittance andinsurance. Its been fueled by a massive uptick in ventureinvestment in private fintech companies, which hit $13.8 billion in 2015according to CB Insights, (Update: $19 billion including private equity, mutual funds, and angels). Thats up 58 percent from 2014 and over 1,000 percent since2010.Theres no doubtthese startups disrupt particular services thatthe big banks provide or facilitate. If startups in all these spaces succeed, theycould nip at banks revenue opportunities. Still, banks largely maketheir profits investing consumers money rather than on tertiaryservices.But what many of these startups have in common is that they all relyon connecting to your existing bank to fund your accounts with them orreceive money. Rather than shun the startups, the incumbents havebuilt bridges to let you hook fintech products into your bankaccounts.The result is that while banking is changing rapidly, you might bemore reluctant to change which bank you use, according to several fintech founders and VCs I spoke to.Even down on the credit and debit card level, e-commerce products fromAmazon to Uber have added friction to switching banks. Youd have togo in and update your accounts in each of these apps. Now if I lose acredit card, Im more inclined to tell my bank I accidentallydestroyed it so they send me a replacement with the same card numberto avoid the hassle.Now fintech is doing the same with apps jacked directly into your bankaccount. That could allow banks to focus more on new customeracquisition and upselling than retention, because users are inherently becomingentrenched with their existing bank.Meanwhile, each individual fintech startup sees the banks asfrenemies. They might compete over one service specifically, but aswhole, the banks are their partners. Down the line, as the startupsseek to expand into adjacent markets, that tenuous alliance mightchange. But for now, the banks that get it love the fintech startupsmore than youd guess.