When Firefox cofounder Blake Ross last showed off his writing wits, he was imagining new adventures for the fictional Pied Piper team on HBOs Silicon Valley. Now hes creating a new original series called PRICKS, based on the antics of afictional high profile startupthats developing a specialized blood test.Soundever sovaguely familiar? Well, now add in the narrative that the startup (namedDynapy) is embroiled in a scandal led by an investigative article published in the Wall Street Journal, which causes companies like Walgreens to reevaluate their relationship with the fictional blood testing company.Check out the full screenplay here.Youll find no direct reference to the blood testing startup Theranos in Rosss extensive notes for the script which he published online, though the narratives align in pretty comically identical ways. When I asked Ross whether he took any inspiration for the screenplay from Theranos, he gave a pretty hilariousanswer.Theranos is a blend of Therapy and Diagnosis. The company that this show follows, Dynapy, is a blend of Diagnosis and Therapy. Theyre totally different.Well, thats that. The script is pretty emphatic in declaringits parodical nature/ covering its bases. The top of it reads,THIS IS A PARODY WORK OF FICTION.Apparent/obvious connections aside, this is a really cool project from Ross. He detailed to me how he wants the project to evolve as an open source TV show, where the storylineshiftswith real-world occurrencesand audience contributions.I got a lot of comments after I published my Silicon Valley script about how fun it would be to do open source TV, so I thought Id give it a shot. Ross told TechCrunch. It was inspiring for me to watch Andy Weir evolve The Martian in public from a little hobby story to an international film success. He went direct to the audience with quality contentnone of the networking, none of the BS. I still have a lot to learn, but thats the model I aspire to with anything I do.The script itself is hilarious. It largely revolves around the idea of how wacky things can get when non-technical (in this casepeople with little/no experience in the medical field) founders are presented with issues that they have to bootstraptheir way out of, generally with the help of PR geniuses rather than people that actually know the technologies.Thats not to say there arent a few doctors advising the Dynapy team. Chairman Dr. Dre gathers insights from Dr. Oz and Dr. Phil who also sit on Dynapysboard.Outside of the few pop culture figures that Ross weaves into the narrative, its interesting to see just how inventive hes been inbuilding originalcharacters, something he says was one of the most challenging parts of putting together the script,much more difficult than writing dialoguefor an established character like Erlich in his original screenplay for HBOs Silicon Valley.Erlich is already a developed character, and hes played by a brilliant actor. But when I write Bob on the page, you start at square one, said Ross. Ive got a much longer distance to travel as a writer. Thats something I still need to figure out, but theres nothing you cant master if youre willing to do it a thousand times.With PRICKS, Ross had to think up the whole project from scratch, puttingtons of thought into every cool little motif, including the opening title sequence.Where does Ross want to go with the project from here? Well, given the projects open source nature, that relies a lot on the response it garners, though Ross seems to think that a response from one party might be more influential than other on his creative processes.I cant wait to see how Pricks evolves from this halting baby step, said Ross in aFacebook post. Unless Theranos sues me for making a parody tomorrow. Then Ill just start writing a show about that instead.