After payments processorFirst Data priced its initial public offering at $16 per sharelast night, below the expected range of $18-$20, all eyes were on the company to see how the years biggest IPO  raising $2.56 billion would perform in its debut. Ultimately, there were no fireworks. Trading under theFDC ticker on the New York Stock Exchange, First Datas stock opened this morningat $16.39, up 2.43% andcoming innot with a bang, but a whimper.And at the time of writing,FDCs is not looking great. Today the stock closed below its IPO price, at 15.83 per share.The$2.6 billion in net proceeds that First Datapicked up from itsIPOis the biggest of the year. The companysvaluation of$14 billion, however, is well below the $29 billion that KKR paid in 2007 when it bought out First Data and took the company private after its first outing in the public markets.While First Data did not give a reason for its IPO pricing decision, some believe it was because of the iffymarket for IPOs right now. Others cite the fact that the company is carryinga lot of debt, currently to the tune of $21.16 billion, with a lot of that attributable to that buyout in 2007. The IPO proceeds will be used to pay some of that down.First Datais unprofitable, in part because of the interest its paying on that debt. In the first half of 2015, the company reported a net loss of $138 million.There are also some external factors that may also impacthow well First Data may do. For starters, Squarealso filed for an IPOjust last night.Square may beworking withgross margins of just 29 percent and also has a net loss, in its case, $78 million for the first half of this year. But its smaller and more nimble and in these heady days of tech, size may prove to be less of success factor than innovation and simply being able to move faster than financial giants to respond to changing market conditions. Or so some thinking goes, at least.And First Data, indeed, is something of a payments giant. The company posted revenues of $5.56 billion for the first half of the year; is present in some 6 million businesses and 4,000 financial institutions across 118 countries. Its 23,000 owner-associates process over 2,300 transactions per second and $1.9 trillion annually, the company says.And while its huge, First Data has been trying to make up for that size by buying many smaller and more nimble startups to try to match the Squares of the world. Most recently, the company bought Spree Commerceas a move into open source payments technology.First Datas IPO was run by Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and KKR.Below is an interview from the NYSE floor with Katie and First Datas President, Guy Chiarello.Image: Brent Herron