The selfie phenomenon is easilymocked and derided as narcissistic. Viewed from outside, scenes of teens snapping apparentlyendless poutyposesof themselves may well appear to be the embodiment of a staggeringly navel-gazing fascination.But, well, thats kindamissing the point  by misunderstanding the point of the selfie.The point, as Snapchats Evan Spiegel recently took to video to explain, is communication. Selfies (and other socially shared photos) are visual text messages. They are the conversation. And what better canvas for self expression that ones own face?With that in mind, a quick but interesting update on Danish fashion-focused social network Fitbay, which last year raised a $2 million seed round. The service is preparing for a partial pivot, that will put photo-sharing front and centre  because fashion selfies are by far and away where it has achieved the mostengagement among its users.Bottom line: Fitbay has foundusers own style photos (or fashion selfies if you prefer) generate far more engagementthan perfectly groomedmarketingshots of clothes or perfectly proportioned models wearing said clothes. Whod have thunk it!?Fitbay started focused on the idea of creating a personalized, fashion-discovery shop  basically like Wanelo or Lyst or something like that. But focused on the whole body double thing and helping you find the right size through crowdsourcing the data, explainsfounder and CEO Christian Wylonis, discussing the rational behind the forthcoming shift.We got a lot of user growth in the beginning but basically saw that the engagement on the product was very low It was possible then to also upload photos but it wasnt the intended behavior. The intended behavior was to add like links to products that you own already and what sizes you had bought and stuff like that.What we saw was that our users were engaging extremely heavily with the selfies. So people responded very positively to seeing other people like themselves  like real photos of people like themselves  wearing products and tagging the brand and the size that they were wearing. It was more socially engaging but also more informative. Instead of just seeing well this product fits me, that didnt really make sense. How did it fit you?Fitbay looks to havestumbled uponthe crux of the tension at the stitched heartof fashion; which is to say that fashion has never just been about fit. Its also about style. How something looks is at least asimportant, and arguably a lot more, than how it fits. And so building a social network wherepeople can browse fashionstyle  by looking at clothes worn onpeople of a similar size and shape to them  starts to look rathercompelling. Given they aregetting a steer on both threads they might like to wear and clothes that mightfit them.Of course Fitbayis by no means the first to figure out peoplelove looking at fashion selfies. Photo-sharing giant Instagram is overflowing with this stuff.But add in Fitbays special sauce  its body double feature that slices user data to surface folkwith a similar size and body shape  then it has a built-in sorting mechanism for fashion selfies thatWylonis argues makes its contentmore relevant to users.We made the decision to scrap most of the whole personalized shopping aspect of the product, and fully focus on the photo feature, he says. What weve been working on behind the scenes for the last four months is creating this Instagram-ish type of product where people add photos of themselves every day  of what theyre wearing  and then share it with their body doubles, and also share it with their friends, and share it with influencers as well.Interestingly, and perhaps rather unusually for a fashion-focused social network, Fitbay has also managed to appeal near equally to both genders thus far  its users are 51 per cent female, 49 per cent male, according to Wylonis. A factor he puts down to itspractical, crowdsourcedapproach (i.e. by focusing on helping users findclothes that fit by showing themwhat clothes fit other similarly sized people, insteadof purely focusing on fashion aesthetics).If I go on my Instagram account, and I search fashion, the top 100 pictures  like 98 of them are women, first of all, and its like usually size zero models and things like that Imagine that if youre a plus size woman, for example, youre used to seeing all these size zero models on Instagram sharing what theyre wearing. Which is maybe nice to look at but its very not relevant.If you sign up to Fitbay as a plus size woman and you see other plus size women being proud of who they are and sharing what fits them thats super encouraging. And then we get the plus size women to share as well. So basically weve created this ecosystem where everybody, regardless of your gender, regardless of your age, regardless of your height or your weight or anything are sharing these fashion selfies.Wylonis says the new version of Fitbay is due in two to threeweeks. The team is also in the midst of raising a Series Afunding round, and hopeful of closing that by the end of the summer.Its not breaking out active users at this stage but says registered users are now more than 200,000, withusage growing30xthis year (albeit from a small base).And while Wylonis had previously talked about aiming for a million users by now when last we spoke (this time last year), which was clearly overly optimistic, the team can chalk uplessons learntabout the powerof theselfie as an engagement mechanism  giving them one tellingmetric fordoubling down onphoto-sharing now.The issue wasnt so much that people werent uploading [content before], because actually they were uploading quite a lot of the products, but what we saw was that people werent engaging with it. If I uploaded a product photo of something I am wearing, you wouldnt interact with that  because its not really social and its not really relatable. But as soon as its me, actually taking a selfie of me wearing that concrete product that was a lot more engaging, addsWylonis. The engagement was something like 5x more than just the product photos.If Fitbays fully photo-focused pivot succeeds in sustaining engagement and growing user numbersWylonis says the long term aim is to build aplatform where fashion brands can communicate with relevant users, which would sew inamore valuable threadto an affiliate sales business model.We hope to become a platform for brands to get a communication channel out  in that way kind of in the same way that Facebook implemented Pages We believe that we can become a super relevant communication platform for fashion brands and retailers, he adds. But thats way in the future.