James Park is on a roll. Best known as the co-founder and CEO of Fitbit, his company went public on June 18  and things couldnt have gone more smoothly. Fitbit is now worth $9 billion despite facing tough competition.It seems like nothing can stop the companys fitness-tracking devices. When Fitbit announced that it would go public, the company planned to raise around $350 million by pricing its shares between $14 to $16. But it ended up offering its shares for $20.If your initial share price is too low, you leave money on the table. If its too high, you risk looking at your shares tanking quickly after going public. So was Fitbit too ambitious? Absolutely not. Shares soared more than 50 percent on the day of its IPO, breaking the $30 barrier minutes after the start of trading (NYSE:FIT).And its not just a one-day success. Fitbit is now trading around $43.63 less than two months after its IPO  a whooping 118 percent increase compared to the $20 offer price. The company now has a solid lineup of fitness trackers, covering every price point between $60 and $250.This doesnt mean that everything will be fine for Fitbit. The company is facing important challenges  consumer electronics heavyweights such as Apple are now releasing smartwatches with promising fitness-tracking features. Its hard to say whether dedicated fitness-tracking devices will survive smartwatches.For all these reasons, were excited to tell you that Fitbits James Park will speak onstage at TechCrunch Disrupt SF, which takes place September 21-23. Its a pivotal moment for the company, and we cant wait to have Parks take on it.Before co-founding Fitbit, Park was a co-founder of Windup Labs, which was acquired by CNET in 2005. He also co-founded Epesi Technologies and worked for Morgan Stanley to develop trading software.As a reminder, Fitbit was a finalist at TC50 in 2008 (TC50 eventually became TechCrunch Disrupt). This time, Park wont be pitching the company in our Battlefield competition, though. He will join our lineup of stellar speakers, including Cowboy Ventures founder Aileen Lee, whocoined the phrase unicorn,Y Combinator President Sam Altman and legendary venture capitalist Vinod Khosla.To hear all these excellent speakers and more at Disrupt SF at San Franciscos historic Pier 70, purchase tickets (at special early bird prices) right here.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.