If youve ever glancedat your wrist and wondered why so many tech companies arevying for such a relativelysmall strip of flesh, chances are youre not thinking big enough. And youre definitely not thinking like a VC.Wearables is one of these  like the Internet, like cloud, like roboticsvery, very large horizontal markets. It literally encompasses huge segments of the population for huge functionalities, saidTrue Ventures Jon Callaghan, during an on stage interview here at TC Disrupt SF. We dont really see that very often in venture capital, so I think this is one of the most exciting categories and frankly computingplatforms thats out there right now.The Fitbit vision and frankly the mission is much broader than any one specific device being pitted against another. It truly is to enable people to lead healthier lifestyles, added Callaghan.Hewas speaking during a fireside chat with TCs John Biggs and Fitbit CEO and co-founder James Park. True Ventureswas an early Fitbit investor, participating in Fitbitsfirst external funding round back in 2008  and cashing out handsomely this June when the companywent public.Fitbits journey is the stuff that entrepreneurdreams are made on.From its software-focused founders original decision to step off piste to buildhardware after beinginspired by theNintendo Wii  we didnt know anything about hardware at the time in hindsight it was probably something completely dumb for us to do, said Park  topitching their first prototype at TC 50 back in 2008, when they demoeda circuit board stuck inside a glued together DIY balsa wood case. To the big one: this years IPO, which pulledsome $358 million into the companys coffers.These days, of course,the tech space is lousy with all sorts of wearables. And very large players like Applehave their own hyper-polished bets. But Fitbits Park is not concerned about all this competition  even that oh-so-shiny wristwear being designed in Cupertino.I think observers and press actually like to view almost every market as some kind of life and death battle  winner takes all. But the health and fitness category is a pretty large and diverse opportunity, he argued. Consumers spend over $200 billion on health and fitness products and services. So theres going to be a lot of different companies that win in different bits of this market.For us and Apple, we dont see ourselves as directly competitive today. And the numbers show it. Year over year our revenue tripled towards $400 million last quarter. The guidance that we gave analysts forour last earnings call was $1.7 billion in revenue this year, so were doing incredibly well. And I think consumers like the fact that were really focused on the category.One specific characteristicofthe U.S. market thats helping driving coins towardsFitbits coffersis high health insurance costs.It was a big win for us, notedPark, referring to a recent deal withretailer Targetwhich will offer Fitbits to its 335,000 employees. Corporate wellness is a big thing. In the U.S. in particular health insurance costs is a big thing.Companies are looking for any way  piece of technology  to help their employees get healthier.In terms of the specifics of Fitbit standing out in a sweaty crowd, Park emphasized the variety in itsproduct portfolio as one part of itsstrategy, along with a focus on core consumerissueslike battery life.People trust our products, he said. We have a broad range of products at different price-points, different styles, cross platform compatibility, we have a lot of focus on battery life which also matters in this category. So theres a lot of different ways we try to cater to consumer needs.I think what people overlook too is the power of the software and the social network thats behind Fitbit, addedCallaghan, discussing the importance of branding and ecosystemin the fitnesscategory. Fitbits probably one of the largest fitness-focused social networks in the world.In fitness Ive been an investor in the fitness category for a very long time  its very, very challenging to have a brand that is both high performance for athletes in the performance activity and also really approachable to everyone.Fitbits done a remarkable job opening up this category to this enormous chunk of the market. Both at the high end but also with different form factors and price points.Not many companies in history have done that. Nike is one example. So its very challenging to do that in this category. I think its a great testament to their brand and their vision, he added.So what should budding hardware entrepreneurs be thinking as they dream about building the next Fitbit? Have a mission, really, really believe and do something very, very challenging, saidCallaghan. I always say hardware is the double black diamond of startups. Its not the easy path. Its not for the faint of heart. Doing something round the edge of a category, not interesting at all. Reinvent a category. Think about 10 and 20 years, as hard as that is. Thats what gets us excited.