Flickr today is rolling out a revamped version of its website, software applications for desktop and mobile, as well as its search service, in whats perhaps the biggest update since the companys decision to increase users free storage space on its photo-sharing site to 1 TB back in 2013.The new series of upgrades are focused on making every aspect of the service easier to use and more efficient, including uploads, edits, organization, search and sharing. Some of the more notable changes include the addition of auto-tagging and image recognition capabilities, the latter of which will now see Flickr competing more directly with Googles photo service, Google+ Photos.These new features have been in development for some time, as Flickr first realized that it would need to roll out better tools for its end users following the announcement of the free terabyte of storage, which the company claims led to a large uptake in user sign-ups. The company now claims to have 100 million members on its service.In many cases, the changes address concerns users have had with the aging service, whose development had lagged for years following its acquisition by Yahoo and the subsequent departure of its founders. Under CEO Marissa Mayers regime, however, Flickr finally began to receive more attention, beginning with the initial revamp in 2013, and followed by the rollout of updated mobile applications.Todays upgrades are the first big release to arrive since Mayers shuffles to Yahoos leadership team, which included bringing in new Flickr heardJeff Bonforte, previously the CEO of email startup Xobni which Yahoo acquired a couple of years prior.Nearly every aspect to Flickrs service has been updated today, beginning with the way that users upload photos to Flickrs cloud. The company is releasing new desktop software applications for both Mac and Windows which allow users to upload photos from their PC, SD cards, external hard drives, and other devices. As the uploads are taking place, the new photos are immediately displayed in Flickrs new Camera Roll view on its website and apps, which now serves as the sites new interface for interacting with your photos.The photos are also automatically synced across all devices, de-duped, and marked as private until you specify otherwise.A Camera Roll in the cloud is how the features Product Lead Aditya Kashyap describes Flickrs updated interface. Outside of search, its the area thats received the most attention in terms of added features and functionality. The idea is to give users an improved toolset that allows them to more easily organize and edit photos, Kashyap says, and it offers a number of different viewing options for filtering and sorting photos, as well as organizing them, ahead of sharing them more publicly.For instance, the Camera Roll lets you view your photos by either the date uploaded or the date taken, and then groups photos into separate sections based on their timestamps. That way you can easily share all your photos from a particular timeframe with just a click. You can also click to select photos to share, or even use your mouse to draw a box around a group of photos  a feature that can speed up the selection process quite a bit. And you can now download multiple photos as .zip file.With a group of photos selected, you can edit the entire batchs metadata, like the date taken, the photos privacy (how visible it is on Flickrs service), the licensing, and other items. You can also share that batch of photos via email, Instagram, Facebook and
more, as well as add identifying tags.Of course, manually tagging photos is something of a holdover from a prior era of photo-sharing  one that made more sense before users carried around smartphone cameras in their pocket and used apps (like Flickrs) to automatically upload every photo from their device to an online storage site.In world where youre uploading thousands of photos, its impractical to expect everyone to tag their photos, notes Andrew Stadlen, Director of Product Management, for Flickrs search and image recognition technology.Thats why the new Magic View feature is one the better additions arriving today. This feature, as with Flickrs upgraded search service, takes advantage of computer vision technology to automatically recognize whats in your photos and tag them accordingly. That is, Flickr now knows if your photos are landscapes, screenshots, text photos, photos of people, children, animals, vehicles, architecture, sunsets, water, and much more. At launch, there are 60 some categories like this that Flickr can identify, but the team has built thousands which are still in testing.While not perfect, the algorithms used are continually improving, Stadlen explains. For example, if Flickr misidentifies a motorcycle as a bicycle and a user corrects that, the service will learn from that input so it wont make the same mistake again. The technology is always improving, he says.Built on the same computer vision technology that also powers services like Google+ Photos, the advantage to Flickrs image recognition tech is that its actually built into the products user interface. While many people today dont realize that you can search your Google+ Photos for terms like sunsets or New York or kids, these sorts of things are actually called out in Flickrs new Magic View interface. That is, youre able to click on the left-side navigation to display a particular categorys photos.This same computer vision technology also powers Flickrs new search service, which is another one of the larger improvements. Because Flickr is now automatically recognizing photos and adding tags, search is able to return an improved set of results. That means that, as on Google+, users can search for the people, places, and things Flickr can identify. In addition to broader categories, the service is also smarter about understanding word pairings.For example, a search on Flickr before today for pumpkin pie would return a lot of images of just pumpkins. But now, says Stadlen, it can understand that the two words have a different meaning when combined. Flickr is capable of understanding millions of phrases, he says  a huge corpus built off of Wikipedia data. Plus, you can search by other combinations  like type of photo and time frame. For instance: Halloween 2013 and kids.In addition to its image recognition capabilities, Flickr also lets you tap into advanced search tools for searching by various metadata like date taken or uploaded, minimum size, orientation and more. You can also filter search results by style, like minimalist, black and white, shallow depth of field, or patterns. And Flickr lets you search by color, too, using a color picker at the top of the site which can be combined with search terms. That way, you could search for sunset and then filter results by the color of the sky (e.g., orange, pink, red, purple, etc.)One thing Flickr is not yet doing is facial recognition. While the service can identify that photos have faces, it hasnt rolled out the ability to identify whos faces they are at this point.Another big change to search is that its now a unified experience  that is, when you perform any search on Flickr, youre first shown a group of your own photos that match your query, followed by a group of photos from the people you follow on the service, and then everyone elses photos are below. Photos can also be viewed in a justified format or as smaller thumbnails, to make scrolling through large batches quicker.Most of the above changes are also present on Flickrs updated mobile apps rolling out today, except for the Magic View, which is unfortunately web-only for now. The idea is that the mobile apps should offer the same feature set as youd see on the web, in order to offer a seamless experience as you switch between devices.The apps and the desktop website both support simplified sharing. On the web, you can drag your cursor around a group of photos, as noted above, while on mobile, you use your finger to select a group of photos. After making the selection, you can then share to social media or email. One neat feature is that you can expire the sharing link whenever you want, in case you dont want a group of photos accessible indefinitely.In addition to mirroring the feature set introduced on the web, the mobile experience has been redesigned as well, with access to the Camera Roll view, a nav bar that disappears as you scroll, a redesigned feed, and support for non-destructive editing (meaning you can revert back to the original at any time.)While the new features are welcome additions for regular Flickr users, the companys delay to roll out improvements like this  things that have been technically feasible for years  has allowed competitors to establish larger footholds in the photo-sharing market. While Google competes on the image recognition front, Flickr also faces challenges from companies like Apple, Dropbox, Amazon and a plethora of startups which also offer tools for automated uploads, photo organization, edits, sharing and more. Flickr of course still has a large user base, and it no longer has to monetize just by selling additional storage  which gives it an advantage over some. But new tools alone may not be enough for Flickr to recapture the mindshare and momentum it had in its earlier days.