Even though they are a 38-year-old company, FLIR Systems advanced, miniaturized thermal imaging sensors and cameras keep them hip in the world of computer vision where mobile startups are propelling the field. This morning they announced a new productthe Boson Thermal Camera. The Boson is a small thermal camera and can be used for many applications like:There are many more things these cameras can doeven the super-resolution similar to the much internet-maligned CSI zoom in is actually possible through software manipulation of these kinds of cameras according to Movidiuss Jack Dashwood.Regardless of product features, two things interest me about the launch of the Boson (well, besides predator vision because who doesnt love predator vision). Oneis the continued trend inminiaturization and its implications on interactive eyewear. The second isthe fact that the Boson has a processor integrated directly into it. As a trend, this is called System-on-Sensor.MiniaturizationThe Boson is half the size, one tenth the volume, one seventh the weight and twice as power efficientasthe previous model made by FLIR which was called the TAU 2. This miniaturization is made possible by FLIRs partnership with Movidiusthe makers of the new Myriad 2 chip that powers it. Movidiuss tiny 12-core, low power processor (which weve covered before) allows the Boson camera to get much, much smaller.This makes integration into interactive eyewear or other smartglasses/helmets much more efficientand thereby allows those wearables to also become smaller and more efficient themselves. This interests me because smaller, more powerful interactive, heads-updisplays could sell more units and get more use if they are not giant monstrosities you wear on your head.System-on-SensorThis leads to the second trend:System-on-Sensor. Not only are there size benefits by bringing the processor directly into the sensor, thereare new abilities in the sensor itself. The 12 cores on the Myriad 2 chip are fully programmable which means the Boson can directly process images, combine thermal pixel information, or process facial recognition algorithms, directly on the Boson itself, in real-time. This camera doesnt needto offload this processing to another subsystem or tothe cloud.A low power processor like this still has limits to what it can do, for sure, but this is a trend to keep an eye on as it takes the power of IoT (Internet of Things) sensors to a new level where they can network together to complete advanced capabilities on their own.If there is any truth to what Peter Diamandis predicts will be a trillion-sensor economy in the next 10 years or whether infrastructure like this could lead to intelligent, camera-based neural networks that can act on information instead of merely recording it, remains to be seen. But little advances like this could play a part in that possible future.