With the release of iOS 9 last year,Apple introduced support for ad blocking within its Safari web browser. On Sunday, smartphone maker Samsung debutedits own support for content and ad blocking in the default web browser installed on its Android smartphones. The update, which is rolling out now to devices running Android Lollipop or higher, works in a similar way as ad blocking on Apples iOS 9.That is, it allows third-party developers the ability to build apps that that will block distracting and intrusive ads on the mobile web, as well as strip out extra content from web pages, allowing them to load faster and consume less data.These apps are made possible by way of Samsungs newContent Blocker extension API arriving inthe latest version of the Samsung Internet Browser. That means Samsung ownerswill have to be using the companys own browser, not a third-party browser like Google Chrome, in order to take advantage of the new functionality.Thats still a massive potential audience for the technology, however  theGoogle Play Store reports the Samsung browser has over 10 million (but under 50 million) downloads. And this is only those who have sought it out  the app is pre-installed on Samsung devices.However, unlike on iOS where Safari dominates  Net Applications data indicates that Safari has over 34 percent of the mobile browser market  on Android phones, Googles Chrome is still thetop choice. It has a 41.57 percent share of the total market, thanks to its ties with Googles Android OS.The addition of the content blocking APImakes Samsung the first major Android smartphone maker to introduce ad blocking, after Apples ground-shaking announcement that soon saw ad blockers climbing to the top of the App Store charts, and had web publishers concerned about the impacts to their bottom lines.That being said, thefervor around ad blocking has died down in recent weeks, but consumers dissatisfaction with the mobile web and its ad-crammed pages has not. Other initiatives are also underway that take a different angle on making the web more usable on mobile devices, including Googles sped-up, mobile-friendly websites builtby way of its AMP Project. Meanwhile, Facebook now offers Instant Articles on its social network, which are said toload up as much as10 times faster than the mobile web.SoonafterSamsungs announcement, ad blocker makers launched versions of their apps for supported Samsung phones. This includes CrystalandAdblock Fast, which were among thefirst out of the gate. The latter claims over 200,000 users for its app thats also live onChrome, Opera and Safari. It offers seven optimized filtering rules which make websites run, on average, 51 percent faster, the company says.Crystal offers a similar filter list, and blocks tracking technology, malware and social networking annoyances, while also offering users the ability to support sites that conform tothe Acceptable Ads criteria by allowing non-intrusive advertising.Expect more to follow. The question now will be whether or not Samsung owners will rush to install these applications, as the iOS audience once did. Even if they dont show up in droves, the move by Samsung, which had a 22.2 percent share of the smartphone market in 2015, could seeother Android smartphone makers doing the same, as the tech could be seen as a competitive advantage.The longer-term impact, in that case, would hopefully be a web publishing ecosystem that offers more respect for websitevisitors time and attention.