Theres a lot to love about being a venture capitalist. You meet with smart people every day. You make money regardless of whether your investments work. People assume you have smart opinions about things.Strange as it may seem, however, a growing number of illuminati are passing up the chance to work with established firms to do their own thing. Among the newest of them: Avidan Ross, a former private investment company CTO turned angel investor, who says he met with a number of firms about tie-ups before setting out to raise his own $31.4 million fund from mostly high-net-worth individuals. (He announced its closing earlier this month.)Why would anyone pass up the chance to land a plum role with a venture firm thats managing hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars? The overarching reason, of course, is that they can.Often, such potential recruits have already made enough money to gamble on themselves. Think of Aydin Sekut of Felicis Ventures, Manu Kumar of K9 Ventures and dozens of other individuals whove turned themselves into venture capitalists over the last decade.Its also easier than ever for those whohavent yetmade their fortune to raise a fund, particularly given growing mainstream interestin startup deals. Venture capitalist Niko Bonatsosworks for General Catalyst Partners but sees many of his peers taking alternative paths. As he puts it, If someone can [raise and] invest $30 million or $40 million themselves, why wouldnt they do that? Its like, Youre a young guy, you know founders. Heres $10 million. Go invest it.Indeed, the trend away from traditional VC dating back to 2006, with the advent of micro VC  seems to be growing morepronounced, for a few reasons.For one thing, with companies staying private longer, a lot of potential recruits who might otherwise have cashed out are still working inside highly valued companies. In terms of vesting schedules, it doesnt always make sense to leave a job for VC, especially for younger people who havent been entrepreneurs or executives and havent had a major liquidity event, saysBonatsos.Also making the equation harder: Venture firms often want to pursue young consumer experts who started at companies like Facebook and Twitter. Butwith capital continuing to rush into startups, never has there been a better time for them to launch another, new company themselves.Why work for a piece of 20 percent to 30 percent carry instead ofa huge piece of your own company? asks Bonatsos.Yet another factor is simply thewide-sweeping cultural shift were seeing. Its no secret that millennials dont view the workplace in the same way as previous generations. In fact, Intuit has published a report predicting that fully 40 percent of U.S. workers will be self-employed by 2020.Some wont have a choice, but others are deliberatelyavoiding traditional companies. As Patricia Nakache, a general partner at Trinity Ventures who spends a lot of time thinking about on-demand opportunities, recently told us: Millennials are much less receptive to the monolithic education or work-experience notion that, Im going to have this job with a single company for 10 or 12 years or take all my classes from one-four year institution, she says. Theyre really beginning to question the boundaries of those experiences.Thats saying nothing of the impracticality of joining a venture firm if you want to focus more narrowly on seed-stage investments, says Hunter Walk, a former product manager at Google who co-founded the seed-stage firm Homebrew in early 2013 with Satya Patel, a former Twitter VP who also spent time in both venture firms and at Google earlier in his career.By sheer dint of joining a venture firm, Walkargues, the firmwill need more capital to rationalize the newest GPsseat at the table, which makes playing in early rounds harder and harder.Venture firms probably arent losing too much sleep over this shift.Though recruiting top candidates may be harder than in the past, VCsstill have plenty of leverage when it comes to attracting talent, starting with their established brands. As Walk readily concedes, brand matters.At Google, for example, People cared a lot more about the google.com part than the Hunter part when emailing, he says, laughing. Being able to draw on that sort of brand name and these big service arms that can help run events and do industry analysis  there are certainly days when aspects of that are appealing, he says.There are also many more potential candidatesthan available jobs at top venture firms.It mirrors many other industries in Silicon Valley, notes Josh Elman, a former operator at both Facebook and Twitter who is today a partner at Greylock Partners. Yahoo has more trouble recruiting than Google. Some companies just have more success when it comes to pulling in strong candidates, he observes.Perhaps the biggest reason for most firms to rest easy, though, adds Elman, is that whilemore people than ever are setting up shop for themselves, it will always be the case that there are more joiners than founders.If youre a founder, you should start a company, he says. But if youre a joiner, like me, you find great, iconic opportunities and help them be better.