The initial goal of self-driving cars isto make them as good as human drivers  but Ford has another trick up its sleeve to nudge things to the next level. By using Lidar, Fordrecently showed that itsautonomous vehicles can drive in complete darkness without human intervention. In the process, they remind us that the self-driving car is about a lot more than as-good-as-humans: Its about harnessingtech to make cars far safer and smarter than human drivers.Self-driving cars arent a new phenomenon, but one key advantage thattook a long time to sink inis the realization that by letting a robot drive a car, you arent trying to create a human to drive a car for you. It goes far beyond that: The field of robotics has a lot more toys in its tool chest than those of a mere human.A car wearing night-vision goggles. Now I really have seen everything.This jumped into crisp relief especially well in Fords recent test at its Arizona Proving Ground. The company rigged up one of its self-driving cars with Lidar technology, which combines lasers with 3D mapping and distance-sensing technology. Lidar is, in essence, radar done with laser.Thanks to Lidar, the test cars arent reliant on the sun shining, nor cameras detecting painted white lines on the asphalt, says Jim McBride, Ford technical leader for autonomous vehicles. Lidar allows autonomous cars to drive just as well in the dark as they do in the light of day.Im sorry, Dave, I cant do that.  Captain HAL, reporting for duty.Inside the car, I could feel it moving, but when I looked out the window, I only saw darkness, recountsWayne Williams, a Ford research scientist and engineer who rode in the car with the computer at the proverbial steering wheel, a feat that shows extraordinary faith in your own technology.By using available technologies like computer vision, Lidar, radar, GPS, traffic reports and other data sources, seeing autonomous cars combining all its resources for increased safety is very exciting. Whereas a human driver is limited to his eyes and ears when driving, an autonomous car can  and should  use whatever sensory data it has available.The video in particular highlights that it is still early days, but it also serves as a reminder that we are rollinginto the future, autonomous inch by autonomous inch.