A key part ofRdios new $3.99 plan for cost conscious consumers taking a baby step towards music streaming services is theimportant caveat that this new service ischeaper outside of the U.S.. In India, it will retail for 60 rupees (around 94 cents) per month.Suddenly the package, which is limited to25 track downloads (popular in India due tolimited data packages andvarying internet quality)and aradio service on mobile, starts to make more sense. This is an emerging market play, not necessarily something that will take off in the U.S. and other Western markets.Thats important because,unlessyouve been sitting under a rock, youll be aware that India is The Big New Opportunity for technology firms.Just 90 million people  less than 10 percent of the countrys billion-plus population enjoyed internet access in 2010, but that figure is tipped to rocket to 500 million by 2020, spurred by the sale of smartphones.India shipped64.3 million smartphones in Q4 2014 and, while the marketdeclined for the first time due to left over inventory,smartphone adoptionis poised to grow like noother country worldwide. (Chinas smartphone shipments fellfor the first time in sixyears last quarter.)That rush to mobile has predominantly benefitted homegrown companies thus far IndiasFlipkart and Snapdeal feature prominently in Forbes annual unicorn listfor billion dollar valued tech companies but the country is increasingly a focus for global tech firms. (Amazon, for example, invested $2 billion in India last year.)E-commerce has been a benefactor of Indias digitization, but music streamingis anotherareathat is heating up. The reasons are different to the U.S., however.1. India leapfrogged the desktop, mobile is the primary method ofinternet access for tens, if not hundreds, of millions in the country.2. The smartphone is the singleentertainment hub formany Indians.Music and movies are natural areas of interest for people. Thats why the addition of the humble FM radio to feature phones was a major move, and why manygo to greatlengths to downloadmusic to even the most basic phones.Those who do download music will typically do so using pirate sites or illegal methods  often without realizing. And that really is the biggest rival to Rdio  which entered India in January after acquiring local player Dhinghana  and domestic competitorsSaavn and Gaana.But it isnt just mainstream consumers who download content illegally, even tech savvy Indians do too:@jonrussell The biggest irony is that all my classmates are computer engineering students, and still one of them pay. Piracy rules. Harshil Shah (@HarshilShah1910) May 14, 2015@jonrussell One guy in the group has a 20Mbps connection, and he downloads whatever folks ask and sends via Superbeam. Doubt it gets easier. Harshil Shah (@HarshilShah1910) May 14, 2015One of the key goalsfor legitimate streaming services is to make their products easier to use than piracy, and cheap enough for the price-consciouspublic in India.Thats easier said than done and freemium offerings have been the preferred option to date.Talking to music streaming executivesin India, there is some doubt as to whether Rdios approach willwork when thefreemium approach hasturned millions of users of ad-supported,free services into paying customers without an immediate price barrier to deter them.Likewise, for those who do wish to pay, competitors offer many more features for just a little more money.Saavns packages for desktop and mobile start from 120 INR ($1.80) or $0.08 per day, while Gaana is priced from99 INR ($1.50).For now, Rdio and Australia-headquartered Guvera are the only international streaming services present in India. Things could get even more interesting as and when Spotify and Deezerdecide toenter India. That seems bound to happen sooner rather than later  its hard to resist the potential of a billion-plus population once the market, although theyare likelywaiting until the market has matured sufficiently.Update:We absolutely want to make Spotify available in India as we do across the rest of Asia, but theres nothing to report as of now, a Spotify spokesperson told TechCrunch.Meanwhile, a Deezer representative said: We haveno immediate plans to enter India but, that said, India is a very interesting music market and we definitely have our eye on it.