One of the challenges with clothes shopping online is that it doesnt mirror the real-world experience where you can try on items for fit. And even though a number of todays retailers offer free returns, theres nothing quite as disheartening as ordering a piece online, onlytofind it wont work for your body type, size or shape after it arrives. A new startup called Fovo fromshapewear linedMondaines founder Kiana Anvaripour wants to change that. Its recently launchede-commerce website lets customersshop by body shape instead of just size.Anvaripour has extensive experience in the fashion industry, having worked with designers, including Roland Mouret and PREEN, before moving into senior positions with luxury lingerie brands like Madame V and Letters of Marque. She then launched her own shapewear lingerie, dMondaine, in 2011, which is sold at places like Neiman Marcus, Barneys, Selfridges, Harvey Nichols, and NET-A-PORTER.This background has given her a wealth of understanding about womens bodies and how they prefer to shop.The new startup is also advised by Zappos founder Nick Swinmurn, who, along with Anvaripour,invested a small amount of seed funding into the company to get it off the ground.ExplainsAnvaripour, a bigproblem with shopping online is that its hard to really know what will work on your own body without trying things on.Brands cut differently  you can be a four in one brand, and an eight in another. Sizing is not uniform. And whats missing at the top of the purchase funnel is shape. And it really dictates these other things. Its this macro category thats very much underserved, she says.When Anvaripour began to research the issue further, she discovered that 7 out of 10 women today still prefer to shop in store  and thats often precisely because of this desire to try on items before buying.On Fovo.com, the goal is to offer a personalized shopping experience for each customer.That begins with having women answer five short questions about their body shape and style. However, instead of focusing on the negative  what body parts do you want to hide?, for example, Fovo asks you which parts you want to accentuate. Combined with an understanding about your taste in clothing, the sitethen offers you a feed of unique suggestions.Fovo today features clothing frommore than300 major retailers  both pricier and less so  including Nordstrom, NET-A-PORTER, H&M, Neiman Marcus, Dillards, Saks Fifth Avenue, Forever 21, Nasty Gal and others.Notably, it also offers a wide variety of sizes  all the way up to size 32.It was our mission to have all women feel comfortable on Fovo, saysAnvaripour.The brands inventory is manually annotated before being added to the site, so that women understand why garments are being selected for them. For example, a long v-neck top could elongate the body or a boat neck could balance out larger hips. Its as if Anvaripours understanding of fabric and fit has been downloaded from her mind, then used by Fovos algorithm to automate a series of fashion recommendations.As women shop the site, they can add items from different stores to a universal cart, then checkout directly on Fovo.com, which simplifies the experience. A majority of the brands Fovo works with also offer free shipping and free returns, the founder notes.Fovo currently generates revenue through an affiliate model, but the eventual goal is to introduce other means of monetization, like advertising.In the nearerfuture, the company is working to expand its community and social features, which today includes a forum for chatting with other shoppers, and will soon include other user-generated content  like photos of customers wearing the items in question, for instance.Fovo launched into beta in April and then made its official public debut earlier this month. While its too soon to talk about users and sales,Anvaripour says theyre already seeing more customersthan expected, and users are spending over an hour and 10 minutes on the site.Its really resonating with users, she says.Women just want to feel safe and comfortable and we want to serve them.