Foxconns proposed acquisition of Sharp has hit a snag, just hours after Japan-based Sharp announced that it had agreed to the buyout, which is estimated at around $6.2 billion.The Wall Street Journal reports that,despite Sharps confirmation, Foxconn has not signedan agreement and has put the deal on hold because it harbors concerns over Sharps financial future. The Journal cites sources who claim that Foxconn is evaluating a 100-point list in the hopes that it can revive the deal.We already notified Sharp on the same day [before Sharp held its board meeting on Thursday] that our side had to clarify the contents,the company told the Journalin astatement. We have to postpone the signing before both sides can reach an agreement. We hope to clarify it quickly and to bring this deal to a successful conclusion.The glitch is an embarrassment for Sharp, which had confirmed a deal  approved unanimously by its board  just hours earlier.The deal  if completed  would be the largest acquisition of a Japanese company from an overseas purchaser. Sharp disclosed that it actually reject a Japan-based bid from state-backedInnovation Network Corp, which hadproposed splitting Sharp and its display business, and integrating the latter into Japan Display, an LCD joint venture between Sony, Toshiba, and Hitachi.Sharpdisclosed that Foxconn had agreed in invest in multiple areas of its business, including its OLED screen segment. Sharp said its plans to increase its production of OLED screens, which are increasingly replacing LEDs thanks to better performance, to 90 million 5.5-inch screens per year by 2019. That output volume is estimated to worth around 260 billion yen, or $2.3 billion. Sharp said it will also create productsaround the Internet of things, and in particularcloud-based services for itsconsumer products, and developnew camera modules for smartphones and cars.Sharp has been in various stages of financial trouble over the past few years, but the company still has a visible consumer electronics business  most notable in TVs  and it supplies a range of components for leading tech companies . The latter part is where Foxconns interest almost certainly lies, particularly since Sharp is a top producer of display panels, which happens to be one area where Foxconn (also known as Hon Hai Precision) outsources parts from third-parties.Potentially bringing its own parts to the table, should it acquire Sharp, could be beneficial to Foxconn on a number of levels. First, itscheaper to source your own parts thanpay market rate to third parties who currently supply them. Also,the arrangement could favor Apple  Foxconns most important client  because Foxconns panels currently comefrom companies like Samsung and LG, which sell components and run consumer businesses that directly rival Apples smartphones and tablets. Thus using display panels from Foxconn-owned Sharp increases Foxconns (already significant) margins on each Apple devicesold, and helps keep Apples money away from its competitors.Beyond that, Foxconn has also branched out into electronics under its own brand, including TVs which retail in 7-Eleven stores in its native Taiwan. Clearly there are synergies here with Sharp in the TV business, and potential other consumer segmentslike smartphones.A closed deal would end years of Foxconn flashing admiring glances at Sharp.Four years ago, itcame close to securing a 10 percent investment in the Japanese firm, only for the deal to fall through, while Foxconn CEO Terry Gou made a $617 million (personal) investment in a Sharp subsidiary in 2012 in an effort to move potential collaborations forward.Note: The original version of this post has beenupdated to reflect developments.