FreedomPop, the startup that is tryingto steal users away frommobile carriers by offeringfree, basic cellular voice and data plans, is adding another string to its bow today: the company is launching a low-cost WiFi service, where a user gets unlimited use of, and automatic sign-on to, 10 million hotspots across the U.S. for $5.The service is potentially a shakeup for carriers that have been rolling out LTE services priced at a premium, and seems to fit usage patterns around already: FreedomPop cites figures that say90% of data consumed by mobile users is over Wi-Fi.Stephen Stokols, the CEO and co-founder, tells me that while the initial rollout will cover 10 million hotspots  approximately 120 million people and between 65% and 90% of the top 100 metros, which he says means NFL, NBA, Pro sport cities  the number will go up to 25 million by the end of Q1.The initial full coverage map is illustrated above.The Wi-Fi service, which can work across a users multiple devices,will be available first through FreedomPops Android app with aniPhone app in the works and out in a couple of weeks. Itwill take longer to get the auto-connect functionality on par with Googles, he says. And, summoning thespirit that makes FreedomPop potentially a threat to incumbents, he adds, iOS is far more closed, whereas Google has committed to make Wi-Fi as seamless as possible, something else that should scare carriers. No plans for a Windows Phone app, he added.This will be the first time that FreedomPophas added a Wi-Fi plan to its service. [Weve] been waiting to get something compelling on a standalone basis and ensuring that the Wi-Fiexperience works like cellular (auto-connect) vs rushing an experience that turns users off, Stokols says. He adds that the carrier is on pace to break 1 million users this year, adding in the hundreds of thousands per quarter.FreedomPop is not specifying who is providing itsWi-Fibecause of restrictions in their contracts, but as a measure of where you will be able to access it, Stokols tells me that large retailer locations like McDonalds, Starbucks, Burger King and Best Buy are all included. (Note: this seems to imply that there are at least two companiespartnering with FreedomPop, since Google provides Wi-Fi to Starbucks, and Burger King and McDonalds both appear to be AT&T shops.)We have been told that Boingo is not among the partners, although if the number of hotspots isrising later this quarter, it could become one down the line.Providers are worth wondering about for at least acouple ofreasons. The firstis that if its a carrier with which you already have a Wi-Fi hotspot plan, you may be less inclined to make the switch to FreedomPop. Andthe second is that some providers appear to be significantly faster than others, according to recent research from OpenSignal.Up to now, FreedomPops business model has beenbased around offering a free, but pretty limited service(200 minutes of calls, 500 texts, 500MB data/month). To get voicemail, or to increaseyour allowances, you pay. Stokols says that he sees the Wi-Fi offering not as an extension of this model, but as a standalone service, another way of bringing on new customers who are either with other carriers or no carrier at all.This is [an] opportunity to deliver value regardless of what carrier the user ison, he says. For example, for $5 per month, you can cut your cellular data bill in half. Youd only need a 300 MB plan for that 5-15% of time when not on WiFi.The other target market? Those who have phones but no connectivity.We have had hundreds of thousands of abandoned phones'  (phones not attached to a cellular network) that people try to bring to FreedomPop but because they are not onSprint, we cant activate cellular. Thats because FreedomPop works by way of an MVNO deal with Sprint. This gives us the opportunity to provide a cost-effective service to these budget users and give more value to an abandoned phone. He estimates that there are 200 millionabandoned phones in the U.S. today.Nevertheless, while the company is projecting profit on the service, he admits that the margins will be thin.LA-based FreedomPop has raised just over $19 million from investors that include Skype founder Niklas Zennstroms Atomico Ventures, DCM and Skypes first investors Mangrove. The company is also working on extending its service to Europe, planned for this year.