FreedomPop is taking another step ahead today in its bidto build out a globalmobile business based on free voice, text and data bundles and upsellingadditionalservices. Amid months of M&A rumors, thestartup has raised another $30 million in funding  money that CEO and co-founder Stephen Stokols says will help FreedomPop grow its businesses independently.We had a lot of interest, six bids fromcarriers and a large tech company, but we ended up turning all of them down, he says. It would be premature to sell at this point. The aim for 18 month-old FreedomPopnow is to build a billion-dollar company, and heis already planning to raise another $50 million  $100 million in the next yearto do that, if it doesnt decide to sell then.This latestSeries B round was led by Partech Ventures, with participation from existing backers DCM Capital and Mangrove. (The valuation is not being revealed but my guess is that it is in the lowhundreds of millions. Wed heard from a source that a potential acquisition would have been made at a valuation of around$250 million, butan investment would come in at lessthan that.)FreedomPop addsthat it has also picked up an unnamed strategic investor  not one of the companies that has been trying to buy it, Stokols tells me, but a U.S. companythat will help FreedomPop on the hardware side. (FreedomPop sells a range of phones and dongles for its services, so thiscould be about improving how it buys in devices, orthis could be someone who will preload the FreedomPopapp, for example.)In any event, the additional investor is likely going to get announced in a few weeks, and could potentially bump up the round sizeby another $5 million.This latest round of funding will be spread across both the U.S. and newer international parts of its business. Currently the company is growing its revenues at around 25% each quarter and is projecting to reach Ebitda profitability later this year, with gross service margins currently at around 50%.Stokols tells me FreedomPop remainson track to have 1 million users in the U.S. by the end of this year, and in the meantime its also pressing on in its international efforts. In May, the company selected theUK as its first market to roll out servicesin Europe, in a SIM-only, bring-your-own-device MVNO partnership with UK carrier Three, along with Jetsetter, a new multi-country roaming plan. There will be another carrier added to the mix, and more markets, soon. (Indeed, Stokols happens to bein the UK this week.)As we have described before, FreedomPops freemium model  giving away bundles of data, voice and text and upselling onextra data, voice minutes, voicemail and other services  is not like that of your average cut-price MVNO.Most virtual operators essentially buy minutes, messages and data in bulk from carriers for their services and then resell these to their customers, which translates into thin margins for those MVNOs. FreedomPop, however, buys only data which it then uses to offer the rest of its services (for example, voice as VoIP). Instead of prebuying in bulk, it negotiates different usage tiers and pays only for what its customers use.While this is a new approach to the MVNO model, others are already trying to replicate it in some form, for example RingPlus from Sprint.Interestingly, some of the new investment will be used to beef upone of the areas where FreedomPop has traditionally economized: customer service. FreedomPop doesnt have a physical retail operation, and most sales occur online.We acquirecustomers in the U.S.for 1/100th of what the carriers pay, Stokols told me last month. He says that its customer acquisition costs are under $5 where most carriers are $380/user.Now the company plans to invest to change this: Part of the investment will be in customer service, he says. We have been having a nothing customer experience, and now we want to have a positive experience. Hes not being very specific on what this will entail, but it sounds like FreedomPop will be following the model that ithas taken with how it buys data from carriers: We want our customer service people to be ahead of demand.Its tempting to wonder who might have been trying to buy FreedomPop among those six offers Stokols said the company had. Companies that would have made sense include cable operatorsthat have wanted to grow their mobile customer bases, or carriers that are looking at ways of targeting different consumer tiers or expanding internationally. Equally, tech companies like Microsoft, looking at ways to buildout their mobile user baseand provide services to rival efforts like Google Fi, could also be in the mix.As part of this round, Mark Menell from Partech is joining the board.We are excited to have FreedomPop as one of the first investments in our new growth equity fund. We believe the company has an incredibly disruptive business model for todays large and fast-growing global telecoms industry, he said in a statement. This is also largely a bet on FreedomPops outstanding management team, who we knew we could partner with from the first time we met.