Google was caught by surprise. Last week, nearly 100 employees of Frances equivalent of the IRS (Direction gnrale des Finances) raided Googles office in Paris for a tax non-compliance investigation. French financial prosecutor liane Houlette told Europe 1 that her team had been secretly working on this raid for nearly a year. Google may be facing a $1.8 billion fine (1.6 billion).Houlette and her team have been a bit paranoid with this investigation. Given Googles size and reach, the team has been extra cautious, as Google couldnt know about an upcoming raid in its office in Paris. You dont want the company to start obfuscating files before you even have a chance to look at them.Thats why most people at the DGF didnt even know Houlette was getting serious about this investigation. Her team used the codename Tulip when talking about Google, referring to the flowers in the Netherlands.Weve dealt [with this investigation] in complete secret given this companys business, Houlette told Europe 1. In order to protect this secret, we decided that we would give another name to Google and never pronounce Googles name  Tulip. And weve worked offline on this investigation for nearly a year. We used one computer, but only as a word processor.The end result is terabytes of data. Its going to take months, or even years to process all this data, according to Houlette.Many have asked whether France is willing to do a tax deal like in the U.K. French finance minister Michel Sapin told Reuters that there wont be any deal. Houlette went even further and said that Frances legislation doesnt work this way and theres no way the French government could make a deal with Google.So it leaves one possibility  a trial. Things could get ugly as this trial could go on and on for years. It would hurt Frances image when it comes to doing business in France. Houlette is also aware of that, so lets see if the financial prosecutor can find an alternative that wont be a deal nor a trial.Frances investigation against Googles tax schemes started in 2011. According to Google, the company doesnt do much business in France. It has an office and a marketing team, but no sales team. Thats why most of Google Frances revenue goes to Googles European HQ in Ireland and the company doesnt pay much tax in France.Google then sends most of Google Ireland Limiteds money to Google Netherlands Holdings BV, so that this other subsidiary can send the money to Google Ireland Holdings.Despite the name, Google Ireland Holdings cost center is in Bermuda and is called Google Bermuda Unlimited. And thats how you end up making money in France while keeping your bank account in Bermuda, where corporate tax doesnt even exist.Many European companies use more or less the same process to lower tax rates  and its legal. But the main issue with Google in France is that the DGF thinksGoogle is doing more than just marketing in France. Some Irish contracts could be French and could be subject to French taxes. Hence the investigation.