
Roger Williams is the CMO of Maxifier.The recent flurry of ad-tech acquisition deals clearly demonstrates that the industry is shifting its focus to developing solutions that support premiuminventory. While all theattentionhas traditionally been around solving for RTB and the programmatic trading of low-value, non-guaranteed inventory, things are changing.Today, its about going where the money is, and that means bringing equilibrium with theshift topremium. Theres a huge opportunity right now to take non-digital spend into digital, with the right technology to support brand advertising on premium inventory.And just what is at stake? Advertisers will spend nearly $600 billion globally this year,and only $170.5 billion of that in digital (eMarketer).Themajority will be brand-focused; the real opportunity is tapping into this spend.In digital, brands are in search of safe, brand-friendly environments where theyre associated with other high-quality brands, not simply direct-response advertisers; premium inventory provides exactlythis for them.Sweetening the pot arelarger, impactful andmore visually attractive ad formats (thinkIAB Rising Stars) which are now available and theemergence of thesorts of metrics that brands find appealing. Measurement has long been a thorn in the industrys side, with brands forced to accept the same metrics used for reportingbydirect-response marketers. Weve known for several years that CTR (click-thrurate) is entirely the wrong metric for digital, yet ithascontinued to dominate whats offered to brands.No more.We now havemoremeaningfulmetrics designed to appeal to brands: in-view rate and in-view time; universal interaction rate; interaction times, etc.That quality environment and experience is increasingly winning brand spend over from non-digital, yet the industry is still missing outonopportunities in a few key areas. Nielsens research in conjunction with the CMO Councillast yearrevealed significantly more brand campaigns were being run thantraditional direct-response campaigns, anduncoveredan increase in spend on branding. However, increasing purchasing efficiencywasa key factorhighlighted in the report that would persuade them tomove budget to digital.Now that the right environments and measurements exist for brands, the technology is getting there as well. The importance of supporting premiuminventory with improved workflows,and making the purchase of it quicker and more efficient,are nowbeing realized.An emerging way tomake buying digital easier and remove complexities is to tackle the growing desire for fewer vendors, integrations and user interfaces. Advertisers want the ability to purchase quickly and easily, for both non-guaranteed andguaranteed inventory, and we nowincreasinglyhave the technology to apply programmatic trading to premium inventory.Rubicon scooped up several companies at the end of last year,enhancing their ability to deal in premium direct. AppNexus has also made a host of acquisitions in areas such as viewability, ad serving and, most recently, forecasting.Adobe, Oracle, Facebook, AppNexusand other major players are building out their tech stacks to appeal to all elements of the advertising food chain, but its nolongerabout premium versus remnant inventory at all. Rather, the focus now is on bringing them together to increase overall yields for the publisher.Sure, there are questions about whether a reputation as aplayer in the remnant space might hinder a tech companys ability to move into premium. Will premium publishers see you as someone who can help, or is that historical low-value focus going to be a hindrance?Thatremains to be seen, but what weareseeing now are a host of big players making their moves, laying the groundwork for the rest of the industry to follow suit.In Europe, premium publishers are joining forces for increasedreach, scale and control. The Pangaea Alliancehas CNN International, The Guardian, Financial Times, Reuters and The Economist providing access to their respective inventories, as well. The AOP (Association of Online Publishers) premium publisher alliance, for example, brings together TIME, Telegraph Media Group, Haymarket Media Group and more. By partnering, theyre able to offergreater scale(which can be challenging in European markets),more engaging, larger, advanced ad formats, access to a premiumaudience and, of course, a quality environmenteverything that appeals to brands.Clearly, strategic partnerships,collaborationand acquisition are the way forward. The ad-tech industry shakeout will continue throughout 2015, as the emphasis on making premium buying and selling as simple and automated as possible grows. The result? Increasingly, solutions that begin to solve for the specific needs of brands.