Its a bit of an emotional rollercoaster for the Frontback community right now. On July 23, the company announced that it would shut down on August 15. But something unexpected happened. A new team is taking over at Frontback and the service will stay open after August 15.Its still very fresh news; things are moving in real time, Frontback co-founder Frdric della Faille told me. Were super happy we found a solution for our community and truly blessed by the thousands of messages. The new team will introduce themselves at the right time. We wanted to respect our community and get the message out as soon as possible.Shortly after the shutdown announcement, an unnamed partner negotiated with the current Frontback team to take over the product.Our team will help them during the transition, after the transition both my co-founder and I are not going to be involved anymore, della Faille said.I tried to get more details about this new secret partner, but the terms of the deal are confidential and the new team will introduce itself in the coming weeks. So its just a matter of time before we know more about this partner.As a reminder, Frontback raised nearly $4 million from a team of star investors and got a lot of attention shortly after its launch. Despite getting 3 million downloads and 2 million users in two years, it wasnt enough to create a hockey stick startup.Heres the current message on Frontbacks website:We recently announced a bad news to our community, and you wont believe what happened next.But first we want to thank you all for your messages, weve got more than thousands from all over the World, you made us cry and smile. You are all very special and we love reading your words.But what happened? Its simple, Frontback stays open!We just signed an agreement with a partner who believes as much as we do that theres something incredible with Frontback. This partner is fully committed to make Frontback an even better place to share your moments, we were impressed by how much they understand the platform and we will help the new team to make the transition as smooth as possible.In our discussions they came up with fresh ideas for the products, and now that we are here we would love to ask you: How to make Frontback better?
Please share with us all your suggestions, the new team is listening to you!#DontstopthefrontbackThank you for everything,
 Team Frontback