The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) published a comment today pushing againstarisingmedia narrative that it may have gonetoo easy on Google during its multi-year antitrust probe on the search companys ranking of results to benefit its own products. In the end, Google agreed to change some of its business practices, and the FTC closed its investigation.While the issue was resolved between the government and Google in the first days of 2013, the issue came roaring back to life after, using the FTCs own wording, a chunk of an internal file from the agency fell victim to inadvertent disclosure.The Wall Street Journal published the document, which caught fire over lines from its pages stating that, at least in the view of some FTC staffers, Googles conduct has resulted  and will result  in real harm toconsumers and to innovation in the online search and advertising markets.The document goes on to list three core ways that Google had run amiss of the law [Page: 116]:The document is only a fractionof the record, making it at best a partial signpost.The first Wall Street Journal report was followed by a second piecefrom the publication detailingGoogles ability to attain meetings at the White House, attempting to paint a mix of interests: Pointing out that on election night in 2012, Googles Eric Schmidt was personally overseeing a voter-turnout software system for Mr. Obama, and so forth.The FTC is not enthused. The agency notes in its memo that a bipartisan group of commissioners agreed that there was no legal basis for action with respect to [search] at the time, as its view was that Googles search activities were not, on balance, demonstrably anticompetitive.Does that sentiment match the FTCs prior words? Returning to the 2013 decision, heres the agency [Formatting, excision: TechCrunch]:The FTC conducted an extensive investigation into allegations that Google had manipulated its search algorithms to harm vertical websites and unfairly promote its own competing vertical properties, a practice commonly known as search bias. [][T]he FTC concluded that the introduction of Universal Search, as well as additional changes made to Googles search algorithms  even those that may have had the effect of harming individual competitors  could be plausibly justified as innovations that improved Googles product and the experience of its users. It therefore has chosen to close the investigation.The FTCs updatednote goes on to state that Google has abided to the commitments it made to the FTC at the time of the decision. The agency saysthat it raised concerns about other Google practices, which appear to align with the documentary record, such as we have it.Ill leave the final summing of the above to the lawyers, but it is also interesting to note the impact that transparency has. This debate, mostly concluded, is now back in the mix. Given the continued importance of search capabilities, even as search itself becomes increasingly diverse, and siloed in some ways, how we determine what is fair from providers is a topic that matters.