Fullscreen, a media company whose creators videos reach 600 million subscribers across YouTube and other social networks, today announced the launchdate and details regarding its subscription video-on-demand service for mobile devices. The company had previously confirmed its plans to establish itself as a consumer-facing brand last fall, butnow says it will officially debut its ad-free service on April 26th. Fullscreen will be available online, as well as via iOS and Android, and it will support Chromecast, the company says.The new servicewill play in the same larger market as other streaming players, like Netflix, YouTube Red, Hulu, Amazon and others, but will differentiate itself primarily through its focus on the youngerdemographic  meaning millennials and Generation Z.These viewers have grown up watching TV and movies on their mobile devices, and are used to interacting with creators through social media.However, theyre not exactly used to paying for access to this video content  an obstacle that many companies today are hoping to overcome. For example, YouTubes subscription service Red is offering a premium, ad-free experience, with offline access, music and some original programming.Meanwhile, according toFullscreen CEOGeorge Strompolos, he sees the new app as having the chance to establish itself as the HBO of the creator-driven video market. Or perhaps, the MTV for the mobile generation.Hannah Kasulka as Meegan Bishop and MaxCarver as Chaad Bishop in Filthy Preppy Teen$If you were to relaunch a network like MTV today, how would you do it? You would probably do it in an over-the-top environment, he begins. You would probably do it with the new generation of creators who have captured the hearts and minds of the youth, and you would probably deliver it in a mobile-first experience, Strompoloscontinues. And thats what we put together.Fullscreen, by way of background, has been in the creator business for over five years.Today its network includes75,000 creators who, combined, see more than 5 billion video views across YouTube and other networks every month. The company works with a range of artists, from those just starting out to bigger names, likeGrace Helbig, The Fine Bros., filmmaker Devin SuperTramp, Andrea Russett and Jack and Jack.But the largeraudienceof viewersdoesnt know aboutFullscreen, or how it works behind-the-scenes to help creators produce, distribute, and measure their videos, or use other tools to help them with things like rights management, content licensing and more. The launch of the new SVOD product is an effort to putFullscreens name in front of viewers, and get them to associate some of social medias top stars with this subscription offering.Grace Helbig as Electra Woman and Hannah Hart as Dyna Girl in Electra Woman & Dyna Girl;To that end, the app will feature exclusive creator-driven content, along with a library of TV shows and movies licensed from Hollywood studios. The idea is to offer a curated selection which younger viewers will be drawn to, including programs like Dawsons Creek, Saved by the Bell, Suburgatory, Daria, Happy Endings, and films like Cruel Intentions, Cant Hardly Wait, Summer Forever, Man Up, Camp Takota, and Elliot Morgan: Premature.But the bigger focus is on exclusive shows. The idea is not to compete with the creators own efforts on YouTube, where their videos are monetized through advertising or, now, YouTube Red subscriptions, but to instead offer series and movies that are unique to Fullscreen.To make this possible, the company is playing the role of matchmaker across its network toconnect on-screen and behind-the-screen talent to produce new scripted and unscripted shows. (See below for descriptions).A Sneak Peek At the AppIn development for over a year, and rumored well ahead of its official unveiling, Fullscreens SVOD service hopes to attract an audience not only because of its talent, but also because of how its product is built.Builtin-house by the team from Viddy, a company Fullscreen acquired back in 2014, the app will introduce several features that differentiate it from services like Netflix. For example, it will function as part social network, where users can create content themselves by chattingabout theshows, making and sharing GIFs and customizable screencaps, and more. This content can then be shared out to other social networks, the CEO notes. (The company is not offering demos at this time.)When the app debuts on April 26th, it will be available on iOS (iPhone, iPad) and Android, and will support Chromecast for watching via atelevision. Other consoles will be supported in the future, were told.Strategic partner AT&T (via the Otter Media investment) is also working with Fullscreen on the production side, as it will co-produce premium content for the service, and will help to market and distribute the app to its own subscribers. This may involve discounts and other special offers, and it will involve a Fullscreen programming block on AT&Ts Audience Network, available to DIRECTV and U-verse TV subscribers.The LineupIn total, there will be over 800 hours of content available when the app debuts,and over90% of itwill beoriginals. A free 30-day trial will be offered to new subscribers.At launch, this list includes these scripted series:Unscripted series include: