
Marco Nardone is the founder and CEO of Fling and Unii. Brace yourself, Marcoweve just been removed from the App Store. With those words, I visualized everything wed slaved over for months crumple itself into a ball of trash and ironically  flinging itself into the bin beside me. But it hardly came as a surprise.Despite stellar traction at over 4million users and 15 million flings opened per day after launching less than a year ago, Fling had morphed into something entirely different from what I initially conceived.It was October 2013, and I was on a plane from Hong Kong to London. Its a 13-hour journey, so I had plenty of time to kill. But instead of tuning out to in-flight movies, I found myself oddly drawn to watching the planes flight path.It was the same dull, slow-moving animation Id seen countless times before, but this time was different. Id spent a lot of time thinking about what the next big app in social messaging was going to be, and as I flipped through British Airways in-flight magazine that showed its hundreds of routes around the world, a vision started to crystallize.I need to make an emergency call, I said.There was apprehension, and possibly a faked medical emergency involved, but finally I managed to reach our COO.Emerson, Ive got an idea, and its either gonna be worth zero or a billion.Despite the skepticism, I got to work anyway, pulling up Photoshop and completing Flings designs by the end of the flight.The vision was clear: Fling was going to be a platform that allowed you to send any real-time message to 50 random strangers in the world. We built the app in a matter of weeks, and within a month we had nearly half a million downloads and incredibly active users. They were sharing snippets of their lives all over the globe, from America to Zambia.Flings vision was coming to life without any of the roadblocks Id expected. It seemed too good to be trueand it was.As more and more users began flocking to Fling, we were fortunate enough to receive increasing PR and coverage from various publications. Unfortunately, this didnt come without its drawbacks.As with any platform that allows any degree of anonymity, we had to deal with another very different type of PR  something we jokingly (kind of, but not really) dubbed the penis rate. Hopefully that illuminates the problem sufficiently and I dont need to go into more detail.Unless youre working on something thats prone to this issue, I dont think its possible to appreciate the frustration. It was like a perverse game of Whack-A-Mole  we would ban users and delete inappropriate flings, only to have them reappear more creatively named and obscenely photographed than ever.We eventually had a full-time team devoted to keeping dicks at bay. But despite our efforts, we couldnt decrease the rate of reported flings to a number lower than 10 percent.Knowing we had to fundamentally change the app in order to fix the problem, we began devising the next iteration. Fling 2.0 would be the most viral platform in existence for discovering authentic, unfiltered content.But making this move wasnt easy. The sexual nature of Fling had become the fuel of our vanity metrics, and with billions of flings delivered per month it was difficult to bring ourselves to tamper with this incredible traction.One of the most humbling learnings Ive ever faced as a CEO is that vanity metrics are as addictive  and dangerous  as any hard drug. We knewwe had to change the culture of our user base; we even completed the designs of Fling 2.0. But like any self-described addict will tell you, change isnt easy. We needed an intervention.To be clear, Apple officially removed us because they implemented a policy against apps with randomized messaging. But theres no doubt in my mind that the reason they pulled the trigger was because much of Fling had become a playground for men to harass women. Take a look at these two graphs:The more flings that women sent on their first day, the more unlikely they were to come back. Compare this to the analogous graph for men, which is quite normal:To give you some context about the ridiculousness: Imagine a restaurant where those who eat the most food are the least likely to return.Sadly, we knew about this gender dichotomy earlier, but we didnt move fast enough. Apple did the right thing by removing us, and was kind enough to work closely with us around the clock in order to get back in; Ill always be grateful for that.In the short term, we had to relaunch as quickly as possible. This meant identifying the absolute minimum set of features required for relaunch. We expected user backlash, but also considered it an opportunity to rid the app of inappropriate users. We whittled the required core features down to two: following users and sharing flings (reflinging).The next priority was removing all roadblocks until relaunch. This meant things like ensuring someone from each team was always on-call so communication wouldnt be bottlenecked. As far as my role went, it meant things like booking Airbnb stays and late-night Uber rides to reduce travel hassle. It also meant smaller things, like volunteering for coffee runs when I had downtime.As it turns out, theres nothing that will motivate and mobilize a team like fighting to get your app approved again, and the vibe in the room was not unlike going to war with the clock. Fling 2.0 was ready for release within a fortnight.The longer-term solution required a bit more introspection. Truth be told, our surging vanity metrics made everyone, including (especially) me, a bit complacent. But even with billions of flings sent per month, something seemed amiss.That something was that our original vision had been lost along the way. We created Fling to create connections powerful enough to disrupt ones social graph. How many of these connections could truly be meaningful when the norm was to troll for sexual conversation?We knew we had to ensure two things:Never run into a content issue again.Make sure that the metrics we tracked were aligned with success.We tightened our rules around moderation and tweaked our design anywhere users had the opportunity to create inappropriate content. For example, we de-emphasized the usernames of strangers, which sometimes contained terms that slipped through our filters, and instead focused on their country of origin. We also started tracking report incidents and implementedtools like Periscope to display these rates company-wide.But this was also a wake-up call to improve good content, and we put a content team in place to surface the best flings. We also designed a quality score based on characteristics of amazing flings and tracked their related metrics. One of them happened to be average fling engagement from female users.Content quality changed almost overnight. Selfies were quickly replaced by glimpses into peoples lives that would normally go unseen. The best flings started traveling at an incredible speed in the form of reflings, which today make up 50 percent of all content (for comparison, retweets made up only 2 percent of tweets in Twitters early days).Change is difficult. Sometimes it requires a cataclysmic event. Getting banned from the app store was the scare that we needed, and it could have been much worse. As CEO, I never should have let it get to that point, but Im glad things turned out the way they did.Heres what I learned:Vanity metrics can be toxic if youre not careful with them. They dont necessarily reflect the health of your product or company. If you only focus on vanity metrics, youll hit a local maxima sooner or later, and its worth sacrificing them to raise your apps true ceiling.Startups are an art, not a science. Metrics (and quantitative data in general) should be taken with context. You need to continually assess the qualitative side, as well. For example, vanity metrics state we have lost some users, but that needed to happen. Imagine what would have happened if we simply added new features without purging original harassers. (Great, Ill refling and follow a bunch of peoplenow back to harassing people over chat.)Everyone at your company cares even if they dont tell you something like this happens. The first thing that our head of design told me was, I love what we do here; I love this place, and I love my jobIm willing to do whatever it takes to keep it, so lets get to work. If youre a startup, its unlikely people would be there unless theyre passionate.Your product needs to be aligned with your vision at all times. If theres a moment where you find its not, then move quickly to fix it. Dont wait until its out of your control.I wish I could offer up a Cinderella ending here. It would be nice to end this by saying that Fling has twenty million active users and we are now one of the worlds most successful startups.Were not there yet, but I know 100 percent that we will be. The same gut that first told me that we needed to change now says were on the right path, as long as we stay true to what weve learned. And this time, I am listening to it.