GGV Capital, a 15-year-old, cross-border venture fund that invests in both U.S. and China-based companies, is raising twogiant new funds, shows two new SEC filings that list a target of $880 millionand $250 million, respectively. Both forms statethat the first sale has yet to occur.The figures represent an enormous increase in the amount of money that GGV is managing; a fast close would alsorepresent a remarkablyshort turnaround for its investment team. GGV closed its fifth fund with $620 million less than two years ago.The firm didnt respond to a request for more information this afternoon.Still, one can imagine why its limited partners might be enthusiastic about plugging more money into its coffers. Among the IPOs in GGVs portfolio in recent yearsis the customer support company Zendesk, which went public in May 2014, and thehybrid array vendor Nimble Storage, which went public in 2013.GGV also backed thepayments company Square, which went public last November, and has seen its shares fall from $13 to $8.50 since. (We sat down with managing director Glenn Solomon a week after the companys public market debutto talk shop.)Several of thestill-private companies in GGVsportfolio have been marked up considerably since GGV invested, too, though its too soon to predict the outcome for any.Oneof its bets is onWish, a fast-growing mobile e-commerce platform that sells almost everything for $25 or less, and ships those items fornext to nothing. (It takes advantage of theU.S. Postal Services ePacket program, which cuts shipping costs by processing goods overseas before theyresent to the U.S.)Wish has reportedlyhad soft acquisition talks withboth Amazon and Alibaba involving ahealthy premiumover its last post-money valuation. (GGV Capital co-led its $19 million Series B round in the spring of 2014; the companyhas sinceraised nearly$600 million, shows CrunchBase, at a reported $3 billion valuation.)Another ofGGVs privately held portfolio companiesis Opendoor, an Internet startup that pays cash to buy peoples homes,then flips them. GGV led its $20 million Series B last February; Opendoorquietly raised $80 million in third round funding last fall.GGV is also an investor in the Saas business Domo, which has raised nearly $500 million to date. GGV led a $60 million round in the business three years ago.GGVs appeal also centers largely on thesuccess ithas enjoyed inChina, a countryto which many VCs flocked more than 10 years ago, then left, while GGVstayed put.Among its many China-based hits: theonline travel information site Qunar (it went public in 2013) and the video sharing site Tudou (it went public in 2011 and was acquired in 2012).GGV is also very notably an early investor inDidi Kuaidi, (more newly branded Didi Chuxing). The company is thecombination of the two largest taxi hailing companies in China.(Update and disclosure. This original post did not link to a second SEC filing for GGVs Discovery Fund, for which GGVis raising $250 million. Also worth noting:GGV Capital managing director Hans Tung is interviewing Wish CEO PeterSzulczewski at an event being organized by this editor later this month.)