In the ever-escalating social media arms race, GIFs are the best way to get attention. Static photos are so 2013. But a new app calledGiffiti (like graffiti with GIFs) lets you enhance your pics by overlaying animations.Announced by Nalin Mittal this month with a simple poston Reddit, Giffiti rocketed to the front page and hit #14 amongst U.S. Entertainment apps on iOS.Graffiti meets #Giffiti pic.twitter.com/myrmrPTTDS Dave Peck (@dangerdave) August 26, 2015This was not the plan. Mittal had sold his company Appstores.com to InMobi. He left with his friend Tim Jones and was trying to build an app for making birthday video montages called Celebrate. They werent getting anywhere, but saw GIF search engines gaining popularity on Reddit and Product Hunt. They took three weeks and built Giffiti.Boom.Sometimes simple is good. Yesterday alone we got 1000 five-star reviews Mittal told me last week.Giffiti lets you upload a photo from your camera roll, then select from an array of simple GIF cutouts to overlay on top. You can move and resize them to your liking, and then save the finished product as a GIF or movie file so you can share it via text, social networks, or however you want. Its reminiscent of another GIF app called PingTank.@Meh_Kat Spidy getting his groove on! #giffiti pic.twitter.com/JmXVKegkQx JRDNCH (@JRDNCH) August 26, 2015Inside Giffiti, youll find a selection of 100 classic Internet memes, celebrities, and special effects to employ. Right now, some of the GIFs are made by the team and others are authorized for use. The company added a few for tonights MTV Video Music Awards.But some of the GIFs are just ripped from the web without any attempt at attribution or proper rights. Thats not exactly respectful, but Mittal thinks any public figure or TV show being referenced is just getting free brand awareness. Giffiti will cooperate with takedown requests. My favorite GIF of Homer Simpson retreating into some shrubbery disappeared after a few days.Eventually, Mittal imagines allowing users to submit animations, and building a business by selling premium GIFs. The apps popularity, however short-lived, should remind social app entrepreneurs that sometimes spending years in the basement crafting the perfect product isnt the answer. Experiment. Ship. And sometimes everything falls into place.