Some downsizing is on the cards for Gilt Groupe, the fashion flash-sales site that hasbeen valued at $1.1 billion. TechCrunch has learned that thecompany is cutting 45 jobs as it triesto turnprofitable by next year. Among those leaving the company are CMO Clay Cowan and head of international business Marshall Porter,with the roles disappearing with them.TechCrunch first heard of the layoffs from two sources before confirming the details with a company spokesperson:While it is always difficult to lose talented people, we are confident the changes we made today position Gilt to be a profitable business in 2016, Jennifer Miller, SVP of corporate communications, said in a statement provided to TechCrunch.From what we understand, Gilt currently has annual revenues of around $600 million. The company actuallydescribed itself asEBITDA profitable as far back as 2012, but ithas yet to ever turn cash flow positive in its eight years of operations. Its hit many milestones, but profitability is not one of them, oneobserver said.As a company, you could say Gilt has seen better days. Tapping into peoples double love of fashion and chasing down a good deal online, the New York-based startup was once the very embodiment of its name: the shiny golden child of e-commerce, inspiring clones from envious onlookers also wanting to get in on the flash saleslandgrab.During Gilts rise, there was talk of the companylooking to go publicin 2013(even as it laid people off). Then the 2013date seemed then to slipto2014, before quietlydisappearing altogether. Instead, Giltraised $50 million in February 2015 on an undisclosed valuation and cut jobs. (To date, Gilt has raised $286 million, with investors including DFJ, General Atlantic, Matrix Partners and Softbank.)These days, Giltsnumbers speak of its challenges to keep uptraffic and general buzz. SimilarWeb puts Giltat number 46 among all clothing shopping sites, and at 1,162 (and declining) among sites in its main U.S. market.Traffichas been dwindling since last year, says one source, who characterizes the layoffs as streamlining headcount in order to make up for the loss in traffic and revenue.As for thoselayoffs, neither the CMO nor international headwill getreplaced. Part of the marketing duties will passto Gilts CIO, who will bring atech perspective to the area with afocus on what Gilt describes as demand marketing.Meanwhile, international operations, which make up 20% of the companys revenue, will continue to runbut will no longer report to an SVP. The companys Japan operations, run by interim Japan CEO Jonathan Venuto, will continue as before. (Previous CEO of JapanJoanna Dubin recently departed.)Oksana Voronenko is being promoted to senior director of international and she will report to Steven Schneider, who will oversee International in addition to being president ofdaily deals site Gilt City and other business development. He reports to Tracey Weber, Gilts president, who reports to CEOMichelle Peluso.Overall, thecuts are spread throughout the organization and include 35 full-time roles and 10 temp roles, or just under 5% of staff.Gilt today focuses on fashion for women, men and children, as well as home goods anddaily deals by way of Gilt City. There are no plans to cut any of these categories.Gilts movesfollow two ongoing storiesin the world of tech.First, they point tohurdles in thewider world of e-commerce, where a number of startups  even those that have vaulted into the so-called unicorn club with billion-dollar-plus valuations  have struggled to achieve viable economies of scale and margin in the face of larger competition from the likes of Amazon and eBay.Other casualties in the space have included companies like Fab.com, whichdownsized and saw its European operations pivotinto Hem, a vertically-integrated home product design and sales, while the U.S. Fab.com operation was sold in a firesale to PCH. And Zulily,which sailed through a $9 billion IPO and was once seen as a potentialAmazon rival, saw its stock tank and was eventually acquired by Liberty Interactives QVC for $2.4 billion (a deal that closed just last week).The struggle for scale, even for popular sites, isan interesting issue, when you consider newer e-commerce sites like Jet.com, which just today announced that it would be scrapping its $50 membership fee  a key part of its business model  in order to try to broaden the sites appeal.Gilts cuts and belt tightening also bring to mind the ongoing debate over whether or notwe are in a tech bubble blown up by overvaluations andabout to burst. If not a crash, therecouldat least be a correction underway. Among other moves, inrecent months, Evernotelaidoff47 people and mutual funds that invest in Dropboxmarked downtheir holdings by20%.Updated with details of cuts in international operations, and change of CEO in Japan.