One of Europes busiest airports, Amsterdams Schiphol hub in the Netherlands, is trialling Google Glass for use by airport authority officers as a hands-free way tolook up gate and airplane information.Its also testing Googles face computer on travelers passing through the terminal in a bid to better understand the customer journey, thanks to Glass first person perspective.Its more proof, if proof were needed, that Google Glass is another Segwayi.e. a technology not destined for the mass market, but for niche industrial and service industry applications. (Related:the Royal Military Constabulary at Schiphol sometimesgets around onSegways.)Google has pulled back onGlass for the masses  at least for now. It shuttered its Glass Explorer program last month. Although far from killing off Glass, ithas handed the project to Nests Tony Fadell to oversee.Glass lives, as a standalone division within Google thats yet to prove its worth  but which Google evidently isnt willing to give up on, even though its been forced to have a rethink about its go-to-market strategy. And, in all likelihood, the entire product proposition/design of the hardware.Glass has always been an uneasy hybrid, combininga prettystandard looking pair of specs with some nerdy and awkward add-ons, like a visible camera and a touch-sensitive surface that requires users stroke the side of their own head. With such mixed messaging, its nosurprise consumers remainunconvinced. (Meanwhile Microsoft has tipped its hand in this space  outingits plans for anaugmented reality headsetcalled HoloLenslastmonthwhich looks more tightly and sensibly focused on indoor entertainment.)While consumers are rightly dubiousabout the utility of wearing camera-touting face computers in their everyday lives, given the socialalienation that invites, a hands-free device for serving data on objects within the wearers field of vision has more obvious potential forbusinesses.In the enterprise sector the promise ofwearablesis increasedefficiency by speeding up the dissemination/capture of information to staff out in the field, or who are in the midst of work or customer engagement. So Glassjust becomes another tool for a particular type of worker.Given Glass visibility, it isperhaps especially suited for workers in a position of authority, whomayalready be marked out by their uniform (fluorescent jackets in the case of Schiphols authority officers),becominganother badge of office.The airportstarted its trial of Glass last month, and has developed a Glass app which lets staffask the device for gate or aircraft data and have the results displayed via the headsetor on their smartphone. Another future feature the airporthopes to implement isthe ability to measure the placement distance of barriers on the taxiway just by looking at them, rather than officers having tomanually take measurements. It goes without saying that thats going to require a very thin margin of error.The airport is not committed to Glass beyond trialling it at this point. Any decision aboutwhether the face computerswill become a permanent fixture on staff will be taken next year, it said.