Text us to get whatever you want, whenever you want, wherever you are  its really simple and cool, says GoButler co-founder CEO Navid Hadzaad.He could of course be describing Magic, the Silicon Valley startup (and Y Combinator alum) that offers an SMS-based virtual assistant and promises to get you anything on-demand.Unlike Magic, however, GoButler is based in Berlin, Germany. Along with Hadzaad, who was previously co-founder of on-demand laundry app ZipJet, the company is founded by a number of other ex-Rocket Internet executives.In fact, Hadzaad says that demand was so high that after only two hours the startup had to revert to a waiting list. Just three weeks later, GoButler is available in Canada, UK, Germany, Austria and Switzerland and has processed over 100,000 requests. Its now 30 butlers are handling more than 5,000 requests per day.People love it. We can already see the traction and lock-in effects by relationships built with customers, he says.Like Magic, you simply send a text message to GoButler and the services butlers  who act as virtual assistants  process your request, keeping you informed along the way. So, for example, you could haveGoButler book a movie or order your favourite pizza.We want to make convenience services actually convenient and personal, says Hadzaad. We want to be the meta-aggregator layer above all vertical market services  online and offline. We are your one-stop-shop for everything you need.The obvious part would be monetising on the customer end through premiums, but where we see the real value is on the supply side, he says. If you understand the way e-commerce and lead generation works, you understand what value this business has; some VCs are referencing the future of search in the discussions we have with them. The goal is to have customers going through us for whatever service, product or information they desire, and well make it happen.That suggests some kind of affiliate revenue model. Or perhaps more direct partnerships with retailers and service providers. The value you have when youre the market maker on an aggregator level is very clear, adds Hadzaad.But how scalable is a service like GoButler? By its very nature it requires humans to act as your virtual assistant.You wont be able to eliminate human interaction at some level (and quite frankly we dont want that at all), however, you can generate a lot of efficiency gains by developing the Product/IT/Database to a high level of sophistication, says Hadzaad.Think of it this way: in 6 months, when you tell us I want my favourite pizza now. Im at home  we know what youre favourite pizza is, we know where you live, we have your payment details. In the background, our integrated-API with our food delivery partner will trigger the order, the payment will automatically be processed and youll get a confirmation. Isnt that convenient?Convenient, yes. And infinitely more attractive to VCs. To that end, GoButler is currently raising a Series A round that it expects to close in the coming weeks. The startups early backers, who invested a six-digit-figure, already include Jan Beckers (co-founder of HitFox), Cherry Ventures (the VC arm of Zalando/Quandoo founders Filip Dames, Christian Meermann and Daniel Glasner), and Gunther Schmidt (co-founder of Ekomi).