Gogoprint is a new company based in Thailand that wants to bring the benefits of the Internet to the printing industry in Southeast Asia.Traditional print houses have no doubtsuffered at the hands of the growth of the internet and the rise of home printers, but a number of companies are using digital to breathe new life into the business. Nasdaq-listedVistaprint, Germanys Unitedprint and London-based Moo.comare three examples that take orders online and fulfill them using traditional print shops.The idea is that, once you reachscale, it is possible to find a level of efficiencythat was impossible offline. Thats because print companies collect a large volume of orders which allows them tocombine different customers request tofill each print sheetto capacity.Batching prints together, as the process is called, means that less space is wasted on a print sheet, which would traditionally run some way below capacity. That level of efficiency enablesonline printing companies to process more orders with fewer print runs  that translates to much lower prices for customers and higher profit margins for the business. It also gives printers guaranteed volume, too.So far, most of the focus has been on large markets like Europe and North America  although Vistaprint did enter Latin America in 2014 with an investment in Brazil-based Printi.Why the long back story? Gogoprint believes it can bring learnings and business models from the West to Asia, and the company has already gained the backing of a key Printi investor. Since launching in November 2015, Gogoprint has raised a mid-six figure U.S. dollar investment from OPG (Online Printing Group), an investment firm fromKai Hagenbuch, an early backer of Printi.OPG is dedicated to finding and funding online printing companies in emerging markets, which Gogoprint foundersAlexander Suss and DavidBerghaeuser both originally from Germany  told TechCrunch is very key.They are more experienced than us and understand that building companies in emerging markets isfundamentally different, Berghaeuser, who was formerly with Rocket Internets Zalora business, said.Gogoprint currently has a team of less than 20 which serve the domestic market in Bangkok.The target customer is business users, rather than consumers, and for now it offers printing for paper-based products such as business cards, flyers and brochures which are delivered 48 hours after order.Gogoprint is starting out in Thailand, where both Suss andBerghaeuser have resided for the past few years, but it has plans to be regional. They estimate the printing industry in Southeast Asia to be worth $25 billion annually, with smaller customers like SMEs heavily underserved by existing solutions.For that expansion to happen, the company is looking to raise a Series A funding round in the second half of this year.Were not talking about one or two countries, were talking about the whole region. So [if] you want to go into five countries, you need some capitalfor that, Suss, a formerErnst & Young auditor who has run multiple online commerce businesses, said.When it comes to going regional, the German founders plan to replicate their local printing model in each country. That means going out to meet printers and explaining that they can bring them new business, no to mention hiring locals to found the business in each country. Local printing makes more sense than running everything through Bangkok, Suss said, because of faster fulfillment speed and no need for overseasshipping which raisescosts.As of now, the Gogoprint founders are weighing up which countries to enter next based on factors such as competition, market pricing and cost of production. But theycould move into new countries as soon as July this year.Beyond geographical expansion, they are also looking to move into other kinds of printing, including banners, stickers and more. Since many businesses comes to them with intent to run marketing or promotional campaigns,Suss and Berghaeuser said they might consider offering related services such as flyer campaignsor design consultancy via partnerships with local players. They are also working to open a dispatch office in Bangkok to manage the movement of their print runs more efficiently.