Organic food delivery startup Good Eggsjust announcedthat it will be closing its operations in Los Angeles, New York City and New Orleans  every city where it has a presence, except for San Francisco.As a result, the company is also laying off nearly 140 employees, including some in its SF headquarters.In a blog post, co-founder and CEO Rob Spiro talked about where Good Eggs goes from here. He said the team is still 100+ strong, will continue to deliver food in the Bay Area, and will still be rolling out product improvements in the coming months.Heres how he explained the decision to make the cuts:The single biggest mistake we made was growing too quickly, to multiple cities, before fully figuring out the challenges of building an entirely new food supply chain. We were motivated by enthusiasm for our mission and eagerness to bring Good Eggs to more people. But the best of intentions were not enough to overcome the complexity. Today we realize that in order to continue innovating in San Francisco, our original market, in order to continue figuring out all the complexity that is required to achieve our mission, we cannot productively maintain operations in other cities.Spiro said the company will accept its final orders from non-SF customerstoday.Good Eggs allows customers to go online and buy produce, meats, dairy products and more from local farms, then the startup handles packaging and delivery. It sounds like the teamhasnt quite figured out how to make that model financially sustainable, at least not in multiple cities, so its focusing on one market while it retools. If Good Eggscan fix the model, then perhaps itwill revisit the question of geographic expansion.Good Eggs was founded in 2011 and raised a $21 million Series C less than a year ago. Investors include Sequoia Capital and Index Ventures.When we started Good Eggs, we had a desire to create a company that, at its core, would do something good in the world by supporting local food systems, Spiro wrote today. We remain committed to that philosophy and extremely ambitious in the scope of our vision. We are grateful for your support as we start this next chapter.