You may recall that Googles mission is to organize the worlds information. So if youve been seeing the Birthdays of people you hardlyknow appearing UFO-likein your Google Calendar lately, never fear  this is just Mountain View doing its thangorganizing your stuff.Specifically, this bit of Googly info-admin boils down to its algorithmsharvesting the birth dates of all of yourGoogle contacts (which meansanyone you might email regularly) and any Google+ users you added to the circlesof your (in all likelihood Google-enforced) Google+ profile, and then insertingthose datesintoyour calendar so you dont have to.Ta-da!Q: how useful is it to have the birthdays of peoplewhose birthdays you dont at all need to have in your calendarmixed in with the birthdays of people you do needin your calendar, clutteringup theplace where you recordother stuffyou do really need to know?A: not useful at all!Google is probably too busy organizing the worlds informationto register the universalindifference (to put it charitably) to this bit of information its organizedunasked into your digital life. The delivery medium for this lateststinker wasa recent Google Calendar update, also enforced on users. Theres a theme here, eh.Mountain Viewshould probably take a little time out to study its ownmission statementin full.Which  for the record  currently reads:Emphasis on the word useful.Admittedly the universally accessible clause is in apparentcontentionwith the useful clause. Universal accessibility  a criteria which an enforced Birthdays calendar algorithmclearlymeets  isalso higher up the mission statements food chain, with useful appearing to be only tacked onas an afterthought.Add to that, Google doesnt specifyto whomusefulness is aimed. Its not, for instance, specifying a mission to be useful to Google users. So perhaps the mission statement is actuallypalindromic; and there aretwo implied words that come after useful. Namely:to GoogleBut lets give Mountain View the benefit of the doubt  and accept its mission statement at face value, withutility to us, the users, still clinging on there at the finale bya few pixels.In that caseGoogle should really take a little more time to study itsown stated information. Because of course it is not even slightlyuseful to have randombirthdays injected into your daily schedule, mixed in with the information you do find useful. Au contraire. Its the opposite of useful. Its confusing at very best.Mostly,asone of my TC colleagues put it, its so annoying!!. Another described it as a source of major annoyance, adding that this is because my Google+ followers [sic?] birthdays are showing up in my calendar, many of whom I dont even know. So we can add: annoying and Google+ to the themes in play here.What is useful  or rather was  is thishow to guide,put together by engineer Brenden Mulligan, on removing GoogleenforcedBirthdays from your otherwise carefully curated Google calendar. This guide was useful enough to have garnered some 12,000 viewsin the month or so since it was posted to Medium, according to Mulligan.I can vouch for it. I was one of the 12,000 who viewed the guide, and used its instructions to successfully exciseGoogles Birthday Calendar cancer over the holidays. Truly thatfelt like a Christmas miracle."Salvation! Clicking that magic button will rid you of this stupid calendar forever (or until Google obnoxiously adds it manually again)." Natasha (@riptari) December 27, 2014The guide is not currently useful, however, because Google appears to have removed and/or disabled the squirreled away removal option thatMulligan had carefully trackeddown.Heactually warned this sort of thing might happen  that Google might obnoxiously forceBirthdays on its users again, as he put it. Sadly he was spot on.The removal method Mulliganunearthed was already buried way down in the sort of web sub-menus where onlythe equivalent ofdigital dust spends any time. It required you to click through to a random-sounding page labelled Browse interesting calendars, and then ignore the massive list of national holiday calendars which made the page look really, really boringand instead click on an unassuming More link.At thatpoint a far shorter list of calendars would appear, including a calendar called Birthdays. And loyou would findthe belowoption to unsubscribe from it:So basically this option was buried whereno one would ever stumble upon it, and even those who went looking had to go on a Dantean quest throughmultiple circles of Google Settings hell.You could say the elusive unsubscribe informationhad beenvery well organized by Google.(Add to that, the inoffensive name of the offending calendar compounded the quest to locatea specific setting from the underbelly of the corporateInternet. It would have been far more clearly labeled if it had been called Birthdays Of The People Whose Birthdays You Dont Need To Have In Your Calendar Calendar. But that would have started to sound very Kafka-esque.)Anyway, the long and short of it is that unsubscribe option for Birthdays is now an ex-option. It has gone awol. It has been disappeared entirely. And/orgreyed out:@mulligan It's even checked and greyed out. :/ pic.twitter.com/nHEqcM2NVk Jason Shellen (@shellen) January 8, 2015TechCrunch contacted Google to ask all about this  such as whether Googlesremoval of the ability to remove its obnoxious omni-Birthday Calendars was a bug or a feature, and what sort of utility Google believes is being injected into users lives by enforcing knowledge of all your non-friendsbirth dates?A Google spokeswoman initially ignored our specific questions, and instead sent a link to this supportpageclaiming it is still possible to hide Birthdays if you dont want to see them.Our celebrations were very short lived, however, as unfortunately this claim isentirely misguided. The settings page it links through to does not offer the prior unsubscribe option unearthed by Mulligan. So it absolutely does not offer the utility we crave: namely the ability to continue toview only the birthdayswe human users have consciously added to our Google calendars, and NOTto view those annoying Birthdays that Googles algorithms are uselessly forcing on us.Human choicevs algorithmic organization is another pertinent theme here. (On that score, see also: Twitterpolluting human curated information feeds with algorithmically selected content.)However its not surprising that the Google spokeswoman sent usthismisguided advice, being as the Google settings page itselfmakes a grand claim thatits possible to easily hide Birthdays if you dont want to see them.Birthdays and holidays are already added to your calendar so youll never miss an opportunity to celebrate. But if you dont want to see these events all the time, you can easily hide them,it chirps.The problem is thats basically not true. Or so impossible to actionit amounts to the same thing. It does not in factappear thatGoogle is sanctioning even anuclear option of nixing every birthday and Birthday in your calendar.We looked for such an option. We couldnt find it.Certainly there is no obvious way to unsubscribe from Googles Birthdays Calendar when youre noodlingaround in itssettings swamp  which means that even if you can hide those birthdays you yourself have added to your calendar (which of course you probablywouldnt want to anyway), youll still see your Google+ buddies Birthdays because there is no unsubscribe option for Birthdays.Look here, at this description of the Birthdays calendar  and the total lack of any unsubscribe option for that specific calendar:Further details about the Birthdays calendar also offers no obvious unsubscribe option:On a scale of useful to not at all useful these settings aredefinitely not at all useful.To further increase your pain and suffering, Googles Birthday & Holidays Settings page notes the following procedures for editing or removing individual birthdays (so removing them one by one, which would obviously be annoyinglytime-consuming):If the person is in your Google+ circles, you can only remove their birthday from your calendar by removing them from your Google+ circles.If the person is in your contacts, but not your Google+ circles, you can edit or remove the persons birthday from the People or Contacts app on your phone (if your contacts are synced with Google), or from google.com/contacts.If you arent sure whether a birthday comes from your contacts or Google+, you can go to google.com/contactson a computer and open the contact details for that person.So basically in order to escape Google+ Birthday hell Google requires you to descend into Google+ hell and manually delete individuals whose birthdays you dont want to be spammed with from your circles (and so stop following entirely their Google+ activity). Well I suppose thats one way for Google to enforce engagement with its zombie social network. But its very wrong-headed, to put it mildly.At the time of writing Googles spokeswoman is checking on whether there is any way at all to unsubscribe fromBirthdays, and says shell get back as soon as possible. So if there is a very elusive option to re-unsubscribe Ill be sure to update this post and add it in. As, doubtless, will Mulligan to his original Medium post.Update:Google has now provided the following statement to TechCrunch: While there are options for people to turn off the Birthday calendar, were currently working on a solution to make it even easier for people to have more control over this feature. Stay tuned.Whether that option re-materializes or not one thing here is amply clear: Google does not want you to unsubscribe from information it determines should be universally available. That is not part of its mission. It is, in fact, the polaropposite of its mission. Hence making unsubscribing such awild goose chase. So the theme of reducing user control and increasing algorithmic enforcement is not going to go away anytimesoon.On the contrary, as more and more information piles online  via connected devices and the like  expect more levers of human control to be quietly disappeared or disabled becausethe algorithmic entities conductingthis increasingly pervasive digital symphony really prefer ifyou just sit there and lap everything up.It makes the big dataso much more quantifiableif you do.In short: eyeballs, know thy place!Still, its worth us humans remembering thatother calendarsare available. Which is one short-term wayto route aroundthis sort ofTFBS. So vote with your clicks while you can.Update:You could also try this:@TechCrunch @riptari I turned it off. In Calendar Settings, use Inspect Element to remove "disabled" attr on checkbox. Zev Goldberg (@zevbrokeit) January 9, 2015But see also this about manually adding an onclick handler to get the above workaround to function.