Google today announced that it isbuilding its first engineering team devoted to Southeast Asia, andthesearch giant has gobbled up Pie, a Slack-like team communications servicebased in Singapore, to kick-start things.Pie, which raised $1.2 million in funding last year led by Gree Ventures, is the first acquisition Google has made in Southeast Asia. The startupoffers an enterprise chat app that helps teams communicate without email. Its nine-person team will transition to Google in full and the Pie chatservice will be shuttered.The acquisition was undisclosed bothPie founder and CEOPieter Walravenand Google declined to comment on the price of the deal.Pies basic premise is was very much like Slack  and a host of other, better funded rivals in Asia like EkoandChatWork and ittried to differentiate itself by focusing on a very basicexperience targeted at non-technical companies. We had heard recently that Pie was in the process ofraising new funding it seems, then, that things had become tricky enough for an exit to Google to be the most attractiveway to proceed.The deal, which is an acqui-hire, has been made to boost a new Google team that will focus on developing products for Southeast Asia in the same way that Google has done in India over the past year.Were seeing some of the fruits of Googles local efforts there  it is rolling out free WiFi on the countrys railways, has madededicated apps, openeda YouTube production studio,and addedoffline features to YouTube and we can expect similar thingsin Southeast Asia, a region thats home tomore than 600 million people.In conjunction with this deal,Google announced that it is hiringengineers and fresh graduates to join its new unit. It also opened a new internship program for current students, who are being offered the chance to spend 12 weeks atits Sydney office in Australia.Finally, Google puta call out to existing staffersin the U.S. who want to come home to Singapore or move to the city-state. The company will hold an event at its Mountain View on March 8 with more information  thats strictly for existing employees, however.Caesar Sengupta, who is vice president of Googles Next Billion Users team, explained in a blog post that the company needs to localize its team to reflect the many differences in Southeast Asia:The computing experience for most of these first-timers, coming online in places like India, Indonesia and the Philippines, is very different from the one many of us grew up with  and not the one that most of Googles services were originally designed for. Their main (and in most cases, only) computer is a low-cost smartphone. Connectivity is expensive in relation to incomes, and frequently patchy  websites, maps and especially videos can take minutes to load and often time out. And for many, there is just not enough relevant content available in their language.These arent easy problems to fix, but wed like to do a better job of addressing them. Thats why were building a new engineering team in Singaporeto get closer to the next billion users coming online and to develop products that will work for them.Southeast Asia, which once seemed like a part of the world forgotten by tech companies, is viewedas an areawith immense potentialthanks to risingsmartphone salesand high Internet activity. Twitter, Google and Facebook are among the global firms that have offices there, and the region is increasingly attractive to tech companies and startupsin China and India that seek out overseas growth opportunities.