U.S. consumer rights organization, Consumer Watchdog, has lodged a complaint with the FTCthat Google is being unfair and deceptive by not extending the sorts of individual privacy rights it now offers Europeans under Europes May 2014right to be forgotten ruling to its U.S. users.Specifically its calling for Google to afford U.S. citizens a right to relevancy in terms ofthe data that is associated with their identity online. Lets just say that a very large red alarm klaxon probably just sounded in Mountain View.As European philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche once noted, long before U.S. Internet giants were getting embroiled in European data protection legislative frameworks, if you gaze long into theabyss, the abyss gazes back into you.Googles refusal to consider such requests in the United States is both unfair and deceptive, violating Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, saidJohn M. Simpson, Consumer Watchdogs Privacy Project director, in a statement on the complaint. We urge the Commission to investigate and act.The so-called right to be forgotten (rtbf) ruling refers to a judgement by Europes top court that private individuals have a right to ask that search engines delist outdated, irrelevant or erroneous information from search results associated with their own name.The court judged that search engines are data controllers and therefore that existing European data protection legislation applies to them.Source data is not removed from the Internet, merely decoupled from the requestersidentity in search results.Since the rtbf ruling came into effect, Google  which remains by far the dominant search engine in Europe, with a circa 90 per cent share of the market  has received more than 280,000 requests for delisting in Europe, grantingaround40 per cent of them. It keeps a running tally of totalshere. Andcurrently only delists on European sub-domains, not on Google.com.Honoring the Right To Be Forgotten, or Right To Relevancy, is an important tool to protect privacy. Googles own experience in Europe demonstrates that Right To Be Forgotten removal requests can be managed in a way that is fair and not burdensome for Google, the Consumer Watchdog complaint argues.It asserts:Googles anti-consumer behavior around privacy issues is deceptive. The Internet giantholds itself out to be committed to users privacy, but does not honor requests that provide a keyprivacy protection.Not offering Americans a basic privacy tool, while providing it to millions of users acrossEurope, is also an unfair practice. Acts or practices by a business are unfair under Section 5 ofthe Federal Trade Commission Act if they cause or are likely to cause substantial injury toconsumers that consumers cannot reasonably avoid themselves and that is not outweighed bycountervailing benefits to consumers or competition.As well as arguing that a workable rtbf in Europe makes it viable for Google to offer American users the same privacy rights, Consumer Watchdog points toGoogles announcementlast month that it would beginoffering a process for allweb users torequest theremoval ofrevenge porn imagery  a policythat Google couched as narrow and limited, evidently keen to avoid the kind of calls for ageneral rtbf its now fielding.Consumer Watchdogs complaintalso notes that Google already edits out otherinformation fromU.S. search results  such asNational identification numbers, bankaccount numbers and credit card numbers, and images of signatures.Itsclearthat very large cracks have appeared inGoogles go-toargument against expanding individual privacy rights over the online data hierarchies it generates (i.e. that its search algorithms arean impartial and immutable indexer of truth and knowledgeonline). The more truthful assessment is Googles algorithms are theproprietary and commercially driven levers powering aclicks-for-ads business.Consumer Watchdogs complaint cites several specific examples where individuals lives are being adversely affected by continued association with digital data aboutpast events  such as a person who waswrongly charged witha violent crime wherethe charges were subsequently dropped but whose mug-shot photo continues to beassociated with her online identity; or the victim of a car crash whose family continues to seea photo of her decapitated body if they Google her name.Google is clearly feeling a lot moreheat than usual on the issue of privacy, both withinEurope and as awareness of the rtbf ruling hasrippled out across the Atlantic. Last month it announced it was centralizing some usercontrols with the launch of a new privacy dashboard which it claimsimproves transparency about how its business gathers and uses user data.Weve reached out to Google for comment on the Consumer Watchdog complaint and will update this story with any response.