At its I/O developer conference last week Google announced a big revampofits cloud-based photo sharing and storage product, uncoupling it from theGoogle+ social network, where usage wasinevitably constrained, and sending it winging its wayonto the wider web andiOS as a standalone app.Itsflagship associated announcement was that unlimited cloud storage on Google Photos is free  meaning the productpromises to coverallyour back up photo needs. There is alsoa paid version, for pros wanting to upload the most high res content; but for everyoneelse yourphotosget squeezed gently through a lossless compression algorithm and shelved withinGoogles infinite storage cloud for no monthly fee.Photos, as Googles marketing materials lavishly reminded us, are not just a collection of pixels. These are your precious memoriesthe companyis offering to host gratis. (Well, and all the other quotidian stuff you end upphotographing and screenshotting with yourphone  like receipts,documents, directions, maps, menus, price-tags, places youre going, things you like the look of and want to buy, etc etc.) But this is notgenerosity. Oh no.This islock in baby, lock in.Theres even a feature that will delete photos fromyour phone whenyouve run out of local storage ifthe shots have already been backed up to the Google Photos cloud platform. So a full strengthphotostoragelock in mechanism is go here.The lure of free unlimited storage masks another motivating impetus. The big one: data. Oodles and oodles of personal data whichGoogle is hankering to applyits data mining algorithms to. And how better to get its hands on all that personal contentthan by encouraging peopleto upload it themselves to a free storage repository. After all, the unloved Google+ was just acting as bottleneckon what couldbe a(nother) very sizablepersonaldata funnel for Googles business.Itsalgorithms dont just see your photos as a random collection of pixels, of course. Theyre far smarter than that. Google has evendolledup theseunderlying data-miningsmarts asanother consumer lure: Google Photoscomputer vision-poweredimage search lets peoplemine their personal photo repository via natural language queries,doing away with the tedium of having to tag stuff.So now you can query your personal photo bank to find every picture of a craft beer bottle youve ever snapped, or all the meals youve ever photographed,or each and every selfie youveevertaken. Should you really want to.And just as youcan trivially navigateand review your visual history using thistool, so too can Google.Its algorithms are even smart enough to geotag images based on stuff they recognize in the shots like landmarks so even if youve turned off that typeof location-stamping in your phones camera setting, Googlecan still work out some of where youve been based on whatits algorithms can pull out of your photos. And photo time-stamps give further signalsthe companycan data mine for intel on yourpassions and preoccupations. Truly a treasure trove of personal data for its algorithms to ingest and feedintoits ad-targeting machinery.Theres no doubt Google Photos is amassive landgrab for personal data  at a time when visual imagery is thebiggest social currency of the web.Just as, a decade+ ago, Google launched its ownwebmail product with significantly more storage as the carrot to peel users away fromrival emailproducts, its now repeatingthe trickwith photos  using the competitor-beating promise of free unlimited photostorage to lure in and lock downaccess to mobile users principle expression stream. Andthe price of itsfree unlimited storage? You giving Google unfettered access to everyvista (and its associatedmetadata) onyourcamera roll.Today Google also went on apropaganda offensive bylaunching a centralized privacy dashboardthatseeks tosanitize theextent and ambition of itsdata-gathering activities, while also claiming to offer users easier access to some privacy settings (such as the ability to edit orpurgethe history of videos youve watched on YouTube).Its interesting the company feels the need to spin so hard on privacy. The language used on thisdashboard is couchedtosuggest Googlesdata gathering activities are performed principally for the users benefit.Which isa pitch-perfectlydisingenuousresponse togrowing consumer concerns about data privacy.If you really dig down  to where Google claims its givingcandid answersto questions such as What data does Google collect? What does Google do with the data it collects? you get to read Google describeits ad businessas a service it provides to web publishers to help them fund their business through advertising. Which is as transparent as this privacy dashboard gets on the key point: thatthe fuelpowering Googlesadsalesbusiness is your personal data.And that the companyscontinuedunfettered access to your personaldata is therefore paramount.Instead, Googlehas seized on consumerprivacyconcerns and done the very best it can to defusethem with marketing misdirection, or bland and intellectually dishonest statements such as:We keep your personal information private and safe and put you incontrol.In truth, Google has a history of doingthe opposite of putting the user in control when it comes to data privacy.TechCrunch asked for specificdetails ofthe privacy policy associated with Google Photos  only to bepointed to the generic Google privacy policy.The company unified the privacy policies for more than 60 of itsproducts back in 2012  a movewhichgot it into trouble with European data protection regulatorsbecause such drastic amalgamationresults in a lack of transparency about what specific services are doing with yourdata, and makes itharder for people to control how their personal data is generally used by Google. So the exact opposite of user in control then.When asked for more specific informationon how Google Photos uses and processes userdata, acompanyspokeswoman had only thefollowingpieces of colorlesswindow-dressing to add:Your Google Photos account is just as private and secure as any other Google service.We dont share your information with others unless you explicitly choose to share it with them.Google Photos will not use images or videos uploaded onto Google Photos commercially for any promotional purposes, unless we ask for the users explicit permission.