Google today announced the launch of a new site called News Lab, a destination that aims to connect journalists with programs, data and other resources to aid in their reporting. The site will feature a number of tools for newsrooms, including tutorials and best practices on how to use Google products in reporting, as well as provide access to the recently updated Google Trends service, and more. It will also showcase Googles numerous efforts surrounding new media partnerships and citizen reporting.The News Lab site builds on a series of announcements that came out last week which were similarly focused on Googles increasing effortsto play a larger role in the world of journalism. For example, in partnership with social news agency Storyful, Google rolled out YouTube Newswire  a curated and aggregated feed containing daily newsworthy events that have been published to YouTube. It also announced a series of initiatives aimed at supporting and verifying news videos on YouTube. These included WITNESS Media Lab, which will produce a number of in-depth projects on human rights issues, and The First Draft Collection, which teamed up journalism experts to train others on video verification, research and ethics.These, too, will be housed and linked to from News Lab, which is now serving as the home for Googles many projects in the journalism space. Here, Google will keep a continually updated list of tools and resources atg.co/newslab, and the site will feature Googles various media partnerships and projects, including those listed above.The site currently details some of the partnerships Google has undertaken, such as its efforts with the San Francisco-based media accelerator Matter; grassroots journalism organization Hackers/Hackers;TechRakingsummits Google is holding withthe Center for Investigative Reporting, and others. Plus, the site offers information on hackathons dedicated to developing new investigative tools, like the use of drones in reporting. And, as a global initiative, Googles News Lab will also power the training and research arm of GooglesDigital News Initiative in Europe, the company says.Meanwhile, the Data section of News Lab links to the recently updated Google Trends service and highlights media organizations which have used Google Trends data in their reporting. On Wednesday last week, Google rolled out a redesign of Google Trends which now brings real-time data for 28 countries to itsservice.The move to better showcase Googles tools and resources for reporters comes at a time when a number of social media services are oftenfound to be the place where news first breaks. Thesesocial media posts then become embedded in reporters stories, including Facebook updates, tweets, and now, live streams from services like Twitters Periscope or Meerkat.With citizen reporters regularly turning to social media first  and not typically onGoogle+, the companys own social media site  Google is working to assert the variety of other ways it has to participate in the reporting process, ranging from first-hand videos posted to YouTube to its wealth of data and information collected from the worlds searchers.Google is smart to play up thetroves of data it can offer journalists, as thatsthe companys strength. More importantly, it puts access to Googles tools all under one roof which will make it easier for those looking for this sort of information to find it more quickly, bettering Googles chancesof having its data used in reporters stories.