The truism about techs lack of diversity is that its a pipeline problem.At least thats what tech leaders and companies often say when questioned about why their ranks arent inclusiveenough.Is it an honest answer? Kind of.Does it also shove responsibility for fixing the problem onto everyone else? Yes.How do you fix it?Its noteasy, because there are so many segments of the so-called pipelinefrom primary education and then on andupward intothe tech industrys culture itself.But certain companies and leaders are taking baby steps toward helping to fix it.TheRobin Hood Foundation, Google for Entrepreneurs, the Blackstone Charitable Foundation, Capital One dFUND, Arbor Brothers, New York Community Trust, Verizon, reddit.com founder Alexis Ohanian, and the Bernard F. & Alva B. Gimbel Foundation are giving $1.75 million to theCoalition for Queens.Coalition for Queens isa non-profit that teaches tech skills to New Yorkers. They run programming courses over ninemonths for adults from low-income and underrepresented backgrounds. The organizations founder Jukay Hsu said his non-profit has been able to raise the average income of graduates from$26,000 to $73,000.When youre talking about making a more inclusive tech ecosystem, theres actually already a tech community growing here in Queens, said Hsu, a New York native who started doingworkforce development after leaving the U.S. military.The program, which is free, targets a group that has at least 50 percent women, 50 percent underrepresented minorities and 50 percent immigrants. No background in programming is necessary and the participants annual salary cant be more than $45,000.They run two sets of courses teaching both iOS and Android development. (Android is the new course.)Theclasses are about 22 hours a week, with homework on top. Hsu plans to target 60 studentsin this cohort. He hopes that if he can continue to prove the models viability, hell partner with the CUNY system,which caters to 500,000 students.In addition to Hsus program, there are many other efforts like this on the West Coast too. But they have different target age ranges, incomes and skill levels. YearUps Silicon Valley chapter, for instance, targetyoung people in the 18-24 age range who might not have had the chance to go to a prestigious four-year university, but have the drive and abilityto work at local tech companies. SamaUSA is running a program that teaches morebasic digital skills to low-income workers of a wider age range so that they can handle resumes and social media online. Then there are programs targeted at teens like East Palo Altos Streetcode or Oaklands Hack the Hood.
I dont see this as an educational non-profit, he said. This isabout working onthe education system as a whole. There are other coding programs, but they dont necessarily talk about urban policy issues or broadband access.