Google is planning to compete with Nuance and other voice recognition companies head on by opening up its speech recognition API to third-party developers. Toattract developers, theapp will be free at launch with pricing to be introduced at a later date.Wed been hearing murmurs about this service developing for weeks now. Thecompany formally announced the service today duringits NEXT cloud user conference, where it also unveiled a raft ofother machine learning developments and updates, most significantlya new machine learning platform.TheGoogle Cloud Speech API, which will cover over 80 languages and will work with any application in real-time streaming or batch mode,will offerfull set of APIs forapplications to see, hear and translate, Google says. It is based onthe same neural network tech that powers Googlesvoice searchin the Google app and voice typing inGoogles Keyboard. There are some other interesting features, such as working innoisy environments and in real-time.Googlesmove will have a large impact on the industry as a whole  and particularly on Nuance,the company long thought of as offering the best voice recognition capabilities in the business, and most certainly the biggest offering such services. Anumber of Nuance customers, including startups, couldleave it in favor of Googles technology, which not only offers an improved experience over current providers, but will also be made available at a lower cost.Toattract developer interest initially, the API will be completely free to use. Over time, the API will be paid, butlikely have low-cost pricing tiers, we understand. Google may choose to raise those prices over time, after it becomes the dominantplayer in the industry.Google has offered limited access to its voice technology in its products to date. Developers can make JavaScript calls to the Chrome API, for example, which are then routed to the speech recognition API. And Google announced aVoice Interaction APIat Google I/O in 2015, which allows Android developers to add voice interactions to theirapps. But Google had yet to open up access to thespeech recognition API directly.The introduction of the speech APIwont only impact Nuance and other speech recognition providers, but is also being seen as an attack on Apple, whose virtual assistant Siris voice recognition capabilities palein comparison toGoogles. Its also yet to offer an API for developers to use the Siri tech in their own apps.There were hints that Google would be putting a greater emphasis on its voice technology and many use cases. For example, the companyannounced in Februarythat it would allow Google Docs users to edit and format their documents by voice.More to come as we hear about it at the event.