Since early 2015, Googles Gmail Android app has allowed users to manage their mail from non-Gmail accounts, like Yahoo and Outlook. Now the company is taking things a step further. Its today introducing a new feature called Gmailify that will allow anyone to take advantage of Gmails spam protection, inbox organization, Google Now integrations, and more, without having to change their email address.That means youll be able to not only be able to check your @Yahoo.com, @Hotmail.com, or @Outlook.com email within Gmails mobile application  but you can also managethose accountsas if thoseemails were hosted on Googles own servers. This makes sense for peoplewho would like to choose Gmail for its advanced feature set, but are stuck with a different email and dont want to go through the hassles involved with changing their email address.If youre already accessing your non-Gmail accounts from the Gmail application, youll still need to opt in to the Gmailify feature. To do so, youll need to open the Gmail app, sign into your external accounts, and then enable Gmailify, a Google blog post explains.In practice, this involves linking your non-Gmail account(s) to Gmail. In the apps Settings screen, youll tap on the non-Gmail account you want to link then choose Link Account. This is what allows the appto take advantage of Gmails expanded feature. This will actually work both in the Android application as well as on the web at mail.google.com.You can choose to unlink the accounts at any time, the company notes.In addition to being able to utilize Gmails spam protection on this incoming mail, your non-Gmail emails will also be organized by type (e.g. Social, Updates, Promotions). Plus,youll be able to search your non-Gmail using advanced search operators, receive better notifications on mobile, and your travel and hotel reservations will appear automatically in Google Now.Google is not alone in trying to cater to non-account holders by focusing on its feature set. Other top email providersare also working to court those who want to try a different user experience without having to change their address. For example, in December, Yahoo announced its mobile email app would allow users to manage their Gmail, allowing them to use things like Yahoos smart contacts and password-free sign-in. Meanwhile, Microsofts Outlook.com even offers an import tool to help make the transition from Gmail to its app easier.Its notable, too, that Gmailify launched on the same day that Microsoft is taking Outlook.com out of preview.At launch, Gmailify only works with Yahoo and Microsofts Hotmail/Outlook, but Google says more providers will be supported in the future.