Google has reversed one of its April Fools Day pranks after it caused a numberGmail users to unwittinglyinsert GIFs into business emails and other important communications.The U.S. internet giant is usually celebrated for its creativeApril Fools gags  some ofits others today are funny but the Big Gs attempt to inject humor into email via a Mic Drop button that insertsa Minions GIF inGmail messagesbackfired.Today, Gmail is making it easier to have the last word on any email with Mic Drop. Simply reply to any email using the new Send + Mic Drop button. Everyone will get your message, but thats the last youll ever hear about it. Yes, even if folks try to respond, you wont see it, Google explained when it launched the button on April 1.Sounds fun in theory, sure, but when your email service has more than one billion active users, many of whom rely on it for business and professional communication, thenthings can get a little dicey. (Importantly, the feature does not appear to be enabled for Google Apps customers who pay to use Googles business suite, which includes corporate email, but others who use the regular service did have it.)Then, the button placement was problematic. Google substituted send and archive  which many people use habitually and click on without a second thought  for MicDrop, making ita recipe for disaster for many.An initial warning didpop up, but anyone who didnt catch that wasin for a surprise.Heres how easy it wasto send:And this was the result:Andy Baio, former Kickstarter CTO and founder ofXOXO Festival, was one of a number of users who mistakenly hit the button on an important email.I can't believe how short-sighted Gmail's "Drop Mic" April 1 joke is. It replaces the "Send+Archive" button, and attaches GIFs to sent mail. Andy Baio (@waxpancake) April 1, 2016Changing sent email like that without confirmation is an incredible betrayal of trust. The damage from this prank is just getting started. Andy Baio (@waxpancake) April 1, 2016Beyond messing with the tone of an email, Drop The Mic also muted all replies  irreversibly:I did a little testing: Any email sent with "Mic Drop" is immediately and IRREVERSIBLY muted. Replies skip the inbox, with no way to unmute. Andy Baio (@waxpancake) April 1, 2016There wereseemingly plenty of others Gmail devotees affected.As Baio pointed out, Googles Gmail supportpagesattracted plenty of complaints.One user claimed to have lost business as a result of the prank:This personmistakenly dropped the mic with a number of important contacts:Another did the same:Onebusiness user warned of the potential issues:One Gmail usersaid the button was enough to tempt them to change email provider:And those are just the ones who took the time to complain.Yes, Google does have an undo button for recalling emails that went out wrong, but in this case the familiarity of the button placement may have lulled many Gmail regulars into a false sense ofsecurity.Google, to its credit, has been open to feedback and has acted quickly to remove the feature.Heres the company statement, emoji included were told:Well, it looks like we pranked ourselves this year.  Due to a bug, the MicDrop feature inadvertently caused more headaches than laughs. Were truly sorry. The feature has been turned off. If you are still seeing it, please reload your Gmail page.We pressed Google on the bug, and a spokesperson explained in a very few cases the MicDrop feature could appear in future emails even if the user hadnt specifically pressed the button.Lesson here for would-be pranksters and particularly smaller companies with limited resources: spend your time building your product not a gag, because even the best in the business can get it horribly wrong sometimes.Cancel your startup's unfunny April Fools planning, donate the time & budget to something worthwhile. Bask in the good vibes. Anil Dash (@anildash) March 29, 2016