Google is launching a couple of updates to its cloud-based big data products at the Hadoop Summit in Brussels today. These include the launch of the open beta of Cloud Dataflow, Googles new service for processing huge amounts of data, as well asan update to BigQuery,which will make the companys bid data database service available in Googles European data centers and introduces row-level permissions.Cloud Dataflow made its debut during Googles annual developer conference last June. Until today,the service remained in private alpha, however. Now, any developer who is interested ingiving the service a try can start using it, but because this is still a beta product, there is no SLA available yet.As Googles director of product management Tom Kershaw tells me,Googles philosophy with regard to big data is to take away as muchcomplexity as possible. What the industry has suffered from in the past is that big data is very difficult to work with, henoted.Businesses are starting to understand that there is a lot of value in all the data they produce, but Kershaw arguesthat developers are still having a hard time usingthe tools they need to work with all of this information. This has to be democratized, he said. Weve taken our big data portfolio and made it much easier to use.Cloud Dataflow, which can processdata both as streams and in batches, automatically scales according to the developers needs, for example (though its worth noting that Google plans to implement some controls so cost cantget out of hand when a developer pushes more data through the system than necessary). Developers write their Cloud Dataflow code once and then Google handles all the infrastructure for them.While Cloud Dataflow is new, BigQuery has now been aroundsince 2010. Starting today, however, its users can also host their data in Googles European data centers. Kershaw tells me a lot of Googles customers have been askingfor this. Given the concerns around data sovereignty in Europe, its actually surprising that Google didnt roll this feature out earlier.The other update to BigQuery is that the database now supports row-level permissions. That may sound like a minor update, but Kershaw rightly argues that its actually a very importantnew feature.In many companies, different departments now need to access the same data, but while the marketing department may need to work with some tables and tables in your database, for example, youmay not want to givethem access tosensitive business data. Today, this typically means IT will make a copy of the data and share this copy with another department. Once youve made this copy, though, the different datasets are out of sync. When we create datasets that are copied, we create outdated data  and wrong data, Kershaw said. You end up running analytics on this data and its wrong and old. With row-level permissions, the administrators can now ensure that different departments only get access to the information they need without thedrawbacks of making copies.With this update, BigQuery can now also ingest up to 100,000 rows per second andtable. Thats a lot of information, but not an unusual number when you analyze huge log files  something thats become a major use case for BigQuery, Kershaw tells me.Googles big data lineup currently consists of BigQuery, Cloud Dataflow and the messaging serviceCloud Pub/Sub. Given Googles interest and in-house expertise in this area, chances are we will see more updates and new tools for working with large amounts of data at Google I/O next month.