Google has been putting serious investment into building out its artificial intelligence, deep learning and robotics capabilities, and this weekthe company made its latest move to tap into some of the more cutting edge work going on in the field, specifically in Europe.The search giant, through its German division Google Germany,has made aninvestment in theGerman Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence (the DFKI), a nonprofit institute where some 450 scientists,academics and others work on projects in areas like language technology, embedded intelligence,augmented reality,knowledge management, and mulitmediaanalysis and data mining. It alsospins out businesses based on those projects. Its one of the largest research centers of its kind with a 2015 budget of41 million ($46 million).Google is not disclosing the valueof its stake in the centerbut confirms that itwill give Google a seat on the DFKIs board.A Google spokesperson says that the size of the investment is equalto that taken by 16 other private companies that partner withDFKI. Existing partnersinclude industrial giants like Airbus and BMW as well as Intel, Microsoft, Nuance and SAP. Selected partnersthat also have seats on the board include Harting Technology, Empolis Information Management, andDeutsche Telekom.The DFKI claims to be the first research organizationin Europe to get an investment and board member fromGoogle. But its not the first time that Google has made AI investments in Europe, or even in academic research into AI.Googlein 2014 paid more than $500 million to acquire AI startup DeepMindin the UK. Then, the DeepMind teamacqui-hiredtwo moreAI startups and Googlemade a substantial investmentintoOxford Universitys AI research efforts. This year, Google followed on from that with an investment in Oxford Universitys Venture Fund by way of Google Ventures.For DFKI, getting Google on board will help theorganization  which operates in Kaiserslautern, Saarbrcken, BremenandBerlin  potentially get more of its research out into the market as actual products.The global market presence of Google opens up a unique opportunity, read theDFKI press statement on Googles investment. I am sure that we can revolutionize mobility, living and working for the future with the next generation of autonomous assistance systems in innovation alliances with Google and our other shareholders, notedDr. Wolfgang Wahlster, CEO of the DFKI.For Googles part, the companyhad already been making a lot of internal investments in areas like AI, deep learning, machine learning and robotics  sometimes as tools to run live services today, and sometimes as an investment for whatever Google might like to do tomorrow. Adding an investmentin the DFKI will giveGooglea direct line to external cutting-edge research in the area.The two have been working together since 2001, notedDr. Wieland Holfelder, engineering director, Google Germany. [This investment]binds us together ina long-standing close partnership.Developing research partnerships and investments in AI could also be a strategic move for Google in another way: the company has been the subject of investigations by European regulators over being too dominant in businesses like online search and mobile, and of how well it safeguards user privacy.Despite Googles efforts, a lot of this paints Google in a negative light. Google using its muscle to backcompletely new areas of technology that are at the core of Europes own digital progress agenda is one way of trying to counterbalance that.There is yet one morereason why it makes a lot of sense for Google to invest here: Getting an early look at some of the techthat has commercialpotential could also give Google an advantage over rival companiesthat want to buildup their own AI capabilities. That is a race that has also spilled into Europe, home tosome of the more interesting research into the subject. Just last week, Apple acquired VocalIQ in the UK.