Google has been testing self-driving cars for years. Six years in fact, with a fleet of 20+ self-driving cars, which have self-driven almosta million milesover that period and arenow averaging around 10,000 self-driven milesper week.So how many accidents have Googlesautonomous rides got into over that period? Eleven minor accidents, according to Googles Chris Urmson, writing in a blog post on Medium yesterday. However Urmson lays the blame for all 11 fender-bendersat the feet of the other human drivers  rather than the self-driving machines.Over the 6 years since we started the project, weve been involved in 11 minor accidents (light damage, no injuries) during those 1.7 million miles of autonomous and manual driving with our safety drivers behind the wheel, and not once was the self-driving car the cause of the accident.Going into a little more detail, Urmson says Googles driverless cars have been hit from behind seven times mainly at traffic lights but also on the freeway. Theyve also been side-swiped a couple of times and hit by a car rolling through a stop sign. While the majority of the accidents apparently occurred on city streets, rather than freeways  with Google noting its vehicles were hit eight times in many fewer miles of city driving.A lotof the discussion around the challenges posed bydriverless cars has focused on concerns about safety  such as whether on-board computerswould require programing to encourage takingevasion action that is designed to kill the least number of people, yet which might nonetheless result in a machine making deliberate choices to crash into a car with fewer occupants (and thus actively choosing to kill one set of humans to save another).So Google flagging up the dangers of human drivers offers a counterweight to that  albeit, its in the companyslong-term interests to movehumans from behind the wheel. After all, if your eyes are on the road they cant (safely) be on an advert, which is of course howMountain View fuels its business. So expect Google to keep emphasizing the fallibility of human drivers as it works to pave the way for a machine-driven future.Urmaneven goes on to cite statistics about the number of U.S. drivers checking their mobile while driving contrasting those fatally distracted humanswith the lidless vigilance of Googles four-wheeled machinesLots of people arent paying attention to the road. In any given daylight moment in America, there are 660,000 people behind the wheel who are checking their devices instead of watching the road. Our safety drivers routinely see people weaving in and out of their lanes; weve spotted people reading books, and even one playing a trumpet. A self-driving car has people beat on this dimension of road safety. With 360 degree visibility and 100% attention out in all directions at all times; our newest sensors can keep track of other vehicles, cyclists, and pedestrians out to a distance of nearly two football fields.He also notesthat Google is amassing a wealth of driving data which he suggests could be used to identify dangerous situations before an accident happens  such asidentifying patterns of driver behavior (lane-drifting, red-light running) that are leading indicators of significant collisions.The next step, presumably, would be for Googles driverless algorithms to take pre-emptive evasive action to steer clear of future collisions, based on big data mining of these warning signs of impending collisions.