Although Googles investment arm, Google Ventures, only opened its London office in July 2014 setting aside an initial $100 million to invest in startups across Europe itsnow abandoning theidea of running separate funds, according to CEO Bill Maris.Speaking in an interview in todaysFT,Maris said the fundwants to have more flexibility in whereit invests  so will be pooling its investments into a single global vehicle next year.Weve reached out to Google Ventureswith questionsand will be updating this story as we learn more.Update:A spokesperson for GV confirmed it willbe operating as a global fund starting in January, telling TechCrunch: This gives us more flexibility and dollars to invest in the best founders and companies, regardless of where they are based, and reduces limitations of a specific fund size. Aside from this, its business as usual for the team in London  nothing else changes.The fundhas made more than 300 investments overall since being founded back in 2009. But the European armhas been relatively quiet since launching, making only a handful (six) of investments so far.One of the initial partners, Peter Read, also departedlast July,a year in.The full complement of initial partners (including Read) discussed theirinvestment strategyon stage at TechCrunch Disrupt London in October 2014, soon after the launch, with Eze Vidra, saying at the time: We are not focusing in any one country in particular. Innovation is truly global.It seems Google Venturesis now taking Vidras words at face value, although it remains to be seen how it will go about apportioning funds tostartups in the U.S. vs startups in the rest of the world.Although Google has confirmed it will continue operating its London office  having a regional base is surelyimportant for deal flow.Since opening its London office in July 2014almost all of Google Ventures European investmentshave been in the U.K.  and almost allof those in London, where its U.K.office was located. The exception isStockholm-based VR gaming startup, Resolution Games  the fundled a$6 million Series A into the company this August.Back inJulyGoogle Ventures joined a $60 million round in U.K.-based members-onlytravel startup Secret Escapes. Itsother U.K.investments are in music licensing platform specialistKobalt;personalised book publisher Lost My Name;andemail conversions marketing tech businessYieldify.It also invested in the Oxford Science Innovation Fund, which is looking to back high tech business spinning out of the U.K.s Oxford University.To date the vast majority of Google Venturesinvestments have been in the U.S./Silicon Valley.Portfolio companies include Uber, Nest (now owned by Google), Periscope, Udacity, Pocket and PlanGrid, to name a few.Google Ventures is also rebranding as GV, in part toput a little more clear blue water between it and parent company Google (aka Alphabet)  to tackle the perception of a conflict of interest. Heconcedes rivals have always accused the fund of being a secret cloak-and-dagger unit of Google.The minute that happens were done  thats the end of the business, he told the paper. There is not a single case that supports that mythology. The company gets no information from us, were a shareholder just like any other. My interests are aligned with entrepreneurs and the other shareholders and not Google.