Googlesplan to eliminate passwords in favor of systems that take into account a combination ofsignals  like your typing patterns, your walking patterns, your current location, and more  will be available to Android developers by year-end, assuming all goes well in testing this year. In an under-the-radar announcement Fridayafternoon at the Google I/O developer conference, the head of Googles research unit ATAP (Advanced Technology and Projects)Daniel Kaufman offereda brief updateregarding the status of ProjectAbacus, the name for asystem thatopts for biometrics over two-factor authentication.As you may recall, Project Abacus was first introduced at Google I/O last year, where it was described as an ambitious plan to move the burden of passwords and PINs from the user to the device.Today, secure logins  like those used by banks or in the enterprise environment  often require more than just a username and password. They tend to also require the entry of a unique PIN, which is generallysent to your phone via SMS or emailed. This is commonly referred to as two-factor authentication, as it combines something you know (your password) with something you have in your possession, like your phone.With Project Abacus, users would instead unlock devices or sign into applications based on a cumulative Trust Score. This scorewouldbe calculated using a variety of factors, including your typing patterns, current location, speed and voice patterns, facial recognition, and other things.Google has already implemented similar technology on Android devices (running Android 5.0 and higher) called Smart Lock, which lets you automatically unlock your device when youre in a trusted location, have a trusted Bluetooth device connected, when youre carrying your device, orwhen the device recognizes your face. (Smart Lock for Passwords, meanwhile, simply saves passwords to websitesand apps,and auto-fills them for you upon your next visit.)Project Abacus is a bit different. Itruns in the background on your device tocontinually collect data about you to form its Trust Score.This score is basically about howconfident it is that you are who you say you are. If your score isnt high enough, apps could revert back to asking for passwords. ATAP had also said previously that apps could require different Trust Scores. For example, your bank might require a higher score than a mobile game.Above: Project Abacuss debut at Google I/O 2015We have a phone, and these phones have all these sensors in them. Why couldnt it just know who I was, so I dont need a password? I should just be able to work, explained Kaufman Fridayafternoon at Google I/O, describing the problem with password-based authentication.He said that engineers in Googles search and machine intelligence groups have sinceturned Project Abacuss ideas intosomething called Trust API, and this APIis entering testing with banks starting next month.In June, several very large financial institutions will begin their initial testing of the Trust API, said Kaufman.And assuming it goes well, this should become available to every Android developer around the world by the end of the year, he added.Kaufman quickly moved on to other ATAP projects, like its connected clothing, modular smartphone,radar sensors, and more. Andwhile the other technologies are fun to contemplate, this Trust API, as its called, could introduce more of a real-world change in how users interact with apps on their smartphones. Plus, it offers a new way of securing the content in apps  if someone who was not you gained access to your phone and was able to unlock it, all the apps could be locked down automatically simply because that person, as determined by the software, was not you.Last year, the company said that Project Abacus was in trials with 33 universities across 28 states. Bringing it to banks is a significant step forward. And by making it something Android developers can implement in their own apps by year-end, Google could have its own unique advantage in terms of user authentication to compete with rival systems, Apples fingerprint-based TouchID.