Google hasbeen making gradualprogress expanding its payments services outside of the U.S. market,withP2P money transfer servicesnow working in the UK and a deal with Visa Europe to expand Android Pay acceptance in 37 countries on the continent. In the meantime, its also working on ways of inchingcloser to European merchants and their payments strategies.Today, Ingenico, one of the worlds biggest makers of point-of-sale hardware and payment acceptance services, announced that it is working with the search giant on a new program called the Export Accelerator, a cross-border selling initiative, with the first pilotof the service in Belgium.WhileIngenico does build POS hardware that works with services like Apple Pay, this partnership does not currently integrateany Android Pay or Google Wallet functionality. Rather, Google will tap into itssearch analytics to provide business intelligence to merchants.The news comes at an interesting time for Google on the e-commerce front. On one hand, thecompany is planning to adda buy button to paidsearch results, giving browsers a way of buying products directly within those results rather than navigating elsewhere, and Google getting a cut in the process.But on the other, itsGoogle Shopping service is currently being investigated by European regulations over antitrust violations  specifically claims that Googles own vertical e-commerce search engine is anticompetitive versus other online marketplaces when it comes to searches for products.Our preliminary view in the [statement of objections]is that in its general Internetsearch results Google artificiallyfavors its own comparison shopping service and that this constitutes an abuse, Europes antitrust chief, Competition CommissionerMargrethe Vestager said whenher office issued its formal Google Shopping statement of objections in April.In other words, whileGoogle is certainly looking at ways of extending its search results with transactions and getting closer to merchants and their advertising budgets,it would be an awkward time for the companyto expand thoseservices to include payment options to merchants in Europe specifically.If Google finds a way through the regulatory investigations, this lays some groundwork for working further with Ingenico. On the other side, the partnershipcould also point to ways that Google may build out business services for e-commerce companies, were the company ever forced by regulators tochange how it operates its search results.Export Accelerator focuses on a selling modelthat is especially persistent in the European market. In a region with many separate but conjoiningcountries, consumers are more likely to roam across borders for work and leisure; and online, are also potentially buying products online across borders as well.Trying to solve that effectively kills three birds with one stone: Merchants, especially smaller merchants, may be missing out on the internationalopportunity as a way to growtheir business  and both Ingenico and Google in turn aremissing out on the transactional and ad revenues they could get as a result.The Export Accelerator is a great way to help Belgian businesses to grow online. Businesses that invest in online grow twice as fast as companies that dont. Its our goal to inspire as many Belgian entrepreneurs as possible to make use of the opportunities provided by the web. There are 11 million consumers in Belgium; the 2.5 billion potential consumers worldwide provide a huge export opportunity. This collaboration with Ingenico Group will make it easier for Belgian businesses to tap into that potential. said Thierry Geerts, country director Google Belgium, in a statement.The other interesting thing about this partnership is how it plays on ways that Google may growits analytics business. Online merchants will use Google data to identify export opportunities leveraging search insights, and will also use the data to help build their traffic. Ingenico, meanwhile, will provide solutions to successfully convert this traffic into sales via its payment expertise and advanced technologies. This will cover payments, payment analytics, fraud data and risk management.We are very pleased to team up with Google and to leverage our position in the payment ecosystem, commented Stephen Buechner, EVP e-payments at Ingenico Group, in a statement. This cooperation demonstrates our ability to continue to simplify payment for merchants while helping them to easily and securely expand across borders.We have reached out both to Google and Ingenico for more information about the partnership, including how its structured as a business, and will update as we learn more.