While Amazon is expanding its logistics and delivery business to complement its e-commerce portal, Google is working on ways to make its search experience online more like Amazons to grow the number of people who use Google to look for and buy products. Today Google announced that it isturning on Product Ratingsinthe UK, France and Germany.Product ratings, first launched in the U.S. last year, are essentially Googles play at making its search results look less static, and more like Amazons, to the average consumer.To do this, Google appends user reviews to products that are surfaced in basic Google search results or those that come up through Google Shopping searches. The reviews appear in the form of stars (up to five gold stars) plus a number aggregating specific pieces of feedback.To some extent, Google can claim to be a more inclusive experience when it comes to ratings.As with the U.S. rollout, Google is aggregatingdata in Europefrom differentsources including merchants, third-party aggregators, editorial sites and users, writesArchana Kannan, a product manager forGoogle Shopping.Third-party aggregators includeBazaarvoice,eKomi,Feefo,PowerReviews,Reevoo,TurnTo,Verified Reviews,Yotpo, andTrustpilot.There is definitely some push and pull in this space.On the one hand, Google claims that these product reviews work: since the product ratings were launched in the U.S. last July, it notes that the click-through rate on Product Listing Ads has gone up by 5%. Part of this can be attributed to those product reviews: userscan click through to get more information about a product, butalso to see more details about specific feedback.On the side of brands and merchants, adding product reviews is a way for Google to sweeten the deal when it comes to decisions about where to advertise and product. Customers look for product validation through reviews and ratings. Providing this info is valuable to our customers and provides The Home Depot with a competitive advantage on Google,Dave Abbott, Vice President of Online Marketing for The Home Depot, noted in Googles blog post.But its not always an easy play for Google: by doing this, the search giant, and not the business selling the product, essentially becomes the central repository for all that aggregatedcustomer data. That will also probably alarm some consumers who already feel like Google has too much power over their data.The new feature also brings to mind another bigger issue for Google in Europe. Currently the search giantis under investigation byregulators over antitrust violations.Specifically, regulators are looking at how Googlehandles vertical searches on its site and whether its approach is anticompetitive because of how it surfaces results from competitors in specific fields like travel, maps, restaurants and more alongside Googles own results. Higher click-throughs for Google, after all, mean more revenue for Google, so it behooves the company to put these at the top and make them more attractive.So it will be interesting to see how and if the new product reviewsfeature figures in that ongoing debate.So far, in my attempts to find starred reviews, Ive had mixed success. Some categories I cant find any at all, so I think it is still early days for the service.Google says that merchants interested in adding reviews should fill out thisproduct ratings form.