You may have never heard of it, but if you are a Chrome user, chancesare youve used Googles QUIC protocol already. As Google disclosed this week, about half ofall requests from Chrome to Googles servers are now served over QUIC.So whats the big deal here? QUIC is Googles experimental, low-latency Internet transportation protocol over UDP, a protocol that isoften used by gaming, streaming media and VoIP services. The name QUIC stands for Quick UDP Internet Connection.UDPs (and QUICs) counterpart in the protocol world is basically TCP(which in combination with the Internet Protocol (IP)makes upthe core communication language of the Internet). UDP is significantly more lightweight than TCP, but in return, it features far fewer error correction services than TCP. This means that the sending server isnt constantly talking to the receiving server to checkif packages arrived and if they arrived in the right order, for example. Thats why UDP is great for gaming services.For these services, you want low overhead to reduce latency andif the server didnt receive your latest mouse movement, theres no need to spend a second or two to fix that because the action has already moved on. You wouldnt want to use it to request a website, though, becauseyou couldnt guarantee that all the data would make it.With QUIC, Google aims to combine some of the best features of UDP and TCP with modern security tools.On a typical secure TCP connection,it typically takes two or three round-trips before the browser can actually start receiving data. Using QUIC, a browser can immediately start talking to a server it has talked to before.QUIC also introduces a couple of new features like congestion control and automatic re-transmission, making it more reliable that pure UDP.With SPDY, which later became the basis for the HTTP/2 standard, Google already developedanother alternative protocol thathad many of the same goals as QUIC, but HTTP/2still runs over TCP and still runs into some of the same latency cost.Its reasonable to askwhy Google doesnt just work on improving TCP instead then. The problem here, the company points out, is that TCP support is often built directly into operating system kernels  and thats not something Google has any control over. QUIC allows us to test and experiment with new ideas, and to get results sooner, the team writes in explaining its decision. We are hopeful that QUIC features will migrate into TCP and TLS if they prove effective. Given how many Windows XP installs are still out there, its obviously not something that will happen overnight.If Google designed a whole new protocol, then allof the machines that make up the backbone of the Internetwould also have to understand it  but they already understand UDP.Google says that ithas seen about a three percent improvement in mean page load times with QUIC on Google Search. That doesnt sound like a lot, but you have to remember that Google Search is already about as optimized as possible. Other sites  and especially latency-heavy web apps will likely see better improvements.Users who connect to YouTube over QUIC report about 30 percent fewer rebuffers when watching videos and because of QUICs improved congestion control and loss recover over UDP, users on some of the slowest connection also see improved page load times with QUIC.Google says it plans to propose HTTP2-over-QUIC to the IETF as a new Internet standard in the future.In someways, this mirrors Googles work with SPDY. There, too, the company first prototyped the protocol using Chrome and its own servers and then later proposed it as the basis of the new version of HTTP.If you want to see ifyour connection to Chrome uses QUIC, by the way, here is a browser extension that can tell you and you can find all thedetails about Chromes QUIC usage under the net-internals flag (chrome://net-internals/#quic).