Google has announced its working on a 10.2 inch tablet called the Pixel C at its Nexus event in SF today.The slate was revealed by product management exec Andrew Bowers, who talked up both the play and productivity aspectsof the forthcoming addition to GooglesPixel line-up.Unlike prior Pixels, this slate runs Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) not Googles Chrome OS. Its also, well, a tablet and not a laptop (like earlier Pixels)  although its flagship featureis a detachable keyboard accessory, whichattaches via magnets,fora full Qwertytyping experience, too.Tablets often force you back to a laptop when you want to write a document or respond to a long email, saidBowers, explaining Googles thinking with the Pixel Cs snap-on keyboard design. And while there are plenty of keyboard accessories, they are often just that  theyre accessories. They have cramped keyboards, require you to use them on a desk, or get in the way when you dont want to type.In the case of tablets, we asked ourselves what would an ideal touch plus typing experience look like? Something where the screen and the keyboard complement each other, he added, noting that the C in the name stands for Convertible.We think the Pixel Cs tablet and keyboard experience really unlocks new ways to both play and be productive on one device.When closed, the keyboard and tablet are held together with self aligning magnets. When you want to convert it to tying mode, the screenlifts off and attaches to a flap at the back of the keyboard. This is adjustable so the screen angle can be tiltedbetween 100 and 135 degrees.Theres no kickstand or clasp mechanism to get in your way, added Bowers  taking a little side-swipe at Microsofts original Surface slate (which has a kickstand). Its very easy to use in your lap. You can use it on the bed, you can use it on the couch, wherever you want to use the device.The physical keyboardlayout has been tweaked slightly to save space  with fivelesser-used symbol keys removed so they are only available on the touchscreen keyboard.The physical keyboardlinks to the Pixel via Bluetooth so it does containa battery, but Bowers asserted that users willnever have to charge it  because the tablet inductively charges the Pixel Cs keyboard when closed. If you forget to close it, the keyboard will still last for over two months of daily active usage on its battery before needing to be juiced, according to Google.Bowerssaid the Pixel C will be released in time for the holidays, and sold via the Google Store, with a price-tag of $499 for the tablet and $149 for the keyboard. So thats $648 if youre going all in.The original Chromebook Pixel was released back in February 2013 with Google pairing itsown-brand, high-end laptop hardware with Chrome OS in a bid to drive interest in its cloud-based operating system.There was a pretty high-end price tag too, although two years on the laptop wasstill as shiny but with a slightly squeezed price.The Pixel C is no lesspremium in the looks department, with an all-metal enclosure  which Bowers touted as sturdy and solid in yourhands. Indeed, it has a similar look to Microsofts Surface tablet, which also comes with a keyboard cover accessory(although the Surface keyboard is a little less high end/more colorful in the looks department).On the specs front, the Pixel Cs high-res display packs in308ppi  so Google is aiming for the kind of pixel-free viewing Apple touts with its Retina displays and offers 500 nits on the brightness front.Under the hood theres anNVIDIA X1 quad-core processor and a desktop class Maxwell GPU, and 3GB of RAM.Thats a lot of graphics horsepower in a mobile device. Youll see that games really shine, added Bowers.Also on board: stereo speakers on either side of the screen, with an eye on the movie viewing experience. And four microphones to power Android voice interactions from across the room. It also includesUSB Type-C for charging. Battery life was not specifically quantified  beyond Bowers saying its great for a tablet. He added that Google would be revealing more details about the slate in the coming months ahead of launch.