WhileGoogle continues to work through implementing Right To Be Forgotten legislation in Europe, there are some more developments around how Google handles consumer data and privacy. Thesearch giant has reached an agreement with the UKs Information Commissioners Office over how it collects personal data in the country, signing and publishing a lengthy document outlining its commitment to make changes to its current privacy policy (the one first unveiled in January 2012 and implementedin March 2012 in Europe, which basically pulled together 70 of Googlesexistingprivacy policies).The changes, the biggest of whichwill be completedby June 2015 , will put Google in line with the UKs Data Protection Act, and will also see the company taking steps over the next two years for further improvements. It will also carry out user testing in the process. Were embedding the full document below.In a statement, Steve Eckersley, head of enforcement at the ICO, pointed out that Google had not been found to cause substantial damage and distress to consumers but that the changes were necessary anyway:This undertaking marks a significant step forward following a long investigation and extensive dialogue. Googles commitment today to make these necessary changes will improve the information UK consumers receive when using their online services and products.Whilst our investigation concluded that this case hasnt resulted in substantial damage and distress to consumers, it is still important for organisations to properly understand the impact of their actions and the requirement to comply with data protection law. Ensuring that personal data is processed fairly and transparently is a key requirement of the Act.This investigation has identified some important learning points not only for Google, but also for all organisations operating online, particularly when they seek to combine and use data across services. It is vital that there is clear and effective information available to enable users to understand the implications of their data being combined. The detailed agreement Google has signed setting out its commitments will ensure that.The settlement document, co-signed by Googles general counsel/SVP Kent Walker and UK information commissioner Christopher Graham, is not quickreading. The majority of it is a rundown of what has happened in the last three years, from the introduction of Googles policy, explaining what it does, and how the ICO started to investigate it. Probably the most important part of it for nowisthe list of seven commitments that Google has made for what it will do in the future:Google has been in the spotlightin Europe over regulatory issues for years. The biggest of these have been in the arena of antitrust, and specificallythecompanys dominance inareas like search and online advertising. These investigations are still ongoing, after the previous antitrust commissioners provisional settlement with Google was so roundly criticised for being too weak that it was sent back for further scrutiny. Now, with a new commissioner at the helm, we are effectively back at or near square one.Separately, Googlehas been under a lot of scrutinyover how it handles personal data. People are stilldebating whether the RTBF rules  which effectively mean that Google and other search companies have to remove links in its search results for private individuals if those individuals request them to be taken down  violate freedom of information, or are the fairest way of ensuring individual control over our privacy. (Companies like Wikipedia are interestingly in opposition to RTBF.)In the meantime, Google is still fighting how it can carry out the privacy policy introduced in 2012. It has faced trouble in Europe before: in 2013, the data protection authority in Holland also ruled that Google had violated its policies and forced the company to change how it discloses information to consumers in the country.Document below. More tocome.