Toacquire more Google Apps for Workcustomers, Google just announced a new promotion thats a hugeshot across Microsofts bow. The company says that it will give interested customers access to Google Apps for Work for free, while theyre still under an enterprise agreement (EA) with another provider. While Google didnt call outMicrosoft or IBM by name when making the announcement, its well understoodthat these are the top competitors for its Google Apps productivity suite and related tools.In addition, Google directlyreferences the two competitorson its offer page for the new promotion.According to a Google blog post, the company will cover the fees associated with Google Apps for Work until the customers existing contract runs out. And it says it will chip in on some of the deployment costs following the earlier contracts expiration, byalso connecting the new customer with a Google for Work Partner.The company claims that customers can see cost savings of up to 70 percent by switching. This figure is based on a basic Microsoft Enterprise Agreement, Google explains(PDF) on the Google Apps website.There are some caveats, of course. Google is capping the amount it covers for deployment at $25 per user, so the cost to switch is not necessarily going to be zero. However, there will be no bill for Google Apps for Workuntil the prior EA runs out.Microsoft, of course, has been making some fierce inroads of its own with its Office 365 software. For example, this summer it gained a huge win by signing up GE to deploy its platform to its more than300,000 employees worldwide. GE, notably, had been one of the earliercustomers to deploy Google Apps in years past. That meantMicrosofts ability to bring them back to the fold was sort of a double punch for Google.Google didnt say how long this promotion would be available, but its only offered to those customers in the U.S. or Canada, at present. Meanwhile, the company says its working on bringing the offer to global markets in the future.Google Apps for Work, which includes Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Forms, and Drive along with calendaring and communications tools like Gmail, Hangouts, Calendar, and more, as well as an ITdashboard for management, starts at $5 per user per month, or increases to $10 per user per month for unlimited storage space and Vault, a system for eDiscovery of emails, chats, docs and files.By taking on the costs associated with an EA  a tool Microsoft uses to keep customers locked into contracts for longer periods of time in return for better pricing  Google is fighting back against one of Microsofts most powerful tools associated with retention.