Flat video is so last century and GoPro is pulling out all the stops. Through a series of product launches  most recently the new Omni the company signals that ithas your back in the battle against bi-dimensionalconsumption of moving pictures. The strategy confirms the obvious  i.e. thatit knows which way the wind is blowing. But I think its too little, too late.With the new Omni, you can combine the power of six HERO4 Black cameras to shoot full 360 degree video; perfect for immersive video experiences, VR and photometry use cases.GoPro OdysseyOmni was first announcedat CES earlier this year, but is being demoed live for the first time at the NAB conference in Vegas in a couple of weeks  one of the biggest shows in video and multimedia content production.Full-surround systems for GoPro are not a new thing  there have been quite a few attempts to string together a ton of the GoPro cameras to create camera arrays.GoPro itself has been promoting itsGoPro Spherical solutions over the past year, too, with special channels dedicated to itsGoPro VR kit on YouTubeand more spherical video featured on its Facebook page, as well.Last year, the company announced a partnership with Googles Jump platform in the form of the GoPro Odyssey. The device looks sexy as all heaven (if youre into that sort of thing). It comeswith no fewer than 16 GoPro cameras and a bank-breaking $15,000 price tag. Obviously, the target audience veersdeep into specialist markets that require stereoscopic 360 video (the Omni only does monoscopic video).If spending $15,000 on a surround video kit doesnt fill you with tingly sensations, theres also been the other extreme: Building your own. There are a lot of plans and guides available online for how to 3D print or build your own rigs out of metal, wood or perspex  with some solutions being more elegant than others. The problem with these solutions has been the synchronization between the cameras, both in terms of frame rate (ensuring that each camera is shooting video frames at the same time at exactly the same number of frames per second) and alignment (making sure the cameras are adjusted just soto create a seamless 360-degree experience is an exercise in fine-engineering or some seriously hard-core post-processing efforts).Plans and CAD drawings for DIY, 3D printed rigs have been available for a while, such as this version of a 360 Video GoPro rig by FrilobaGoPro haskept a tight lid on the pricing and availability of Omni, but given that six GoPros on their own will set you back around $3,000  and the fact that a comparable rig already exists for around $600its reasonable to expect a price tag of around $3,500 for the full kit, including cameras. If you already have a ton of GoPro cameras kicking about, youll be able to save some cash by buying the Omni kit without the cameras, too.Samsung is going big on VR, too, with Google Street View compatible pictures spawned by its Gear 360 cameraWhile it is exciting that its possible to use theserelatively high-quality GoPro cameras for VR purposes, I cant help but wonder whether it might be too little, too late; there are a lot of other VR cameras in the marketplace already, with more being launched on an almost-weekly basis. GoPro is going to be feeling the pressure from all sides.The bottom end of the 360-degree-video marketis well-served by established players likeRicohs Theta S,Kodaks SP360 action camera and Samsungs Gear 360.Got $150K handy? This 42-camera rig will give you a gigapixel worth of resolution. Woof.In addition to the incumbents, there are a host of smaller startups, including360 Fly, the $800 Bublcam, the upcoming $1,000 Vuze camera, the $500 Allie Home camera, Sphericams $3,000second-generation 360 cameraand Giroptics $500 360cam.What allthese cameras have in common is that they are all-in-one solutions that deliver video thats ready to use. That makes them vastly easier and faster in a production environment: theydont have the challenges inherent in multi-camera setups, and its operators wont need to collect several memory cards, sync, stitch and render the video before its ready for editing.GoProis going to be feeling the pressure onthe high end as well. You can easily spend $150,000 on a high-end off-the-shelf 360-degree video rig, and if youre going the custom-built route, the sky is the limit: There areplenty of experts in Hollywood who will buildanything you want. None of that might sound like a true challenger  $150,000 is a lot more than $4,500  but the truth is that there are much more affordable solutions available  and they are dropping in price rapidly.Using the six 4k cameras in an Omni rig will give you a lot more resolution to play with than an all-in-one camera, and the productmay just hit the sweet spot for the rapidly expanding VR video crowd, but in placing itselfin this exact place in the market, the company isputting itselfin a really scary place indeed: Not entry-level enough for mainstream, and not high-end enough for professionals.The problem GoPro is facing is that they havent done anything innovative in a long time. The cameras are good enough, and becoming synonymous with action cameras wont have done their salesany harm, but at the heart of it, GoProis essentially selling commodity hardware at a tremendous markup. Sales figures  and its corresponding stock price challenges  are telling a story allits own.Without a history of innovation on the camera side (Hero Session doesnt count), and no evidenceof a high-quality all-in-one solution in the pipeline, GoPro is between a rock and a hard place. The cheaper, simpler all-in-one cameras are a credible threat for many use cases, and as quality (and especially resolution) improves, defending a multi-camera set-up is going to get harder and harder. Simultaneously, the high-end multi-camera solutions will be dropping in price, and become a good alternativefor users who are playing the quality ber alles game.Launching a six-camera setup rig like the Omni is a ballsy move, Ill give them that, but I cant help but feel that this is a short-term play in a long-term industry. It may help a little bit, but in order to survive in this market, theyd better have something far more impressive up their sleeve, and soon.