Graphic India, a Bangalore-based digital media company, has landed$2.8million tocontinue itsquest to develop acomic and animation business that represents India and Indian culture.Thefunding round was led byThe Chernin Group via its Asia-focusedCA Media arm. Itincluded participation from New York-basedStart Mediaand a range ofangel investors, including games firm Backflip Studios founders Julian Farrior and DaleThoms. Graphic India raised a $2.5 million seed round from CA Media last year.Indian comics and superheroes arent something that we often hear about or see, and thats exactly what the startup, which was founded in 2013 and is owned by U.S. holding company Liquid Comics, is aiming to change.Sharad Devarajan, CEO and co-founder of Liquid Comics and Graphic India, told TechCrunch in an interview that the money will be used to continue to create content, and develop a digital platform to showcase Graphic Indias library of comics, cartoons and films.Mobile is the opportunity to build and control a direct audience, to build the comic book fanboy in India. There are 550 million people in this country aged under 25 whove never been served with content that speaksto them in this way,Devarajan said.The startup has, to date, devotedits time and resources to developing acatalog of content and gaining distribution via third parties in the industry. That includes a partnership with Rovio, distribution deals with Cartoon Network in India, and 10 film licensing deals. Thats not to mention actual contentfrom acclaimed cartoonistStan Lee,Batman writer Grant Morrison, and a host of others.Lee and Morrison are just two of the prominentglobal figures who have also lent their know-howto helping Graphic Indias homegrown talent develop and hone its skills. That experience, coupled with the founding teams wide network of contacts in U.S.  American-bornDevarajan is an industry veteranwhofoundedVirgin Comics with Richard Branson, then bought it out and renamed it Liquid  has helped Graphic India produce content thatDevarajan believes is at least as good as that of its U.S. peers.Thequality weve produced Ithink hasnt been seen in India before. The packaging, execution and delivery has to be among the best in the world, he said.To date, Graphic India has sold its comics via Amazon (both the global and in India services) and domestic retail giant Flipkart. That, in addition to TV network coverage, has helped give the company credentials among the industry and proof that its work is good well received bymainstream audiences in India and worldwide. The next step is to build out its own direct audience.Devarajan praised Vice, Rovio and others who have build out platforms of their own to house their content, and thats very much his ambition for Graphic India.The Marvel of today would be focused on digital, he explained. [Content creators]are no longeras dependent on third party gatekeepers thanks to mobile.Graphic Indias mobile platform is likely to consist of a number of different pillars. It already has an active presence on YouTube, but is planning fully immersive apps with e-book and video componentsbuilt right in. That mobile push will be Android first,Devarajan said, because that is the platform that generates the greatest reach in India.The company is also planning to exploit Facebooks popularity in Indiaby developing a dedicated Facebook app for its comics and cartoons. This, combined with mobile, is designed to give the company its own independent means to build an audience.By this time next year, we want to be in a position with millions of engaged fans on a monthly basis,Devarajan said, explaining that this would give the company an opportunity to flip the switch and explore business models that monetize its content.Were still in startup mode and dont want to make this a quickly profitable company,Devarajan added. Instead, the goal isto seize the opportunity around the rapidly growing adoption ofmobile in Indiato nurturea cartoon fanbase and community  with Graphic India, of course, at the heart of it.India is sitting on some great stories and creativity which has been outsourced to others. We want to find the next JK Rowling or Stan Lee who is sitting in a village somewhere, and tell them to stop coloring in Tinkerbell drawings and get creative, he said.