GSF India, the Bangalore-headquartered accelerator program and angel investment firm, is broadening its scopetocover young startups in Indias internet of things space. The organization has partnered global tech giant Cisco for batch four ofits incubator program  and, importantly, extended the deadline for applications until March 17.The organization was founded twoyears ago by serial angel investor Rajesh Sawhney, who saw the potential to invest in the early stage of Indias startup ecosystem with a Techstars-like program.Initially, GSF India focused broadly on mobile and internet tech in India, but now  having added a focus on digital media, last year  Sawhneyis extending the reach towhat he thinks will be the next big trend in India.[Adding a focuson the internet of things]feels like when Ifirst started, he told TechCrunch in an interview, revealing that hed met with over 50 IoT startups in India. We had some idea of what wed find but were not exactly sure. This feels like an adventure  there will be a lot of innovationcoming in this area from this segment in this partof the world.Adding Cisco as a partner, Sawhneysaid,will help tap into the tech giants knowledge base, and could unlock doors for GSF India participants.The term internet of things conjures up images of wearables or perhaps smart home tech like Nest, but Sawhneyenvisages a far wider scope for GSF Indias newest category.It isntjust hardware, there are also [opportunities in] software and big data. For example,home automation and water management, or manufacturing andshop floor technology. There arealso some startups in the security space, and afew in the smart city space, he said.Beyond focusing on new categories, GSF India also takes a global approach to its program, and thats no different with batch four.The program will take four to five companies in each of itsthree categories  mobile, digital media and internet of things  for a four-month spell. In addition to providing$45,000 to each startup selected, the group gains access to GSF Indias mentor network, and will spend a significant partof the course overseas.The batch will be anchored inBangalore, and after seven weeks in India they will visitthe U.S. for a month,primarily spending time in Silicon Valley. Germany, and Ciscos internet of things center, is the next stop for a week. The program willround out with a week in Singapore in July.GSF Indias workshops will operate using parallel tracks foreachcategory, but Sawhneysaid the idea is to help them feed on ideas and innovation from each other.Going to the U.S. and Europe makes sense for exposing young companies to different ecosystems, but Shawney said that a stint in Southeast Asia is equally as valuable.Singapore is important because its a gateway to SoutheastAsia, he explained. Our startups can attract investment there, [and some graduated startups] have now expanded using Singapore to launch in multiple markets. Iwant our batchto learn and build relationships it could be fertile ground for Indian startups to expand.The concept of Internet of Things currently sounds very U.S.-centric, given that most of the most prominent companies are based Stateside, but Sawhneybelieves that the category is ripe for localization, and particularly in India where the government is pushing a focus on smart cities. Not to mention that the local startup scene is beginning to boom with increasing investment and acquisition deals, andtalent arriving from overseas.Smart accelerators should see the trends earlier, thats why were investing in this and building a portfolio and companies that will be ready for venture capital in a few years. Theres no rear-view mirror driving, butat the same time you cant be out of sync with the market, he said of the challenges ofrunning GSF India.