Guildery, an e-commerce company thats putting technology to use by offering digitally printed fabrics and other home accessories like pillows, drapes, ottomans, and more, has closed on $2.1 million in seed funding from Forerunner Ventures, Cowboy Ventures, SoftTech and AOLs BBG Ventures*. The funding comes at a time when Guilderyis also expanding its retail presence and is preparing toroll out new online tools that will allow consumers to customize the colors of the fabrics offered on its site.Founded in late 2013 byShane Reilly, ex-founder ofDecorati, acquired by Gilt Groupe, and Kelly Berger, ex-technical co-founder of Tinyprints,acquired by Shutterfly,Guildery launched to solve a problem that consumers often face when it comes to decorating their own homes. That is, many people dont know how to putcolors and patterns together in order to complete a room.On the Guildery website, the company offers a range of collections in varying styles that simplify decorating. Using an online editor, website visitors can virtually drape fabrics over individual items to see how they look, as well as place items next to each other in order to see how a particular piece pairs with another. For instance, you couldvisually see the ottoman, drapes and lampshade youre interested in next to each other to get a sense of how they would look in your own home. Its like anonline representation of a designers color or mood board, basically.But what really defines Guildery as a tech startupis its backend, which has now been upgraded. In most fabric houses, acompany wouldtake in the artwork from the designer  a pattern, a scan, etc.  and then put in a lot of manual labor into creating the actual pattern.Since were a tech company, weve built the whole process for taking in the art file and being able to do all of that work automatically on the backend, explains Reilly.But the most important thing is that in terms of scaling the business, the fact that we can now offer any pattern in any color or any combination of colors  thats were you get hundreds of thousands of combinations for any single pattern.At launch, the company featured 40,000 different SKUs across its product lines, but with the upcoming launch of its custom design tools, that selection, as noted above, will grow significantly. All the combinationswont be displayed to website visitors, of course  instead, consumers will be able to pick and choose new colors for the fabrics on the Guildery site using simple tools. They can customize the fabrics using the companys own pre-configured palettes, or can start from scratch using their own colors.And because colors online may vary from those in real life, shoppers arealso able to request customer printed fabric samples, as well as swatch books.According to Reilly, the company has also expanded the number of designers whose work it licenses to over 100, up from 40 at the time of the sites debut. As each designer brings many designs to Guildery, that means the product selection in terms of prints has expanded, as well.Reilly declined to say how many customers have ordered on Guildery or detail itssales volume, but the companys pricing comes in at the higher end of the market for now  similar in pricing to something like Restoration Hardware.Its belowthe cost of a design center, she says, but its not cheap, either.While being able to customize fabrics online is a handy feature, Guildery is also pursuing a retail strategy. The company has launched its own pop-up shop in Los Altos, Calif., where customers can see products in person and coordinate with items they own, or even bring in samples, photos, or paint chips and receive special assistance.Another retailer in San Francisco, Anyon Atelier, is additionally piloting the companys wholesaler program by launching a shop-within-a-shop, which will feature Guildery products. The idea is that retailers and boutiques will be able to order from the site at a discount to sell to consumers who shopping at brick-and-mortar stores. But sincethey have the ability to order custom fabrics, no retailer has tohave the exact same selections as another, Reilly notes.Currently a team of ten full-time, Guildery will use the new funding to hire technical and marketing staff and continue building its platform.*Disclosure: TechCrunchs parent company is AOL. Waitactually its Verizon now.