One of the technology worlds most notorious providers of surveillance and intrusion software has found itselfon the wrong end of an embarrassing hack.A range of sensitive documents belonging to Italy-based Hacking Team, which is known forworking with governments worldwide, appeared to leak out over the weekend, including email communications and client lists.The hackers, who remain unidentified at this time, also took over the groups Twitter account, using it to post screenshots of emails and other details, as CSO first reported.Hacking Team is a mysterious organization which has long been thought to sell tracking and hacking software togovernments, particularly those in developing markets. The organization describes itself as providing effective, easy-to-use offensive technology to the worldwide law enforcement and intelligence communities.One tool that it is known to offer is Davinci, a service marketed at law enforcement organization that can purportedly access SMS, emails, web browsing and more to locate specific targets.Last year, the organization denied selling technology to any repressive regime following a report from a report from Citizen Lab, but early leaks of the files  which weigh it at over 400GB  appear to show government contracts withKazahkstan, Sudan, Russia, Saudi Arabia and others.Hacking Team never sold to Sudan? Here's the instructions for the 480,000 Euro wire transfer. cc @hackingteam pic.twitter.com/JqexHpvb3s Eva (@evacide) July 6, 2015In addition, it seemsthat the company also sold software to private companies. That was something that it denied doing in the past.Yup, I guess @hackingteam really did sell their RCS Exploit software to private companies in Brazil. pic.twitter.com/1ZYLiwC5LX John Adams (@netik) July 6, 2015Further email correspondence appears toshow Hacking Team acknowledge that it supplied technology to Ethiopian authorities which was subsequently used to spy on journalists and activists, per another report from Citizen Lab.In an apparent leaked note posted to Twitter, Hacking Team COOGiancarlo Russo acknowledged the potential that the client had abused its software, but appeared to bury any concerns around ethics by explaining that a flag had been raised by two of the newest guys who may be frightened by this kind of press.Want to guess whether we suspended the client? pic.twitter.com/8H42Io1Z3M Hacked Team (@hackingteam) July 6, 2015A further list, posted to Pastebin, claims to show the organizations client list, which includes government agencies from Australia, Egypt, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, Spain,Thailand, Turkey and UAE. The Verge reported in 2013that Hacking Team made a major push to lureU.S.-based clients,and according to this list, the FBI and Drug Enforcement Agency hadengaged Hacking Teams services at one point.Many of the security community may enjoy the irony that Hacking Team, which is listed on Reporters Without Borders Enemies Of The Internet list, is being exposed so publicly, but theres a genuine concern that if the organizations source codes are indeed part of the leaked documentation  which experts are still looking over  then that could grant widespread access to some very powerful tools.Hacking Team founder Christian Pozzi claimed on Twitter that the hackers falsified information about the companys services and clients, adding that the company is working with police on the issue.We are currently working closely with the police at the moment. I can't comment about the recent breach. Christian Pozzi (@christian_pozzi) July 6, 2015A further tweet appeared to suggest that the company is shutting down, but it isnt clearly whether that is genuine or just a reaction to the outpouring of company information into the public domain.We are closing down. Bye Saudi Arabia. You paid us well. Allahuhakbah. Christian Pozzi (@christian_pozzi) July 6, 2015Update: Pozzi has deleted his Twitter account.