Plenty of people would give everything to be an early employee at seven-year-old Uber. But Uber employees whove been with the ride-share company for at least a few years have discovered a considerable downside to their ride with the transportation juggernaut. They cant afford to quit. Startup employees have to exercise their options within 90 days of leaving a company or else lose them and at Uber, that cost is simply too high.A quick scan of LinkedIn for former employees underscores the point. Of Ubers roughly 6,700 employees, only a tiny fraction have left, and in most cases, those hires werent around long enough to be worrying about vested options.Employees of privately held companies have long wrestled with this issue. (We wrote about it here last summer.)With valuations of many privately held tech companies having soared so dramatically in recent years, the amount of capital needed to buy employee options has escalated at an unprecedented pace for employees at a variety of places.Uber appears to bethe most extreme example, however. In a completely hypothetical example, lets say anearly, top Uber engineer was given .5 percent of the company. Now lets say this person was awarded options in 2011, when Uber raised $11 million in Series A funding at a reported $60 million valuation. His ownership stake at the time would have been $300,000. Yet today, that same stake (undiluted) would now be worth $300million at Ubers reported current post-money valuation of $60 billion. Thats a paper gain of $299,700,000.Its very hard to cry about that, its true. But there is bad news: at a 40 percent tax rate for short-term gains, if the engineer opted to leave Uber, hed confront a tax bill of $119,880,000, not including that earlier $300,000 needed to exercise the options. And leaving Uber would start the clock. Hed have just 90 days to come up with the $300,000, and hed have to come up with the rest of the money for the much larger tax bill by the next April 15.Maybe Uber will be publicly traded by then. Maybe it wont.Some highly valued companies have tried to ease this issue for employees by allowing them to sell some of their shares to preapproved secondary sellers at certain points. Not so Uber, which amended its bylaws in 2013 to restrict unapproved secondary sales. Not only does itnot allow employees to sell their shares to secondary buyers, it also wont allow them to use services like those offered by 137 Ventures, which makes loans to founders and early employees using their stock as collateral. (Snapchat, Dropbox, and Airbnb have similar policies.)Our sense is that the company doesnt mess around, either. Four secondary players have told us ofemployees whovetried to find ways around Ubers regulations, only to be stymied. Weve been approached by big groups of early employees, and I know a lot has been written about loans or hypothetical products to get around its policies, says one source. But Ubers position is that if it learns [of a sale or loan] that goes around its share-transfer restrictions, there will be consequences.It may seem uncharitableon some level, but its very much by design, according to insiders, who say Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has two primary motivations for keeping his companys shares on lockdown.The first dates back to Facebook, whose IPO was widely considered a bungled affair. In small part, errors in Nasdaqs computer programming created problems. (Nasdaq later paid out tens of millions of dollars to both the SEC and to brokers who lost money because of those glitches.)The bigger issue was the vibrant secondary market that sprang up around Facebook shares when the company was still private. By the time Facebook went public in May 2012, many retail investors had already shelled out several hundred thousand dollars for its privately held shares.There was no pop, says one longtime Uber employee who asked not to be named. Uber doesnt want everyone in the deal because, unlike Facebook, it wants a spike when it finally has its public market debut.Ubers second motivation is to retain the companys talent. Whereas some companies like Pinterest have opted to make give employees greater flexibility when it comes to managing their vested options, Uber has choseninstead to make it hard, if not impossible, for its employees to move on to other companies.If you had the ability to sell a portion of your shares to pay the tax on them, that would be one thing, says one longtime Uber employee. But you cant. So unless youve already made a lot of money or want to walk away from very valuable equity, you stay.Uber management is all former Google and Facebook execs, notes this person. Theyve seen the pitfalls of letting people exercise early, and they made sure, early on, that it wasnt going to happen. Unfortunately, many[employees] who walked in here and received options didnt really understand all these sophisticated systems.Money, money, money, money. . .money!Despite employees immobility, morale inside Uber remains high, according to our sources, a sentiment that the jobs site Glassdoor seemsto confirm. Roughly 1,600 people have reviewed Uber on the platform; the 490 whove rated CEO Travis Kalanick collectively award him a 91 percent approval rating.As Uber investor Bill Maris of GV recently noted to us, too, a lot of [Ubers] employees are new. I dont think theyre pounding the table saying, We need to go public because we need our money.Indeed, onesource says the number of employeeswhove been with the company for more than four years and whose options are fully vested is in the low double digits.Nevertheless, being handcuffed to the company can mean missedopportunities,both for employees towork for othercompanies (or themselves), and in their personal lives.As one sympathetic early investor who asked not to be named tells us, Giving employees liquidity doesnt mean they leave. Sometimes they want to buy homes or cars or whatever, and providing ways they can improve their lives seems like a good move.Questions about Ubers future, and how mucheveryone owns,is likely an ongoing distraction for employees, too.Though Ubers success to date has been unrivaled, a variety ofon-demand appshave been closingdown owing to their thin- to non-existent margins. Uber isnt immune to financial worries, either. Just this week, itagreed to shell out atas much as $100million to drivers in California and Massachusetts to settle a class-action lawsuit. Its unlikely the case settled the prospect of other lawsuits stemming from disagreements over how Uber should classify its drivers.Meanwhile,the company has already raised at least $9 billion in funding from a wide variety of capital sources. That gives it room to grow and experiment. At the same time,later-stage roundstypically comewith preferred terms that aim to protect those new investorsoften at a cost to earlier backers and employee shareholders.In fact, some speculatedlast week that atiradeauthored by VCBill Gurley of Benchmark against dirty terms was aimed at Uber management. (Benchmark led Ubers Series A round.)Gurley didnt respond to related questions last week.Asked for this piece about employees inability to sell or transfer their shares, Uber also declined to comment.Given the many other initiativesthat Uberis juggling on any given day,thats not surprising.In the meantime, Ubercontinues to chugalong with the help of many employees who feel really good about the company. So saysoneUber employee who, its worth noting, has worked for Uber for less than a year.At Uber, as with all startups, the big question is how long that goodwill will last.