Theres been some significant consolidation among the rush of on-demand cleaning and home services startups. Now one of the companiesvying to end up on the top of the heap is expanding into a new category. Handy  the New York-based home services startup is active in 28 cities and has raised $64 million  is launchingHandy Delivery, a delivery and assembly service, starting with furniture.Debuting initiallyin NYC, the first items on offerwill be a selection of bedroom, living room and other furniturefrom Ikea, which you actually buy through Handys own site. If there is an Ikea item that you want that is not listed on Handys site, Handy says you can email a list of items to them and they will buy and price out the delivery items for you directly.The itemscome as soon as next day and with a two-hour window for delivery time.Handy Delivery comes amidsome other interesting developments for the company.Bloomberg reported last week that Handyis raising $50 million at a $500 million valuation  a round that weve heard may actually be higher when its closed. And weve also heard from reliable sources that a potential deal to acquire Homejoy, whichhas been ongoing sinceMay, is now dead.While the new service will effectively sell the Ikea furniture that Handy isoffering to deliverand assemble, the idea is not to become an e-commerce portal, says Handys CEO and co-founderOisin Hanrahan.Rather, its to take some of the hassleout of buying things like flat-packfurniture that needs to be put together yourself. While items bought online will often have an option for delivery and assembly, Handy is hoping toundercut when thoseservicesare offered as ad-onsby stores and provide an optionin those cases where there is no assembly or deliveryoffered at all.The aim of the new service is to make customers happy. This about taking something people are doing  buying furniture that needs to get to their homes and be assembled  and making it into a great experience, Hanrahansaid in an interview.To that end, the price for a piece of furniture as it is being sold on Ikeais the same on Handy. The mark-up comes in taxes and delivery and assembly.Handy is not directly working with Ikea (or any future retailer) as a partner, Hanrahan noted, and longer term the idea will be to add more stores and more categories to the mix.Imagine Instacart and what it offers in its [aggregated] booking experience, Hanrahan said. This is what we want to do here.The service, if successful, could boost Handy in two ways. It will help the companyincrease its contact points with existing customers, who might be more likely to turn to Handy as a one-stop shop for home services. That, in turn, can help the companys margins on those customers.And it will widen the funnel for more people to come into the Handy platform to begin with. While you may not be the kind of person who pays for housekeeping, you may have no interest in putting together Ikea furniture. But if you pay for one service and like the experience, you may be more likely to try out the other one.There have beena lot of startups flocking around the on-demand model, from transportation to delivery and cleaning and all tasks in between. But there has been skepticismover the viability of many of them.Somehave raised questions about margins as many services market themselvesaggressively but fail to scale and develop enough high-margin products to offset the cuts it takes on cheaper, competitive ones. Thats not helped by the presence of companies like Amazon that are also targeting home services.The scaling issue and how it impacts on margins appears to be at the heart of some of the problems Homejoy has faced. Our sources say the Handy deal to buy them died because of issues similar to those that Homejoy faced in a failedacquisitionby Germanys Helpling.Handy itself, however, appears to havebeen on a roll in terms of its growth.In addition to passing $1 million/week in job bookings in March, the company is now clocking around 100,000 bookings each month, with 80 percent of them coming from repeat users. (No specific comment on margins except to say that the company is happy with them.)Another issue hitting several on-demand startups has beenemployment, since many of the workers that make the wheels of these startups turn are contractors.Handyitself has been the subject of lawsuits that TechCrunch understands are either in arbitration or moving in that direction, and the company in the meantime is trying to work with its wider network on a way forward. Its also faced some criticismfor its customer service.At Handy we are dedicated to helping connect our customers with trusted, effective professionals for common household services. At the same time, we are focused every day on attracting the best network of high-quality independent professionals, which means giving them the opportunity to make good money and provide for themselves and their families, Hanrahan said.Our independent professionals make on average over $17 an hour per job using the Handy platform, which offers them great flexibility in how and when they work.