Apples support for ad blockers on the new version of its mobile operating system, iOS 9, launching Wednesday, is poised to change how consumers interact with the web on mobile devices.Following the release, the Apple App Store will distribute applications that allow iPhone and iPad owners to install apps offering extensions for Apples Safari web browser that will prevent the browser from loading not justonline ads and pop-ups, but also other content that slows down browsing and consumes resources. This includestracking scripts, cookies, images, auto-play videos and more.Trying to beat the newcomersto launch, ad-blocking giant AdBlock Plusrecently released an ad-blocking web browser of its own. But, to be clear, this is a browser, not one of the new blockers. However, AdBlockwill introduce an ad-blocking extension following iOS 9s debut.Meanwhile, ahead of iOS 9s release, a number of companies and indie developers have been building content blockers of their own and testing them outwith iOS 9s sizable group ofbeta testers.While many consumers will likely gravitate toward AdBlock Plus because of their familiarity with the brands name and reputation, there will be a good handful of new apps on the horizon as well, which are also worth a look.Here are a few weve tried:Like many of the contentblockers in development, 1Blocker isnt only focused on blocking ads. Instead, this app ships with 7,000 pre-installed blockers, including those affecting ads, tracking scripts and other items that run in the background on web pages, fromad networks and analytics providers.The company claims that using 1Blocker decreased page loading times and total data downloaded by 50 percent, which means the app can help save battery life as well as cut down on your mobile data traffic (and therefore, your cell phone monthly bill).To use the app, you first enable 1Blocker in Settings > Safari > Content Blockers on your device. This is the same area where all content blocking extensions have to be enabled.Afterwards, you can return to the app to customize yourconfigurations even further. While theres a big toggle switch to turn on or off 1Blocker using its default settings, whats nice about this appis theability to personalize the content it blocks  something not all the content blockers will do out of the gate.In 1Blocker, you can toggle on and off switches for things like blocking Facebook widgets, Twitter widgets, Share Widgets, Custom web fonts, Disqus comments, ads, trackers, cookies and more. You can even block adult sites, or specify specific URLs or cookies using rules you create.For those who understand things on a more technical level, you can createvery narrowly targeted rules. For example, you can choose to block either first-party or third-party cookies on all domains, specific domains or only outside particular domains. And you can create URL filters using quantifying expressions (e.g. with *, ?, and +).The app doesnt just stop there, either. It also integrates with a web editor at my.1blocker.com which allows you to work on your own customizations via your desktop or laptop computer thatyou can then send to your phone. This allows for even deeper customizations and rule editing, as youre able to take advantage ofa more advanced editor to create rules and workflows that let you block content or cookies while turning off or on various resource types like documents, images, StyleSheets, fonts, SVG files, pop-ups and more.Youll also be able to open rule packages created and saved by yourself or others from a file on your computer and then import them to your iOS device by selecting 1Blocker from the Open In menu.This allows you to personalize whats being blocked very specifically, explains indie developer Salavat Khanov who built the 1Blockerapp. Using 1Blocker you could create a custom blocker to block all GIFs on Tumblr, he offersas an example. It lets you block any resources on the web, hide particular elements on pages  likecomments on Hacker News  or block 1st or 3rd party cookies on all or specific list of domains.In tests, across of a number of news sites including The WSJ, Wired, Mashable, The Verge, NYT, Ars Technica, Slashdot, Vice (Motherboard), ZDNet and several others, 1Blocker saved 49.85 percent data from being loaded. At the top of the list, Business Insider (UK) saw 84.53 percent of data saved, PCGamer saw 82.78 percent saved, and iMore saw 82.28 percent data saved, to give you an idea.Best For: More technical userswho want a customized content blocking experience and want to create their own rules.Pricing: Free version will allow one group of blockers (e.g. Block Ads or Block Trackers). To unlock other groups of blockers, there will be an in-app purchase of $2.99.Another new content blocking extension, Blockr, has also been in testing ahead of the iOS 9 launch. Similar to 1Blocker, you are able to customize whats being blocked to some extent, though this app has far less detail to it.Instead of beingpresented with a longer list of content types to turn on or off, or creating your own advanced rules, Blockr takes a more simplified approach to customizations. On the apps main screen, you can choose only to turn on or off a handful of settings, including ads, media, tracking mechanisms and cookie policy warnings.For more novice users, this type of interface offers some level of control over your browsing experience without becoming too technical. Each option briefly explains why you may want to enable this setting. For example, the Media Blocker setting says that by blocking media you can save on data or improve speed on slow networks, while the privacy blocker notes that this helps you avoid several tracking mechanisms from websites.However, while youre able to turnoff or onthese various settings by flipping a switch, you cant drill down to specify things like which types of media to block (e.g. images vs. auto-play videos), or which ad networks to block (1Blocker offers toggles for each one supported), nor can you configure blocking for specific things like social share widgets.The customization in Blockr is limited to allowing you to whitelist certain websites from having their content blocked. Its not a universal whitelist, though  you have to whitelist the site on each setting.Blockr was builtby German developers Tim Poller and Arno Appenzeller, who tell us their appwill offer more types of blockers in the future, as they plan to support the applong-term.Best For: Those who want some level of customization in terms of toggling ads, content, or tracking script blocking on or off, but dont need to create highly customized rules.Pricing: The app will be a paid download for $0.99 at launch. Following the promotion, the price will increase to $1.99.Crystal is an upcoming content blocker thats seen a bit of pre-launch press thanks to creator Dean Murphys blog which has been sharing the results of various tests of its effectiveness during beta trials.For example, after testing Crystal against 10 popular websites, Murphy found that pages loaded 3.9x faster on average, and used 53 percent less data.However, unlike the above two blockers, Crystal doesnt offer any customizations.According to Murphy, that choice is by design, he says. [Crystal is] designed tobe simple and unobtrusive, Murphy explains. You just turn it on and all ads and tracking is blocked by default. The app is kind of just a shell, as its secondary features  auto-update and report site features  work in the background or via the Safari Action Extension menu.Report site, to clarify, is a feature that will tap Crystals own user base to help the app get better at blocking. If you come across a website thats still showing ads (or has stopped working because of the blocking, perhaps), you can submit the URL directly to the apps developer. You wont have to turn Crystal off to get around a broken site, of course  in iOS 9, you can hold down the refresh button in Safari and choose reload without content blockers whenever you run into trouble with any of these extensions.While Crystals focus will be on offering users a sort of set-it-and-forget-it experience, Murphy says that he will introduce a whitelist feature to allow users to specify domains they dont want blocked. He notes hes also exploring a couple of other features, too, but declined to share what those are for the time being.Best For: Novice users who just want to turn on content blocking without having to worry with the details.Pricing: TBD, but Crystal will be a premium app.