At $15 per month, is HBO NOW too expensive when competing against lower-cost services like Netflix and Amazon Prime? Thats what the network wants to know, andits currently asking customers who have recently completed their trial of the new, over-the-top streaming service if they would be interested in subscribing at lower price points. The company even specifically suggests a few new pricing tiers to consider, including a three-month subscription for $29.99, six months for $59.99, or a year for $99.99.Such options would cut the service down to $9.99 for the 3and 6month plans, and $8.33 for the 12-month plan.This question was a part of a customer satisfaction survey which recently arrived in the email inboxes of those who chose not to sign-up for HBO NOW after their free trial period ended. When the respondent notedthat the pricewas an issue, the following screen of questions appeared (via CutCableToday, also spotted by Geek.com):The screen suggests that these price points would be presented as one-time offers to encourage new sign-ups, rather than replace the standard pricing for the service. The strategy of providing access to HBO content for a reduced fee that later balloons into a larger one is something the network is already familiar with, as it regularly runs promotions with cable and satellite TV providers whoprovides the channelfor a discount at various times of the year.As of today, HBO NOW is one of the pricier standalonestreaming video services on the market. For comparison, Netflix is $8.99/month, Amazon Prime, which also includes other member benefits including free, 2-day shipping, is $99 per year, and Hulus paid tier is $7.99 per month. Meanwhile, streaming cable TV and ESPN-over-the-top provider Sling TV starts at $20 per month  only $5 more than HBO, but itincludesnearly two dozen channels.Arguably, HBOs content is more valuable which is why its priced at a premium, but it still may be too high to attract the legion of cord cutters who are ditching cable TV for financial reasons. This crowd may have already committed to popularservices like Netflix and Amazon Prime as well, and could behesitant to add one more to their cord-cutting mix.After all, thoughHBOs shows like Games of Thrones are hugely popular, theyre also among the most pirated. In fact, despite the launch of HBO NOW, the fifth season premiere of Game of Thrones set a new piracy record by being downloaded 13 million times, with moreof the downloads coming from the U.S. than any other country.That indicates that whiledemand for HBO showsis high, prices for HBO NOW havent found thatsweet spot that makes paying for the content the easier choice versusillegally torrenting the episodes.Its an age-old problem  and one that the music industry also once faced, as it tried to figure out how to encourage people to move away from Napster and other p2p file-sharing services, and actually pay for songs and albums instead. (Apples iTunes and its hardware devices werea huge help with this earlier dilemma, of course, which is one reasonwhy HBO likely teamed up with Apple to make its first supported hardware device the Apple TV.)Despite the appearance of the new, suggested pricing, dont get your hopes up for a cheaper version of HBO NOW any time soon. The company is sendingout a number of customer satisfaction surveys in the services early days in order to collect customer feedback and data. What it eventually chooses to do with that data, of course, remains to be seen.Adds an HBO rep, when asked about the price points being discussed, HBO Research conducts surveys all the time on a wide range of topics. The questions should never be interpreted as suggesting a strategic direction.