HBOs quest to more directly compete with streaming service rivals like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu is kicking off this week, with the companyslaunch of a new Kids section in its mobile application and the rollout of new childrens programming on its TV network. At launch, the Kidssection will feature popular kids showslike Sesame Street, The Electric Company, and Pinky Dinky Doo  titlesHBO scored access to as part of a wide-ranging deal with Sesame Workshop, announced last year.The partnership effectively saved Sesame Street, which had traditionally relied on DVD sales to bring in revenues. Sales, which, of course, had been declining. Going forward, Sesame Workshop will be able to increase production of its kids programming, with 35 new episodes ofSesame Streetreleased per year, up from the 18 it produced previously. After the shows run for nine months only on HBO, theyll then be made freely available to PBS, the programshome for the past 45 years.The deal is one of the more prominent examples of the changes underway in todays media industry, where fewer consumers are watching live television or buying DVDs, instead relying on streaming services for much of their TV consumption.And for HBO, its a notable step toward becoming a broader, more mainstream consumer brand.Today, HBO is still known best as the premium cable network that offers adult-friendly fare, including popular original programs like Game of Thrones, along with movies, documentaries, comedy specials, and sports programming. Its critically acclaimed content is addictive and perfect for binge watching, but its definitely not for kids.Rather, its what parents reward themselves with after their kids are tucked away in bed for the night.Though HBO typically offers a selection of family programming  for example, today, its service includes animatedmovies like Alvin and the Chipmunks and Bee Movie  that content isnt usually heavily featured or promoted within its mobile application, in favor of showcasing HBO originals and movies instead. And its not the kind of content thats associated with the HBO brand name.Thats now changing.If HBO hopes to compete in the rapidly growing streaming video market, and rake in top dollar for its over-the-top application, HBO NOW, which is a pricey $15 per month, it has to attract a wideraudience. That means expanding to include more family and childrens programming. After all, thats a lesson othercompetitors learned early on  Netflix launched its own Kids section back in 2011, and added support for user profiles a couple of years later.Hulu, meanwhile, debuted its own Kids area back in 2012.The problem HBO faces is one where theres now amultitude of streaming services to choose from, with virtually every network trying its hand at getting a piece of consumers spend on streaming video  whether thats online services like Netflix, Hulu, or YouTube, or those from theold guard  like NBCU which just launched its Seeso comedy streaming service, or CBS which runs CBS All Access and is now rumored to be doing something similarwith theCW Network, which it owns with Warner Bros.That means HBOs growing audience of over-the-top subscribers may drop itsservice when their favorite show, like Game of Thrones, wraps, instead of seeing HBO as something that has value year-round. However, withan ongoing selection of top kids programming, parents may choose to keep the service in their cord-cutting mix indefinitely.The HBO GO application is the first to be updated with access to the new Kids section, though the HBO NOW app shouldsoon mirror these changes. In addition to featuring the newly added shows including Sesame Street and others, parents can also employ a Kids Lock which will keep their child restricted to the content in the Kids section, and will be able to utilize Parental Controls to further limit access.HBO itself is heavily promoting its expandedcontent on HBOKids.com, which toutsthe newly added Sesame Street, and its larger kids catalog that includes ad-free access to hundreds of childrens programs.The new content will be released on Saturday, Jan. 16, starting at 9 AM, in the HBO app and on HBOs TV network. Sesame Street will also air daily at 8 AM on HBO Family, as part of the morning Kids block beginning on Sunday, Jan. 17.