HBOs over-the-top streaming service aimed at cord cutters, HBO NOW, is today becoming available on Android devices and Amazon Fire tablet devices, the companies are announcing this morning, and will soon arrive on Fire TV, Fire TV Stick and Android TV streaming media devices in the coming weeks. The move signals the end of the Apple exclusivity window for the service. According to HBO, the appwill reach the Amazon Appstore and Google Play today.HBO NOW was first announcedthis March at Apples WWDC event, and offers the networks original programming, documentaries, movies, sports shows, and specials to those who dont have a pay TV subscription through acable or satellite provider. Instead, viewers can download an app to their mobiledevices or watch online via the web, paying $14.99 per month for direct access to HBO. However, when the service debuted this spring, it was initially availablein app format only forApple TV and iOS devices like iPhone and iPad, not Android phones or tablets.But that exclusivity wasa limited time deal. This May, for example, Google announced at its own developer conference that the app would soon arrive on Google Play with Chromecast support included.The HBO NOW app is launching today for Amazons latest tablet devices, says Amazon, including the more affordable Fire HD 6 ($99) and Fire HD 7 ($139) tablets, as well asthe high-end Fire HDX 8.9 ($379). The HDX is pricier due to its 339 ppi HDX display, quad-core 2.5 GHz processor, support for Dolby Atmos, and other features designed to make it Amazons preferred tablet for media consumption. These tablets devices run Fire OS, which is Amazons customized version of Android.HBO also says that the app will hit Google Play at some point today. The Android version of the application will soon support Chromecast streaming, and will also soon run on Android TV, the company notes.In addition, Amazon saysthat HBO NOW will soon be supported on its own streaming media devices, Fire TV and the Fire TV Stick  the latter its answer to Googles Chromecast.Neither Amazon or HBOoffered an exact timeframe for the streaming media playerlaunch dates, only saying that it would be available in the weeks ahead.On both app stores, HBO will allow new customers to try the service for free for the first 30 days. Afterward, they can either cancel or continue their subscription at $14.99/month. This also gives them the ability to watch the streams via HBOs website at HBONOW.com.As a side note, Amazon took the opportunity to provide an update on the Fire TV ecosystem this morning, noting that, duringthe past five months, its added over 700 new channels, apps, and games for Fire TV, and its Amazon Appstore now has over 300,000 apps that work on its Fire tablets.Though Apple previously was the exclusive hardware partner for HBO NOW, that hasnt been the only way for those without a pay TV subscription to access the networks programming. The company also cut deals with Cablevision who resold HBO NOW to its internet customers, and with Dishs Sling TV, an online streaming TV service. More recently, Comcast said that HBO would be included in Stream, its own internet-powered streaming service.According to some analysts cited by Variety, HBO NOWs streaming service may have reached around a million subscribers by June. Network execs, meanwhile, have previously said the addressable market for HBO NOW in the U.S. is the10 million homes that only have broadband subscriptions.