These days you can take yourself to the doctor or teleport the doctor to you from a mobile device. Now Heal, a startup out of Los Angeles, wants to take us back to an era of old-fashioned house callsby uberingadoctor to your door.Weve written about marijuanadelivery services that will uber over a doctor to you for insomnia and other needs for weed, but Heal sends the traditional kind of medical doctor, complete with black bag, stethoscope and other portable, hi-tech gadgets.Heal founder Dr. Renee Dua, a board certified kidney specialist, came up with the idea after spending a long night in the ER for her infant sons cold. It was awful. When your kid is sick you need a simple way to get a doctor fast, she said.Unfortunately for Dr. Dua, there werent any pediatricians available at the hospital that night and she had to sit around in the uncomfortable waiting room chairs with her sick son.Thats when the idea struck her that something else was possible. Dr. Dua knew from experience that doctors already had the tools available to make house calls for things like the cold or flu. Youd be surprised what we have these days, she said, rattling off items like the AlivCor ECG, a heart rate monitor that hooks up to your smartphone for readings, and the CellScope, a tool that that helps doctorsdiagnoseear infections from a remote location.This is actually not an original idea. Doctors Making Housecalls, a service literally doing what the name implies, operates in certain regions of North Carolina. Pager is a startup that will send a doctor to your door inthe Manhattan area of New York City. Then theres Medicast, another Los Angeles startupthat works with hospitals and established physician practices to provide scheduled house callstopatients.Heal is an on-demand service that promises to deliver a doctor to you in under an hour. Itlaunchedin the LosAngeles area late last year and is now open for business in San Francisco starting today.Itworks by downloading the iOS Heal app(Android coming soon)and then ordering a doctor between the hours of 8 a.m and 8 p.m., seven days a week. A doctor shouldcome to your door within 60 minutes.The service is a bit pricier than a typical co-pay at the doctors office. Those range from $15-25 for a routine visit, but can go up to $100 for an emergency room stay, according to Debt.com.Healcosts $99 a visit for eitherkids oradults who want the doctor to come to them.Dr. Dua points out that the cost of physically taking yourself to the doctor should also take into account the time, gas money and parking you may have to pay to do so.I tested the service out myself and found it to be pretty much as straight-forward asordering a ride from Uber or Lyft. Dr Rushi Parikh, a Stanford-trained independent medical physicianshowed up on the app in much the same way as a driver or delivery person would on other on-demand apps.An operations person named Mary called to verify my information while I waited and to make sure this wasnt a medical emergency.Dr. Parikh showed up at the cafe I was at in just under an hour. I wasnt really sick, but I do have some minor allergies this time of year.Hetold me to takean over-the-counter antihistamine like Claritin. Heal offers a service that will go and pick up your medication, vitamins and whatever else you need at the pharmacy for you should you need that, too.Dr. Parikh mentioned that eventually Heal will be able to offer other things like vaccinations and ultrasound on-demand.It wasnt a bad experience and it is nice that the doctor would come to where I wanted, but I do wish it wouldnt take so long. The app didnt tell me how long it would take Dr. Parikh to arrive, just that he should be able to get to me within an hour.Dr. Dua said shes working on a way to make the visits more hyper-localized so that doctors are closer to patients in the same way Uber drivers pick up rides within a certain area close to them. Heal said that there is a doctor close to every neighborhood in L.A.now. But the service is still pretty new to S.F. A quicker appearancewill most likely require more users requesting doctors in the Bay Area.Heal has raised $3.7 million inseed moneyso farfrom the likes of Lionel Richie, Qualcomm exec Paul Jacobs and Dodgers co-ownerJamie McCourt. Dr. Dua plans to use the funds to help Heal scale beyond just L.A. and the Bay Area in the near future.