Just four months after raising a $17 million Series A, Helpling has mopped up further investment. The Rocket Internet on-demand home cleaning startup has closed a $45 million Series B round led by Lakestar, Kite Ventures, Lukasz Gadowski and Rocket Internet; money it plans to use to continue scaling up operations.In fact, achieving scale, in typical Rocket Internet fashion, appears to be the name of the game here as Helpling moves at lightning speed into additional markets where, for the most part, other home cleaning startups have yet to enter, and the competition remains the black market. This has already seen the service expand to 200 cities across Europe and elsewhere after first debuting in Berlin as recently as March 2014.However, although that number clearly dwarfs direct competitors, such as U.S. startups HomeJoy, and Handy, and Accel-backed Hassle, it comes with an interesting counter-point: Helpling cites 50,000-plus customers to date, meaning, technically-speaking, an average of only 250 customers per city.The vast majority of jobs are in our top 20 cities globally, he says. But in all these cities you can book a Helpling. The question is, how much do we market it, or how much do we let it be a product that is being recommended based on the experience from customers. We focus on less than the 200 cities, but Helpling is available in 200 cities.Franke says that Helplings marketplace model, which connects people wanting to have their home cleaned to vetted cleaners, is only profitable at scale. Specifically, repeat bookings is where the real money is made. He also says he thinks of the cleaners who use the service as Helplings customers, in addition to actual end-users.This prompted me to ask about how Helpling recruits (and vets) the cleaners who service each city. Along with customer acquisition and support, it feels like the least scalable part of the on-demand home cleaning model. A single bad clean could disproportionately damage Helplings brand after all.Based on the data those tests produced, Helpling  perhaps, rather conveniently  has chosen the latter, which is infinitely more scalable as it can be conducted from the companys central base in Berlin.The results were very, very clear that the additional face-to-face cleaning [test] does not make the difference in terms of the customer satisfaction in the end. This is something we tested very intensively, he says.Equally important to maintaining a good customer experience is the rating system that Helpling employs, whereby customers can rate their house clean, similar to how passengers rate their Uber driver.This, says Franke, means that the quality control on Helpling is largely self-optimised, as the startups algorithm rewards the best cleaners, which they themselves are made aware of.We would never do anything that harms Helpling as a brand, he says. We are in this for decades; its just the beginning of home services coming online. This only works if we can provide a good service. Otherwise you create hype and everyone tries it, and tries it exactly once, and you are in a really bad position.In other words, as Helpling continues to scale at Rocket Internet-famed speed, dont fuck up? Exactly, and fucking up is so easy, especially if you are growing fast and you dont realise it, saysFranke.