Take a quick look, a sneak peek, into our not-so-distant future, courtesy of the great science-fiction writer Peter Watts(1), who writes in Aeon magazine: You already know that we can run machines with our brainwaves. Thats been old news for almost a decade But weve moved beyond merely thinking orders at machinery. Now were using that machinery to wire living brains together.How close are we to human telepathy? Well  define telepathy. I mean, slap on a cheap Neurosky or Emotiv headset, have a friend do the same, carve up your Google Cardboard so its fits over them, code up a rudimentary two-way protocol to communicate between each persons headset and the other persons smartphone, and guess what, that is a kind of direct mind-to-mind communication. Crude, confusing, and low-bandwidth, to be sure; but also something any hackerspace denizen worthy of the name could throw together out of homegrown software and off-the-shelf hardware.But thats not real telepathy. For that wed have to have mind-to-mind communication without any of our clumsy senses getting in the way. And thats a long way away, obviously, right? Wed need something like  well Neurosilicon interfaces, for example. Weve had those for more than a decade now. In labs around the world, neuron cultures put robot bodies through their paces; puddles of brain tissue drive flight simulators [] DARPA has thrown its weight behind the development of a cortical modem, a direct neural interface wired right into your gray matter [] Sony has registered blue-sky patents for technology that plants sensory input directly into the brain using radio waves and compressed ultrasoundto quote Watts in Aeon, again. How far away, exactly, are we from real people with implanted DNIs? (I hereby christen such people dannies for the sake of narrative convenience.) And who will the first such people be?Im not qualified to speculate about the former, though I note the accelerating speed of neuroscience development with raised eyebrows, but I can make a bet about the latter. Very few people are eager to sign up for experimental brain surgery. Thats only an option you plump for if youre completely out of alternatives. So the first dannies  arguably, humanitys first real superhumans  will probably be survivors of motorcycle accidents and serious congenital medical conditions. Theres a nice irony for you.So what happens when we have actual telepathy? I mean, lets not get crazy, its not like people are going to form hive minds, right? Those dont actually exist  oh, wait.You already are a hive mind. You always have been. [] Hemispheric isolation can also be induced chemically, by anaesthetising half the brain  and the undrugged hemisphere, unshackled from its counterpart, sometimes manifests a whole new suite of personality traits right on the spot [] Consciousness remains mysterious. But [] one of the things we do know is that consciousness spreads to fill the space available.(Watts again. In case it isnt already clear, I strongly urge you to click through and read the whole piece. He also writes about ongoing research into implantable memories; rats who learn to use a new physical sense entirely new to their species; the nature of consciousness; etcetera.)So what the heck, let us speculate: what will the emergent effects of the existence of dannies be? How much space will be available to the consciousness(es)? And by space we really mean bandwidth. What is the bandwidth of consciousness? And how do you defineand securetelepathic protocols?In humans, consciousness falters and fades away if the round-trip signal lag between neurons exceeds 400 milliseconds. For reference, light can travel all the way around the planet in 133 milliseconds, and Google considers a server slow if its response time exceeds 200 milliseconds. Even on todays Internet, 400 ms is not a particularly high bar. Just saying.People tend to be excited and/or terrified about artificial intelligence. It seems to me that we should be a lot more interested in and/or concerned by augmented intelligence; that the first superhuman intelligence is more likely to be built atop existing human mind(s) than something coded up from scratch. Im obviously speculating wildly in this column. Its a subject for which wild speculation is really the only appropriate approach. But you can easily make a case that when they arrive, direct neural interfacesand the dannieswill be the most significant development yet in the history of homo sapiens.Theyre decades away yet, sure. (Probably.) But that still seems awfully close to me.(1) Disclaimer/disclosure: Peters a personal friend, though his greatness can be objectively and independently verified.