Weve still got a few spots left for startups who want to display in Startup Alley alongside dozens of other startups at Disrupt London 2015, so if you havent yet purchased your tickets to the Alley, now is the time to act.But why should you put your startup on display in Startup Alley? Simply put, the Alley is the best way to connect with hundreds of investors, entrepreneurs and tech enthusiasts that can help take your startup to the next level. In the Alley, companies like yours can makes a few months worth of connections in just a few days.Several TechCrunch writers and editors attend Disrupt alongside dozens of other members of the press, which puts your company in a prime spot to get the coverage it needs. So, in addition to walking away from the Alley with tons of new industry contacts, you might just get the press coverage you need to get your company in front of the public eye.Displaying in the Alley also gives you the opportunity to enter the Startup Battlefield competition. On Monday of Disrupt, companies in Startup Alley have an opportunity to be selected as the Wild Card and pitch on-stage as part of the Startup Battlefield. Audience votes will establish the top 10 companies in Startup Alley. Once the audience voting concludes, the TechCrunch Editorial team will select the Wild Card company from these 10 companies.The Wild Card company selected from Tuesdays Alley will have an opportunity to demo on stage.So, what does all this awesome stuff cost you? For 400 + VAT on Monday or 325 + VAT on Tuesday, you and another person get one day to display in the Alley, as well as a ticket to the show so you can enjoy the speakers and events when youre not feverishly pitching your idea to attendees. If you need to bring more than 2 people, you can purchase up to 3 additional tickets for 400 each on Monday, or 325 each on Tuesday.To display in the Alley, your company must be less than two years old and have secured less than 2 million in funding, so be sure you meet the eligibility criteria before purchasing your tickets. You can buy your tickets and get in on the Startup Alley action over on our ticketing page.Disrupt London 2015 runs from December 7-8 at Londons Copper Box Arena, and we hope to see you there. More information about the conference will be released in coming weeks as the event draws nearer. Stay tuned to our Disrupt London hub for more information as it becomes available.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.