A New York City startup called Heroplans to replace those plasticpill organizerswith a high-tech home appliance.As demonstrated for me by the Hero team, its easy to load your medicines, vitaminsand other health supplements into the machine, then indicate the dosage youll need and when youre supposed to take it. Once youre all set up, the Hero device will automatically alert you when its time to take your medication and dispense the pills accordingly.Co-foundersKut Akdogan andKal Vepuri said they both have experience in healthcare  Akdogan worked with large medical device companies while at Bain & Co. and also founded nutrition startup Almond.The whole pharmaceutical experience is still in the Stone Age, he said.How hard is it to remember the pills you need to take? Well, medicine non-adherence supposedly accounts for 125,000 annual deaths and between $100 billion and $289 billion in healthcare costs in the United States alone.And yes, there are other devices for dispensing pills, butAkdogan argued that theyre usually not built with the consumer in mind. The Hero appliance, on the other hand, is supposed to be friendly and easy-to-use.In fact, Akdogan said it should remind users of a coffee maker,and Id say thats a fair description.Why a coffee maker? Well, when Akdoganwakes up in the morning , I want to go get that cup of coffee, I look forward to that. I wake up and get topress that button and it whirrs  I feel success.That sort of magicwas entirely missingfrom the medical experience.So Hero boasts a colorful display, and even some nice, encouraging whirring noises as it dispenses your pills.Theres also a smartphone app that can alert family members or other caregivers when the dose is taken or if its skipped. (Akdogan emphasized that the app is HIPAA compliant and protects your privacy.)Hero is solely financed by Vepuris firm Brainchild. The deviceis currently available for preorder at a price of $399 (compared to an expected retail price of $999). The plan is to ship Hero in early summer.As for the app, itsbasic functionalitywill be available for free, but youll need to pay if you want thepremium features.