Less than two months after SoftBanks Pepper robot went on sale in Japan, another intelligent humanoidis poised to makeits way into Asia. Thats because Boston-based Jibojust closed an $11 million strategic investment round to (eventually) bring its social robot to households inTaiwan, Japan, Korea and China.Jibo started out as an Indiegogo projectfor a robotic smart assistantthat canhelp families. After pullingin a whopping $3.7 millionfrom its crowdfunding campaign  massively exceedingits $100,000 target  the company went on to land a $25.3 million funding roundled by RRE Ventures in January of this year to kick things up a notch.This time around, the financing, which is an extension of that January 2015 Series Around,comes from a bevvy of Asia-based investors  Acer, Dentsu Ventures, Chinas NetPosa and operators KDDI (Japan) and LG Uplus (Korea) who will help the company expand its sales and marketing to key markets in the region once the product is setfor retail.We went hands-on with Jibo last yearand, unlike Pepper  which is arguably the highest profile robotic assistant in the world right now  a full version is not ready for the world just yet. The prototype we hung out with last summer could communicate, but was limited in its functionality to just dancing. (Fun, but not exactly justifying the $749 pre-order price tag.)Jibo said the fully fledged version will provide a range of different interactions such as handling reminders, ordering food, taking photos/videos, and other everyday assistant tasks like sending email, connecting with internet-of-things devices, or facilitating communication. Like Pepper, it could provide a friendly and easy-to-use interface for seniors looking to keep in touch with family, or keep their routine organized, using the internet.Beyond the cute exterior,Jibo, which was founded by MIT graduateCynthia Breazeal, offers an SDK that letsdevelopers build features and applications for the bot. If that takes off, then it could provide even greater functionality and widen the appeal for potential customers. Theres no enterprise version planned at this point, unlike SoftBankwhich last monthunveiled Pepper For Biz.Jibo ships to more than 45 countries, including the U.S., EU and China, but right now both its developer and consumer units are sold out. The company plans to start shipping developer units this fall, with its earliest Indiegogo backers likely to begin receiving their orders thiswinter.Those who ordered after thatcrowdfundingcampaign can expect their shipments to arrive in late spring 2016. Thats quite a backlog so dont expect Peppers prospective AmericanBFF to pop up inretail stores just yet.