 (hi!) TechCrunch is back in Moscow! TONIGHT were holding a Mini Meetup in conjunction with the Strelka Institute. Well hold a Pitch-Off competition consisting of one-minute pitches with an assembled jury.The meetup starts at 8pm and goes until 10pm / 10.30pm, roughly. It will be fun! Ill be attending and looking for startups and investors to talk to. Add yourself to the Facebook event page here. The Twitter/Facebook Hashtag tonight is #TCMoscow.Toprater.com
Toprater is a social choice platform for search and choose product, services and content.Chill
Chill is a contextual communication app which brings a textless and voiceless communication experience to AppleWatch and Android Wear devices.AppFollow
Track competitors apps in the App Store and Google Play.Owley
A mobile application Audio navigator for visually impaired people.Navigine
Navigine is PAAS for high accuracy indoor location services.PREZZTV
PREZZTV aims to become a single marketplace for eyewitness video.Dropbyke
A stationless bike-sharing system based on a mobile app.Dublway
A ridesharing platform for daily commutes.Where:
Bar Strelka
Bersenevskaya Emb., 14/5A, Moscow 119072, RussiaTime: 
Thursday, June 4, from 8:00 PM to 10:00 / 10:30 PMParticipants interested in competing in the pitch-off will have 60 seconds to explain why their startup is awesome. NO SLIDES. Companies will be chosen by TechCrunch (see above).Pitch-Off Winners
Pitches will be rated by judges. First Place will receive a table in Startup Alley at an upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt & Two Tickets to TheEuropas.com in London. Second Place will receive (2) tickets to an upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt. Third Place will receive (1) ticket to the upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt.Russian Pavilion at TechCrunch Disrupt
There will be a Russian Pavilion at the next Disrupt conference. Demo tables will be affordable and sponsors are welcome to cover part of the cost and make it more interesting for participants. Please contact Maria.adamian@gmail.comAnd whether youre an investor, entrepreneur, dreamer or tech enthusiast, we want to see you at the event. Come one, come all. Its sure to be a night to remember.8:00pm Doors Open
8:30pm Pitch-Off Competition
9:00pm Winners Announced
9:30pm NetworkingNotes
This is a 18+ age event.Please email Masha Drokova (Mashadrokova@gmail.com) if your company can sponsor. Sponsors will be named in this post with a logo and sponsor statement of 150 words, plus a link. They will also get one minute to tell the crowd about their company, and named in the post-event post about the event.HotelTonight
Founded in 2010, HotelTonight is a mobile app for booking hand-selected hotels at exclusively low prices, from tonight to up to seven days in advance. HotelTonight helps consumers plan less and live more, by offering incredible convenience and amazing value at hotels vetted by the HT team. For hotels, HotelTonight is a strategic partner for filling rooms that would otherwise remain empty. HotelTonight is currently available in more than 500 destinations across the globe. Based in San Francisco, Calif., HotelTonight is backed by top venture firms including Coatue Management, GGV Capital, U.S. Venture Partners, Accel Partners, Battery Ventures, First Round Capital and leading travel-industry pioneers.Yota
Yota is a Russian telecommunication company, an operator of wireless communication, which provides unlimited Internet on all devices. The main directions of the company are rendering of services of mobile communication and unlimited 4G Internet. Yota mobile services include federal coverage in 2G / 3G / 4G, unlimited Internet for smartphones, roaming-free space across Russia, free calls within the network Yota and other moments. The company is focused on smartphones and tablets users, which are used to be online constantly. As a part of providing unlimited 4G-Internet services, Yota offers to users a simple and convenient access to the network, using compact routers and modems. Yota company was founded in 2007, now it is currently one of the leaders in the industry of wireless broadband access (BBA) in the world. Yota was the first company, which offered to users an access to fast 4G mobile internet, based on WiMAX technology, and also built a first LTE network in Russia.OORRAA
OORRAA aggregates commercial activity across Russias offline wholesale businesses on one central platform providing buyers and sellers the first frictionless interaction experience and a one-stop solution for all commercial activity. Launched in October 2014, OORRAA.com is already used by more than 4000 merchants from all over Russia.Obvious LLC
Obvious LLC is a Siberian start-up. Obvious has developed a simple menu for iOS and for Android which modifies normal way of inputting data into a device. This menu consists of only 1 button which dramatically reduces the steps needed for inputting information into a device. No more arduous typing, scrolling, tapping, swiping. The first app of Obvious LLC is a grocery list. All the existing grocery shopping list are overloaded and complicated. We help people to solve this simple task. The final goal of the company is to build a range of one-button productivity applications and a range of industrial one-button mobile CRM, one-button mobile based UI for industrial data bases for stock and supply chain management.