
Jordan Ritter is founder and CEO of
Ivy Softworks and was co-founder of Napster.Theres a lot of glory and fun when youre immersed in the startup experience. Building a team from scratch usually means that everything is fresh and unwritten. Joining a new venture to do something thats never been done before is exhilarating. And having an impact on the mission of your young new company is empowering. You get to say, This has my fingerprints on it. We did that.But, lets be honest, its also a lot more challenging to hire in an early-stage business because so many things arent defined and you have to figure out everything on your own. Hiring, in particular, is more of achallenge in a new company than in a large enterprise with years of brand equity, established culture and specialized roles.Finding the right people who will thrive in this kind of environment fascinates me. Bringing together people who share common values, beliefs, principles and traits  and who can blend well to form a wonderful startup team  is an exciting and mission-critical task. And, as Ive learned, and relearned, the hiring choices you make early on are the most important decisions you make.Most A teams in a startup leave their profound mark on the companys culture  its values and principles  and this influence perpetuates itself as the business grows and scales. The quality bars dont necessarily shift as the organization expands over time; however, the responsibility for enforcing them does, as the CEO gradually gives way in this area to management and then company-wide leadership.But how do you assemble this A team in the first place? Well, when were interviewing someone, we can often see, or even intuit, if theres an energetic exchange, a common belief system or a mutual language that reflects the soft skills wereseeking. Im sure youve experienced this in your business, too  its really justsomething you feel, and its hard to formalize it organization-wide.Having said that, there are a handful of core beliefs that I do seek, no matter the company, challenge or mission. And, yes, I look for these core beliefs in order to build a more open and harmonious company, but also to make sure  or as sure as possible  that the person on the other end of the conversation will fit in and be happy after joining the team.The most important skill in a startup is a persons ability to learn and acquire new skills. Some call this capacity for mastery, others think of it as velocity of learning; but almost everyone recognizes this as a persons potential.Adaptability definitely matters, too. In the early days of a company, youre often hunting in the dark. Youre trying to find that line of revenue. Youre trying to create something that will work in the market to make the business successful.You also know that whatever you initially build youre going to set on fire  youre going to burn it down and rebuild it again and again. You know youre not going to get it right the first time, so youre going to have to iterate and change.I also love the notion of craftsmanship. I believe that, as we get better and better at cranking out new things in the industrialized era of software engineering, craftsmanship is really a point of differentiation.Craftsmanship counts for me  and Im sure it does for you, too  because its just frustrating to keep seeing the same standard, boorish and unimaginative buttons, modal dialogs and File menus. Technology now affords us creative, inspiring interfaces that understand and adapt to us; and, as a value, craftsmanship is no longer something that requires compromise.Related to craftsmanship is another important value  obsession. Obsession with detail; obsession with perfection; obsession with moving forward. In my view, obsession is the rocket fuel of creativity and productivity that pushes your idea out into the world.And I try hard not to confuse obsession with passion. But its not always easy. If I asked you whether Bill Gates or Steve Jobs were passionate or obsessive, for example, your first answer might be passionate. But think about the focus, endurance and perseverance that areinherent in obsession. These arent attributes we normally associate with passion.There are two other key traits Im searching for whenever Im building a great team.First, dirty hands. Everybody has to dig in and do in the early days of a company. Thats your personal responsibility in a startup. Theres no off-loading or delegating or managing  theres just doing, even if that leads to being wrong and making mistakes. If you have clean hands, youre not really doing, and youre not really in it.Lastly, Im looking for people who are inclusive. I think I define this a bit differently than most. For me, its all about listening to others with humility, truly internalizing what theyre saying and feeling, giving it open and objective consideration,then speaking with conviction. We all grow. And the reason we grow is that were reaping the full rewards of being present for each other. This is creative and constructive collaboration on emotional steroids.I want to emphasize that theres no perfect or right way to find the talent that will successfully launch and grow a startup. But after participating and leading five startups, I know what works. In fact, each time I build a company, I incorporate new theories, new experiments and new strategies into the hiring process.The bottom line is simple and clear: If you practice and model the best hiring practices and skills, and you instill a solid hiring philosophy in the beginning, you will eventually have a growing and maturing company that is driven by teams of great people.