There are a number of services today that allow you to create and send digital invitations to birthdays, parties and other events, where the invites themselves are sent out via email, social networks, or even by postal mail if you choose. But a new application called Hobnob, launching now, is designed instead to support invite delivery entirely via SMS and MMS. This means recipients will receive the invites immediately, the company says, and organizers in return will get prompt RSVPs.As someone who has sent and responded to my fair share of Evites andFacebook Event invites in the past, I get the appeal of this app. In fact, I hacked together just this sort of thing for myself in the past. I saved a screenshot of the paper invite I was sending out formy daughters birthday party, which Ithen texted around to friends and family. It was just easier that way.Hobnob co-founder and CEO Tina Fitch, previously the CEO of travel commerce and loyalty platform Switchfly, found herself facing a similar situation. She says she couldnt believe she was still receivinginvitations to events via Evite emails filled with ads. Meanwhile, she noticed that Facebook Event users often failed to RSVP.I found myself organizing and discussing these types of events via group text, not social media or email, explains Fitch. But that had its drawbacks, she says. Group text is fine for chat, but is annoying for things like group events where you get random comments from people whose number you dont recognize at all hours of the night. And it doesnt get anyone excited about the occasion, she adds.Thats how she came up with the idea for an app that would let you build invites that looked great on the phone, while also supporting the conveniences of group texting without the annoyances. She then asked longtime friendsMark Quezada (co-founder of FastCustomer and CardBux) and TiffanyQuezada, whose background includes event management and fashion, to help her build Hobnob.The Hobnob app itself is as easy to use as any other invite app. You begin by entering details about your event, including the event name, location, start time and date, and, optionally, the end time and date. You can pickone of several designer templates provided by swiping through the various previews, or you can upload your own photo or design.There are only a handful of templates, so you may prefer to use your own photos. But more templates will arrive in time  including paid options, which is how the startup plans to generate revenue for its otherwise free service.As alast step, you select your event recipients by pulling their contact info from your phones address book, enter in your own name and phone number, and your invites are sent out automatically.The best thing about the app is that you dont have to register for an account to use it; it asks you to confirm your mobile number, but theres no email sign-up or social networking integration required. And even better: your guests dont have todownload the app in order to read their invite either.Instead, they simply receive a text message which includes a photo of the invite you designed. The accompanying text explainsthat the host has invited them to an event, offers a link to the events web page, and instructs them to reply YES or NO to RSVP. (They can also RSVP from the web.)Event hosts can alsomanage their RSVPs in the app and chat with their guests directly.We believe there is app fatigue, and more and more people want to see value from services like ours without having to always download an app from the start, says Fitch. We accomplish this with hybrid messaging, leveraging either SMS or push notifications depending on each user and what is most convenient for him or her.The startup has been running apublic beta with over 1,000 testers around the U.S., and has now spread the app to nearly every U.S. state. Testers have been using the app for events that range in size from just 2 people to over 340, notes the CEO. And theyve seen 300 percent higher guest response rates when compared toFacebook Events or Evites, she says.The bootstrapped startup is a team of four based in Hawaii. Hobnob is currently a free download from iTunes.An Android app isin the works.