
Chad Perry is a veteran sales leader and current VP of sales for Motivosity, a cloud-based rewards and recognition platform that helps companies increase employee engagement, retention and productivity.In my previous TechCrunch article you learned that Im a big fan of the millennial generation. A really big fan.So much so, and as a result of the article, Ive been informed by several individuals (both publicly and privately) that I am a millennial trapped in a GenX body.Ill take that.Thats because I find a millennials way of thinking and discovery, their non-acceptance of poor management and their demand for communication, clarity and understanding refreshing.But, as many also pointed out, there are two sides to the millennial versus non-millennial conversation.It cant only be about an experienced workforce acquiescing proven management principles in an effort to mollycoddle (direct quote) a very talented, but as of yet inexperienced, generation.So millennials, listen up. Fair is fair. Now its your turn.Here are some tricks you can learn from us old dogs that will help you create the work culture you (and we) desire.I remember a particular time in my career when I was feeling unbelievably confident. It was right after back-to-back quarters of record-setting sales.I felt unstoppable and on top of the world.Then a directive came down from corporate that I absolutely disagreed with. Im telling you they couldnt have missed the mark more if they had tried. Or so I thought.They were old, out-of-touch and clearly hadnt thought this through. Sound familiar?So, like any self-respecting, success-driven, ladder-climbing GenXer should do, I fired off an email to corporate and informed themof their shortsightedness. No punches or people were held back. No stone was left unturned.A lesser leader would have, and probably should have, fired me on the spot.Yet my leader, who himself was a Boomer trying to figure out how to assimilate this new GenXer into his organization, calmly pulled me aside and said, Some of your points were right and should have been heard. Some of your points were misinformed and better left unsaid. If you had asked, I would have shared some information with you. Today, you hurt yourself just as much as the people you threw under the bus.He was right.Millennials, seek to be understood. Categorically, you know I believe we need to do a better job at understanding you. But, in return, you also need to seek understanding from those with more experience than you. Its a two-way street.Remember, understanding isnt acceptance or agreement. But its the best way to make the most informed and most successful decisions.As a young sales representative, I remember watching in admiration a more senior sales professional. Think of a sales record; she had broken it. Think of a name-brand company; she had closed them. Imagine the biggest of big commission checks; she had cashed them.To top it all off, everybody liked her.Thats because she was always sending thank you notes and gift baskets and, on occasion, sending people on weekend trips as a way of thanking them for their help.At the time, it didnt make sense to me. She did her job. They did theirs. If they wanted the big commission checks and the trappings that went a long with them, they should become a sales professional.I asked her about it one day, and Ill never forget the conversation.She told me that no individual was ever self-made. There were engineers who designed the product; manufacturers who built the product; warehouses that stored and shipped the product; and the litany of professionals who installed, provided training and supported the product.Take those away, and she didnt have anything to sell.She didnt feel it hurt to say thanks and share some of her rewards with the people who made her job easier. She never felt it took away from her status. In hindsight, I think it actually added to her status.I hope millennials reading this learn the same thing I learned that day: In the quest for achievement and advancement, no person is self-made.Just as you want to be recognized, remember that youll get further in your career by recognizing, thanking and acknowledging others for their assistance than if you keep the recognition all to yourself.I have two neighbors down the street who are in their mid-seventies. One I pestered into signing up for Gmail; the other I hounded until he got a smartphone.Each had spent his career in education one at the elementary level, the other at the collegiate level.Honestly, its not possible to be more different when it comes to generational, educational and professional pursuits.Yet both are mentors to me.Its true, they dont understand and frankly cant relate to what Im going through, or have been through. But there isnt a challenge Ive faced, or a question Ive had, where they didnt have some insight that was beneficial for me to consider.Even if it were just to say, Yeah, I did some pretty dumb things in my career as well. Hang in there, it will pass.Millennials, youre smart and can contribute much better than we could at your age. But, dont forget that experience brings with it the wisdom you may not have developed yet.Youll get there but the quickest path to wisdom isnt to throw shade on the old guard completely. Just the parts that dont make sense.Really, as some have pointed out, the discussion of millennials versus non-millennials is probably less about generational differences than about the generational miscommunication going on right now.Just remember: To be a good leader, you also have to know how to be a good follower.