One of themost sought-after, but never quite dominated, frontiers in online media and marketplaces has been centered onlocal communities.There have been many attempts, most famously and disastrously with AOLs Patch effort, and there are some very promising platforms like Nextdoor, which raised more than $100 million earlier this year. But hyperlocal marketplaces and media are far from a done deal.Hoodline, a San Francisco-based startup, is trying totackle this with a unique focus on news about neighborhood retail corridors. The startup hasbuilt up a network of news on about two-dozen neighborhoods across San Francisco as a sort of Trojan horse into a larger platform ofhyperlocal listings and markets. (Disclosure: Hoodline co-founder Eric Eldon used to be my boss and was aco-editor ofTechCrunch for a few years.)The platform currently has more readers than there are residents in the neighborhoods it covers. About a third of sessions come from users who arechecking the site at least nine times per month, and traffic has quadrupled in the last year.Hoodlines bread and butter dont overlap perfectly with what youd find in the San Francisco Chronicle. Theyll pick up short items down to the block-by-block level about neighborhood businesses and event listings.We want to be accessible to everyone from the old-school progressives andto the tech workers, Eldon says. Were quietly encouragingtech people to be more community minded  but dont tell anyone that! What you really end up seeingwith Hoodline is that the whole tech-San Francisco dichotomy is not as real when you look at it from the ground level.Underlying all of these bits of news is a technology platform thataims to quickly surface data on everything from building permits to crime. Because of this, editorial costs are relatively low between hundreds of short items and longer and larger budget pieces like this one on the citys new homeless czar Sam Dodge.The team at Hoodline has come up with a unique approach that combines high-quality editorial content with a powerful technology platform for providing more than just news content, said Charles Hudson, who invested inthe company while he was at SoftTech.Theyre also experimenting with new products like an elections guide that makes recommendations based onthe collective endorsements of different groups ranging from thevarious democratic clubs to LGBT clubs in the city. Theyre also putting together event calendars for every neighborhood and also recently partnered with Nextdoorto run pilots on content.Other investors includeKeith Rabois of Khosla Ventures,Shervin Pishevar, Rob Benson, Matthew Cowan,Jes Wolfe, Jonathan Heiliger,Bill Lee,Cyan and Scott Banister,Ligaya Tichy andNick Grandy.