Hopper, the makers of a handy travel application that tells you the best time to fly in order to findthe best deals, has now raised additional capital to continue to grow its business. It has also scored a partnership with American Airlines which allows it to sell AAstickets through its app. In terms of the new investment, thecompany announced $16 million in a growth funding round, led by BDC Capital IT Venture Fund. Existing investors, includingOMERS Ventures, Accomplice (formerly Atlas Venture) and Brightspark Ventures, also participated.That brings the startups total raise to date to $38 million.Though the travel space is rife with competition, Hopper has developed a useful application for those looking for an easier way to figure out when to fly in order to save money on airfare. Its prediction engine uses data and analysis from billions of tracked flight prices to suggest when travelers should buy tickets. The company claims that its capable of saving customers up to 40% on their next flight, thanks to its service.While ever-changing airfare ticket prices are a complex thing to track, thisdata is presented to Hoppers end users in an easy-to-read format by way of Hoppers app. Here, customers can view color-coded calendars which shows which days are affordable (green) to travel, all the way up to expensive days (red.) Youre also able to watch trips, get detailed forecast data, receive alerts when fares drop and more.The end result for customers is being able to snag a ticket without overpaying  though having more flexible travel dates, of course, helps.Whats also interesting about Hopper is that its entirely focused on delivering its product by way of a mobile app, not a website.According toHoppers CEO and founder,Frederic Lalonde, previously a VP at Expedia, the company isnt a mobile-first startup  its mobile-only.We fundamentally believe that the mobile app experience in one shape or form is going to take over all commerce, he says. A hundred percent of what we do is based on mobile. And beyond that, were very much a conversational company in the sense that 90 percent of what we sell comes from a push notification.In other words, when Hopper alerts its users that now is the time to buy, they do.While the company doesnt disclose its revenue, Lalondewould say that everything related to its service is growing at roughly 40 percent month-over-month, and he believes the app will reach 1 million downloads per month this summer.Hopper is still a relatively young company. It launched in early 2015, and was named the #7 best app by Applethat same year. Its also a #4 travel app in the U.S. on the App Store, and #1 in dozens of countries.To date, the app has been downloaded over 3 million times, and has monitored fares for over 5 million watched trips worth over $4.5 billion in gross booking value. It has also sentover 38 million push notifications to users, with 7.3 million being sent last month alone, the company reports.Hopper has increased its accuracy since its debut, too, and now claims its 95 percent accurate in terms of predictingticket prices within $5 of the actual fare up to a year ahead. But Lalonde points out that, while Hopper has improved its performance 3 percent since last year, it has done so in areas that matter  like holiday travel, for example.In addition to the new funding, Hopper has also now signed a deal with American Airlines that will make American Airlines and American Eagle fares available in its app. This includes around 6,700 daily flights to nearly 350 destinations in over 50 countries. This is notable because AA was one of the few holdouts to yet offerits faresin HopperThe apptoday supports almost all major airlines fares.The companys business model involves a combination of compensation from airlines, and a $5 convenience fee charged to consumers.With the new capital, Hopper plans to grow its team of 25 in Montreal and Cambridge.Its soon rolling out a number of new features that will allow it to push recommendations to users and offer a more personalized experience. For instance, users will be able to specify things like a desire to avoid long layovers or the ultra-low cost fares in favor of regular tickets, and the app will suggest things users may not know to look for  like alternative airports, for instance.The startup also plans to increase its focus on international travel by year-end, with a focus on more accurate pricing, no matter where users book.