Houzz co-founder and CEOAdi Tatarkosays she wants to redefine the word unicorn in tech industry lingo. The term, which refers to companies whose valuations are in the billion-dollar range, could easily apply to what Tatarko and her husband Alon Cohenbuilt with Houzz, a company that now sees 35million unique visitors per month, and over 800,000 home professionals likearchitects, decorators, and contractors engaging on the service.After all, Houzz has a rumored valuation of$2.3 billionas its last fundraising round, easily making it a member of the so-called unicorn club.But speaking on stage at the TechCrunch Disrupt event this morning in San Francisco, Tatarko admitted that she didnt like the term unicorn, and wanted to offer a different definition. Unicorns are magical creatures by nature, she explained, so shed rather see startups dubbed unicorns judged by different metrics.I would like to see them judged by the magic they bring to industries and their users, rather than their price tag by investors, statedTatarko. The magic is about the transformation [they bring to industries], she explained.The CEO wouldnt confirm (or deny) her own companys valuation or total funding, though CrunchBase reports the home remodeling and design-focused online marketplace has raised nearly $214 million from a number of top-shelf investors, including Sequoia Capital, KPCB, NEA, DST and others.But the secret to Houzzs success  and its ability to attract this level of VC interest and its own unicorn-level valuation  has been the companys heads-down focus on product, not hitting funding milestones.The company actually started off fairly modestly as a side project by ahusband-and-wife team who were interested in building aproduct they needed for themselves, while they struggled through their own remodeling project back in 2009. (That project finally completed this year,Tatarko noted today with a smile, butadmitting that her redecorating never ends.)Instead of focusing on getting investors, Houzz bootstrapped in its early days, learning from consumers and service professionals about what they liked, and then responded accordingly.We werebootstrapping for a long time, says Tatarko, but product was our first priority fromday one. The goal was always to follow their ownpassion andcreate a product the teamloved and peoplearound themreally loved, she continued.While Tatarkoadmits thats not something thats possible for every startup, Houzzsfocus on product actually brought investors to their door. Many founders have to prove to investors that they have a good product and they are the ones to scale it, she says. Houzz did not. The proof was in the startups organictraction and growth and the passion of its community.With the funds available and its business model, Tatarko says Houzz is fine for a long time with regard to raising more money, and isnt champing at the bit to raise more just because they can in todays somewhat frothy climate. But that doesnt mean an IPO is on Houzzs near-term roadmap, either, the CEO said.While the company is keeping its options open, for the time being, Houzz is committed to remaining a private company.Instead of going public, Houzz is looking to expand its footprint worldwide. In the U.S. and Europe alone, the home remodeling and design industries combined are a trillion-plus-dollar market, but theres still room to grow in otherregions while also expanding beyond just home design and projects, as Houzz did when it acquired GardenWeb this summer,Tatarko said.