Given the massive influx of capital that we are currently enduring in Silicon Valley, TechCrunch has decided to take another crack at thelexicon of the moment to help everyone understand just what people mean when they say things that make you want to snag them by the hair and give them a noogie.Following our previous entry, this list is an expansion  we are here to help, after all. If you disagree with one of our definitions, please do the following: Take your headphones off, quietly leave the building, find the bay, throw your phone into it, and then stick your head in the sand.We love you too1. Here we go:We Do Things that Dont Scale  We host lots of expensive launch parties in various cities, mostly so we can spend time catching up with our friends who arent good enough to work in The Valley and expense it to our angel investors. We have also read Paul Grahams most popular essays.Cloud  The Internet.A Brunch  n. A collection of post-Series A startup employees.$4 Toast  Now $5.Hacker House  A homeless shelter for nerds.Series B  What you will not raise.We are rapidly iterating  We are making successive decisions about our product that assume less and less with each cycle, untilWe are pivoting  Yeah so at this point we have absolutely no idea what were doing, but well be damned if we have to return unspent capital to our investors. Fail early and often, right?Twitters user growth  [Definition missing]Well have a beta ready by October.  Check back in the New Year.Cap Table Thing that your CEO doesnt really understand, but promises is in good shape.Term Sheet  The pieces of paper which might potentially bind you to an OPM dealer. [See previously: OPM, abbr. Other Peoples Money]YC Fellows Program  Proof that the first taste of OPM is free.Startup  That project youve kind of been working on with some of your friends, which you mostly use as a vehicle for your fantasies of becoming Zuck-scale wealthy. (Spoiler alert: those fantasies are just as achievable as your startup idea is feasible.)Unicorn  As if metaphors in Silicon Valley couldnt get more childish.Uber  What you are not the next of.Were the Uber for X  We have bad unit economics and are proud of it.Lift  What your startup doesnt have.We have lots of unstructured big data.  We have a big pile of shit in a bucket.Sam Altman  The person you want to know, you claim that you know, you dont know, and your friends know that you dont know. They are being polite.CES  The only reason anyone ever went to a Qualcomm presser.We have a keg in the office  Our CEO is a raging alcoholic and is desperate for some reason to start drinking. See also: Morning kombucha.Office dog  The reason why no one got shit done today.TechCrunch  Something that is still alive, against all odds.PR Agency  A pyramid scheme by another name.Marlowe  The place where people who think that Marlowe is cool try to impress people who know that Marlowe isnt cool. Youll still eat the burger though, because its almost as good as the chicken sandwich. Also, great bar staff. (Please dont ban us, we need fries.)The comments are yours, Let loose hell, friends, for we have the August Capital party to head to shortly.1. Jason wrote all the shitty ones.