A company that saw the potential in the iPad as a tool for work, not just play, is PlanGrid, a construction management software application thats like a Google Docs for blueprints. But getting the PlanGrid app into the hands of general contractors, construction workers, architects, engineers and others on the project team  people who traditionally use paper documents, and in some cases, arent necessarily techs early adopters  was one of the looming challenges facing the company in its early days.However,thats an obstacle the multi-million-dollar company PlanGrid has managed to overcome. The app, which todayhas 650,000 users, both free and paid, is a testament to the power to disrupt industries which had largely been ignored by software developers.As co-founder and CEO Tracy Youngexplains, PlanGrids biggest competitor is not another mobile application on the iTunes App Store or Google Play  its paper, she says.Youngs background as a construction engineer placedher in the perfect position to see the problem of an industry that operated on paper. She saw paperarchitectural drawings that cost hundreds of dollars to print out, and realized there could be a better way.The paper problem is very obvious to any construction manager and construction engineer in the field, she said, speaking on stage this morning at the TechCrunch Disrupt 2015 event in San Francisco.But you couldnt easily drag a personal computer out to the job site. Thats why, when Steve Jobs introduced the iPad in 2010, Young immediately saw how revolutionary the device could be in her industry.Young explained that in construction, plans are constantly changing, too. For example, if a wall is going to be moved 50 feet, you would need another set of blueprints. Or really, dozens of prints for everyone on the team.In addition, its not uncommon for things to be built off the wrong set of drawings because of delays in getting new plans into the hands of construction workers. In fact, she recalled one incident when she was working as an engineer where a roomwasrebuilt five times because of this exact issue.With PlanGrid, the original idea was to allow everyone involved with a construction project the ability to view the blueprints on their iPad through a simple interface that even the least tech-savvy workers could use.Over time, the app has expanded its capabilities. Today, customers use PlanGrid to share plans, markups, photos and reports with their entire project team. It also now works on both iOS and Android devices, and allows users to collaborate even whileoffline. The latter feature is necessary due to the nature of the construction work, which is often far away from Wi-Fi signals or strong cellular coverage.Youngs story of how PlanGrid came to be is one thats inspiring to anyone working in a field that hasnt yet been impacted by the tech or mobile revolution atthe same scale as others. Its about seeing aproblem firsthand, and believing that youre the one capable of solving it.Still,growing PlanGrid to a company of now 150 and scoring an $18 million Series A from Sequoia wasnt something that just happened. The team had to overcome a number of challenges along the way, including the loss of one of the original co-founders to cancer.[The co-founders death]forced usto ask ourselves if this was want we want to be doing with our lives, said Young, referring to continuing to build the company. And the answer then, and the answer now, is yes. Were the best ones to do it because we actually really care, she added.In addition, the team had to figure out how to get their softwareinto the hands of their customers  especially back in the early days when the iPad was thought of as more of a toy than a tool.One more amusing story Young shared this morning was about howthe team maxed out their credit cards to buy iPads from Apple Stores  making multiple trips because ofthe limits of how many tablets you could buy at one time. After acquiring 18 devices, they then began to worrythat their hacker house in Sunnyvale would berobbed before they could get the iPads to customers. So the founders ended up hiding the iPadsthroughout the house  under pots, and even in the microwave.Of course, those iPads werent stolen, and the rest, as they say, is history.One thing that Young says has not been a challenge for PlanGrid, however, is being a woman in a traditionally male-dominated field  or rather two fields: both construction and technology.When I wake up in the morning, I dont think, oh, Im a female,' saidYoung. It wasnt something I had to overcome.She also offered some great advice for other women working their way up in the technology field, as well:Yes, there are haters. But there are a lot more smart, hard-working people who believe that intelligence is equally distributed across race and gender. And they are here to work with you, she said.Though PlanGrid has now built a successful business in a paper-dominated industry, the team has no plans to slow down. Not only is there still plenty of room to grow in the U.S., where paper is still used on the majority of todays construction projects, the challenge PlanGrid aims to solve isnt only a U.S.-centric problem.Plus, Young tells us that going forward, PlanGrids roadmap will see the company expand to encompass all the other tasks that accompany construction projects through the PlanGrid app, ranging from team collaboration, planning, project management, and beyond. With those goals, theres plenty of room for PlanGrid to grow for years to come.[PlanGrid] will be here 50 years from now, 100 years from now, Young proclaimed.