It was always weird that Snapchat exposed who you snapped with most in the Best Friends list, so today the app is ditching that for a new private way to see who youre closest to. Only you will see these new Friend Emojis onyour screen of incoming snaps.Heres what Snapchats Friend Emojis mean:Previously, you or anyone with you in their contacts could go to your Snapchat profile and see who you sent snaps to most, and there was no way to turn this off. This might have made people question their friendship with someone if they didnt appear in their Best Friends list, and may have outted romantic partners who were SnapCheating  sending snaps to another crush.Rather than blog about, Snapchat actually hid the brief instruction manual for Friend Emojis in the Snap Channel of its apps Discover section.For a video demo of how Friend Emojis work, plus funny coverage of tech and Silicon Valley life, follow me on Snapchat at JoshConstine or by focusing your Snapchat camera on my QR Snaptag over here.There are also two more new features. A Moon icon at the top of the camera lets you turn on and off a low-light mode for the camera. Previously, Snapchats camera was terrible in low light compared to most phones default cameras. Now when youre in the dark, the moon icon will appear, and you can tap it to instantly brighten what youre looking at, making Snapchat better at night, parties, and concerts.Snapchat also wants to remind you to send snaps to people you havent in a while. When you go to pick friends to send a Snap to, under your list of Recents who youve snapped with a lot recently, youll see a section of Needs Love, who are people you used to snap with a lot but havent sent one to in a while.Friend Emojis and Needs Love both turn Snapchat into more of a game. These features could make people want to snap more so they get a Snapstreak or become someones best friend, and guilt them about not snapping with certain people anymore.If these, or other Snapchat features seem confusing, thats sort of the point. The company hopes it users will teach each other how the features work, and that questions about them on social media will make the app more viral. Sneaky. Smart.More Snapchat Tricks:Follow someone by scanning their QR SnaptagAdd a soundtrack to your Snaps