
Ashish Krishna is the co-founder and designer at MammothI love design and startup and I firmly believe magical companies emerge when these two meet, e.g. Braun, Apple, Airbnb, Medium, YouTube, Square, and Nest. The critical mass of combined business, design and technical skills have made these companies incredibly successful.But I always feel people overcomplicate design with their multiple principles and frameworks. Design should be simple, replicable and top of mind in a startup. AtMammothwe think of design as a state of mind, a simple yet creative approach to a problem. Its how we think we willempathize with our users and unearth unarticulated opportunities. This is how we approach it.Dont be dogmatic about process, specs and beautiful renders.Speed to market, learning and building is what matters; not your pixel perfect Photoshop mocks and documentation. The thing you should strive for perfection with should be your shipped product, not your mockup. Ultimately, users see your product, not Photoshop files. Put a greater focus on designing experiences rather than on spec and deliverables.Design narratives, not screens.While people around you will always ask to designa few screens, i.e. onboarding, sign-up flows, referrals etc.; as a designer you should always think about them in narratives, not individual screens. Because stories have characters, context and emotions. Think about a users entirejourney  how she achieves the goal (from being a visitor to a repeat user) and not only the outcome (make her sign up).Design with a PoV, learn and then design with numbers.I am sure when you are doing a startup, you must have started with a critical hypothesis based on some user pain youempathized with. Unlike many big companies where designers and product teams are supposed to ship and check a milestone,you the startup designer need to realize that shipping is just another daily chore for you.Think about what exactly you are measuring to test your PoV. Start playing with analytics tools, e.g. Mixpanel, Heap, Google Analytics, to see how your design is performing with users. Analyze that performance, compare it to your initial hypothesis and derive insights. Find out what really happened, learn from and get back to shipping again and again.Inone of her seminal posts,Julie Zhuo, product design directorof Facebook, posted agraphic about the design process good/experienced designers follow. It does a great job of illustrating the difficulty of the design work that happens after you ship a product at a startup. Its all about iterations.Design with committee and not design-by-committee.You should also involve your product/feature team throughout the UX cycle. But keep the reins with you, because theres nothing worse than a productdesigned by committee. Listen to everyone, respect everyones PoV and design with all the insights combined.Developers are your best friend.A designer is only as good as a developer and vice versa. Shes the one who can bring life to your mocks and all the interactions that youd thought of and/or prototyped. So bring her a box of donuts and her favorite drink and create the magic together.Be a part of customer support.Even better, head the customer support, that means talking to your users everyday on social media, support forums. It will definitely give you a better perspective about what to do and what to not do. It might not be as helpful as contextual research or a lab study but itll all keep you abreast ofwhats working, whats not and what more people are looking to get from your product.Use pen(cil) more.Dont jump to Sketch, Photoshop or HTML/CSS. No matter how fast you are with your digital tools, you can be at least 5 times faster with a pencil. Pencil sketches are cheaper, get you better feedback and let you iterate much faster.Learn (always, always, always).Analytics, Git, HTML, CSS and all thatleft-brained stuff that we dont really care about, matter and matter a lot for your startup. Try to get involved with your dev/test/product science team (if you have one), or step up and learn. Being a one-trick pony is okay and appreciated if youre working for a big organization, but a designer for a startup is so much more than a designer; be a product manager, a front-end guy, a customer support hero and you will add tons of value to your company and yourself.Take care of yourself and the people around you.Startup life can be really difficult. Share an occasional laugh with your kid, go for a dinner with your spouse or partner, play a quick game of tennis, drink a glass of wine. Enjoy design.