
Nir Eyal is the author of Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products and blogs about the psychology of products. Chances are, youve experienced the following situation: Youre with a small group of friends at a nice restaurant. Everyone is enjoying the food and conversation when someone decides to take out his phone not for an urgent call, but to check email, Instagram and Facebook.Maybe youve witnessed this behavior and found it unsettling. What do you do? Do you sit idly by, thinking disparaging thoughts? Or do you call out the offender?For years, I accepted ill-timed tech use as a sign of the times. Sherry Turkle, an author and professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, diagnosed the situation succinctly: We expect more from technology and less from each other.I used to do nothing in the face of indiscriminate gadget use. Now Ive come to believe that doing nothing is no longer okay. Staying silent about bad technology habits is making things worse for all of us.Paul Graham, the famed Silicon Valley investor, observedthat societies tend to develop social antibodies defenses against new harmful behaviors. He uses the example of cigarette smoking: Smoking in public became taboo over the span of just one generation after social conventions changed. Legal restrictions played a part, but a shift in the perception of smokers  from cultured to crude  laid the groundwork for public support of smoking bans.Similarly, the remedy to screen indiscretion may be developing new norms that make it socially undesirable to check ones phone in the company of others.Like cigarettes, our personal technology use can become a bad habit. People enter a zone when they use their gadgets. Checking email or scrolling through Facebook can be intoxicating and disorienting. Tech makers design these products using the same psychology that makes slot machines addictive. Thevariable rewardsbuilt into apps make time pass quickly, and can makepeopleoblivious to whats happening around them.MostpeopleI know have problems with Internet addiction, Graham wrote in 2010. Were all trying to figure out our own customs for getting free of it. Ironically, despite his awareness, Graham haspouredmillions of dollars into addictive sites and apps, including Reddit and the gaming companies Machine Zone and OMGPop.To be clear, Im not pointing fingers. Like Graham, I am conflicted. My book, Hooked, is a how-to guide for building habit-forming products. I wrote the book in hopes that more companies could utilize the techniques used by Facebook, Twitter and the like to maketheirproducts more engaging. However, the byproduct of making technology better is that sometimes its so good,peoplecant seem to put it down.The trouble, as Graham points out, is that unless the rate at which social antibodies evolve can increase to match the accelerating rate at which technological progress throwsoffnew addictions, well be increasingly unable to rely on customs to protect us. In other words, if we dont build social antibodies, the disease of distraction will become the new normal. But how do we develop and spread social antibodies to inoculate ourselves against bad mobile manners?One solution is to take an explicit approach. At almost every corporate meeting I attend, someone (typically the highest-paid person in the room) starts using his or her personal technology. The behavior is toxic in many ways: It sends a message to everyone in the room that gadget time is more important thantheirtime; it distractspeoplewho assume the boss is sending work their way; and, perhaps worst of all, it prevents the person using the device from participating in the discussion, which means the meeting wasnt worth having in the first place.The best way to prevent this waste of time is for someone senior to mandate a no-screen meeting. In my experience conducting hundreds of workshops, the discussions declared device-free are by far more productive. Setting expectations up front is equivalent to administering a distraction vaccine.In other situations, being explicit isnt as easy. Take the dinner-party scene described earlier. Unlike in a corporate setting, no one at a dinner is the boss, so no one has the inherent right to enforce a device-free fiat.For a while, phone stacking  in whichpeopletossedtheirphonesin the center of the table, and the person who first reached for his phone during the meal had to pay for everyone  was sort of a thing, but it never tookoff, because the whole exercise felt punitive and patronizing.Mostpeopleunderstand that usingtheirgadgets in an intimate social setting is rude  but theres always that one person who doesnt.So whats the best way togetthe transgressoroffthe phone? Embarrassing him in front of others isnt a good idea, assuming you want to stay friends. A more subtle tactic is required. The goal is to snap the offender out of the phone zone and to give him two options: either excuse himself to attend to whatever crisis is happening, or put away the tech. Over time, Ive hit on one way to effectively call out someonewhile keeping things cordial:Aska question.Posing a direct question does the person a favor by pulling him back while sending a clear message. The technique works like a charm. For one, the unexpected question elicits an entertaining reaction sort of like what happens when you hold someones nose when hes dozingoff: He gasps and sputters. But in this case, its not your fault, because you, as questioner, can play dumb. Oh, sorry, were you on your phone? Is everything O.K.? If there really is an emergency, the person can excuse himself  but more often than not, hell tuck it back into his pocket and start enjoying the night.Now is the time to take a stand. Fight fire with fire by sharing articles like this one on social media. Set limits, and dont resign yourself to being ignored. The idea is not to disavow technology completely, but to encouragepeopleto appreciate its power, and to be aware when its power over them is becoming a problem. In the end, technology should serve us  we should not serve it.