Microsoft announced another bunch of job cuts today, primarily in the phone-making divisionwhich it acquired from Nokia in a 2013 deal whichcompleted last year. Shrinking headcount inthis division was something Redmond starteddoinga year ago, soon after gaining full control.Nokia had also been laying off staff prior to the acquisition, as it struggled to transition from afeature phone mindsetto competing effectively with a new generation ofsmartphone makers. We know how that story ended: with Microsoft acquiring Nokias devices business to keep its primary Windows Phone OEM in the fold (rumors of Nokia switching to Android were rife in the run up to the acquisition). While Nokia gained $7.2 billion+ from Microsoft,shed around30,000 staff (handing them off to Microsoft), and bowed out of thehandset-making business  saying it would focus on its remainingbusiness divisions.Since taking phone making in-house,Microsoft has been unable to accelerateits mobile platforms fortunes. The OS has made some modest gains in some European markets but was still rankingbelow 10 per cent share across the five major EU economies, according to Kantar Worldpanel ComTechs smartphone sales data for the three months ending April 2015.The OS isalsoseeing declines in some markets where it had previously been growing. And continues to be shunned in the U.S. Not a performance to write home about. And evidently one thats badenoughto trigger another big round of layoffs. Microsoft said today the 7,800 new jobs cuts areprimarily related to its phone business.In an email to Microsoft staff CEO Satya Nadella also signaled that a shrinking in the portfolio of Windows smartphones is on the cards hardlya surprise given the firm ishiving off large numbers of staff (and has had to take a massive write-down on the acquisition), so will have fewer resources to build phones. In the near-term, well run a more effective and focused phone portfoliowhile retaining capability for long-term reinvention in mobility, he wrote. For more effective and focused read: fewer handsets.Meanwhile, over in Finland, Nokia is preparing the ground to get back into the phone business. Last month the former phone-maker confirmed it plans to design and license smartphones  starting next year, when a contract clause with Microsoft preventing it from using the Nokiabrand on smartphones expires. It has paved the way for this leaner hardware model with an Android tablet called the N1, working with Chinas Foxconn as its manufacturing partner. Nokia hasalso put out its ownAndroid launcher software, givingit alightweight topper for its own-brand Android hardware.So as Microsoft prepares to shrink its mobile efforts, Nokiais firing its engines afresh to compete in mobile again  albeit in a leaner, less capital-intensiveformat with the risk and expense associated with hardware manufacturing outsourced to the same company that assembles devices for Apple. Its a model that requires farfewer in-house staff. And, as fortune would have it, Nokia effectively outsourced the necessary layoffs by sellingits devices division to Microsoft. Quite the resources realignment trick to pull off, but then the company has a very long history of business reinvention.If the biggest risk to long-in-the-toothcorporates is complacency and poor execution caused by increasing size begetting increasing bureaucracy and blinkered perspective on the changes need to keep pace with market moves (and disruptivestartups) then Nokias devices exit starts to look like a stroke of under-pressure genius. A Houdini move to escape a very bad bind that has letitclawback enough rope toloop anew. Meanwhile Microsoft is saddled with costs, a poorly performing mobile businessand the conundrum of the original bind: how to competein an Android and iOS dominated market?How the tech pendulum swings  or it can if you pay it out right. Of course thats not to say that a Nokia built-on-Android devicesstrategy is going to be easy or successful. Competing as an Android OEM is tough and getting tougher as margins are squeezed, smartphone growth slows and competition proliferates. The age old problem of differentiating on a Google-controlled platform hasnt gone away either.One wildcard option for Nokia could be to use an alternative platform to Android. No, not Windows but something a lot closer to home, physically and spiritually: Jollas Sailfish OS  which itself grew out of Nokia, an extension of the open source MeeGo platform continued byagroup of ex-Nokia employees. The Finnish phone startup has justrealigned its own business structureto put more resources into a platform licensing business fully focused onSailfish so it can double down on a strategy of targeting BRICs markets with a localization mobile sales pitch. Its a stretch to say Nokia might be interested in designing hardware that runs on Sailfish but, well, the symmetry would certainly be pleasing. And, more importantly, the opportunity for it to do so exists.And with Microsoft having axed  and still axing  so manyformer Nokia staff theres no shortage of local phone-related talent for the worlds former No.1 mobile makerto pick up again, should its new model mobile armyhaveneed of additionalheadcount.One thing is certainly true: itsgoing to be fascinating to see howthe next round of pendulum swings play out.