You know thestory from beginning to end: A regular old websiteearns popularity, gainstop users who are almost celebrities, and then thesitediesmore quickly than it rose.A lot happens in between, but those are the basics of it.Digg was a perfect example of this.Flickr is another. All of these sites have something in common: A fanatical reliance, if not focus, on community. Its worth remembering that having users is not the same thing ashaving a community.Users use a product, whilea community participates in facets of the site such ashow it works, what features willbe worked on, and so forth. In reddits case, the community even helps the site operate.Reddit has both users and community members. For reddit, one doesnt work without the other; they cannot exist without each other. However, once youve lost the trust of your community  a core group of hardcore users of any number  yourservicewill atrophy, and you will lose your users en masse.Today, reddit issued an apology to nobody in particular to appease who-knows-who. Its temporary CEO, Ellen Pao even provocatively proclaimed that the company had screwed up, not just this time, but many times over the years:I mean it when I say we screwed up, and we want to have a meaningful ongoing discussion. I know weve drifted out of touch with the community as weve grown and added more people, and we want to connect more. I and the team are committed to talking more often with the community, starting now.Predictably, no real examples were given, and thus no real lessons have seem to have been learned. Empty words are fiat currency in the most ironic sense. And, once again, a community company is attempting to reason with an entity that is unknown; a community of anonymous people on the internet.Theres no way to win this battle, because theres no way to put a finger on what the battle is. The only thing that is known is that there will always be a battle.This time the warwas waged over the firing of a popular employee. The next time? No one knows. Why are these battles unwinnable? Because reddits community  and the community of similar services  dont see the site as a business or a company, even though the Paos of the world do. Thetwo will never be aligned.Diggs unwinnable battles are the things legends are made of: The AACS encryption key debacle, and then the death knell thatDigg 4.0brought.When Digg first took the encryption code down from itssite (because they were threatened with a lawsuit), which was posted by its community, itwas called out by its core users for being soft, or for being sell-outs. Those users didnt understand that its really hard to raise money or sell yourself when youre about to be sued.A community doesnt care, because they dont necessarily see you as a company, a profit seeking entity that has light bills and server tabs. They just see pixels and clicks. The two are related, but arent exactly the same.When Digg 4.0 was launched, the community was so angry about the redesign, which they werent consulted about as much as they had been in the past, they left forreddit. This must have infuriated the company, but its founder Kevin Rose dropped a sarcastic ripostewith clear diffidence:If Reddit is your new home and its something you really enjoy Im all for that.The Downward SpiralThats how you lose a community: indifference.The past few days for reddit has been strikingly similar to Diggs last days as a force on the internet, including its founder, Alexis Ohanian, alienating the core community with what they perceived to be indifference:That particular comment was in reference to the following:Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian last night in response to the drama surrounding r/IAmA: Popcorn tastes good. pic.twitter.com/lBsbV0kNS0 Ryan Broderick (@broderick) July 3, 2015Ohanian apologized, but the damage was, and is done.Ellen Pao wont be accepted by the community. No CEO will, because as we know, communities dont care about companies in the same sense. Her apology came from a place where current and future business is all that matters. I mean, its her job, so you cant blame her. Thats why having the founder of the company around is helpful, solong as the community trusts them.If you cant trust the founder? Who can you trust? Ask Yahoo and Digg for the answer. Its nobody.Moral of the story? Making bucks off of the backs of a community is possible, until they take their backs somewhere else.Its a tightrope. Reddit fell off.Rose said he was OK with his community going to Diggs competitor reddit. Where will redditors go?