HTC has just announced its getting into wearables, with a fitness band, drawing ona strategic partnership it announced earlier this year with fitness gear maker Under Armour  who will be supplying the tracking software that the band hooks into.Its HTCs first wearable. But not its first non-smartphone device. Last fall it outeda GoPro style camera accessory targeting the mainstream consumer, called the RE. Its now expanding that expansion with theforthcomingfitness wearable, Grip  which it says is the first of what will be a series of co-branded products with Under Armour.Today we are so excited expanding upon the partnership with Under Armour, said HTC CEO Peter Chou. Together we aim to deliver holistic health & fitness experience on a community platform of more than 130M users worldwide.The Grip wrist band, which will come in a range of bright colors including lime green, is being positioned as a ruggedized, water resistant wearablefor athletes andsports oriented folk, rather thanas a general step tracker to motivate people who dont move very much (although it does do step tracking). Different types of activity will be trackable, from walking to cycling to gym sessions.Its evidentlysomething of a test the waters approach to the wearables market for HTC at this nascent stage  with a U.S. launch confirmed but the companystill evaluating whether other regions such as Europe will also get the band.The Griphas a pedometer and GPS, the latter being relatively rare for fitness wristbands  although Microsofts fitness band includes GPS, as do more fully featured sports watches  along withBluetooth Low Energy so it can hook into additional fitnessdevices, such as aheart rate monitor,for more granular tracking.It can also be connectedto a phone to get notifications. There are no buttons on the band but users have the ability to respond to notifications with pre-set gestures via the 1.8 curved monochrome touchscreen  such as sending a message saying theyre in the gym and will call later. The wearablecan also be used as a remote control to change the music on aphone or other device its linked it.The Grip wearablewill support different workout modes, such as a gym mode, cycling, indoor and outdoor running. These will need to bemanually switched in the initial release, but HTC tells TechCrunchthere is scope for a firmware upgrade to support automatic switching based on contextual awareness in future, thanks to the built in GPS.At this point battery life is rated at around 2.5 days when its being used as astep tracker, or five hours with theGPS fully engaged.The wristbandcan be paired with iOS devices as well as Android. It will integrate with Under Armours tracking portal, Record  which can aggregate sleep, steps, active time, distance, workouts, caloriesburned and weight.TechCrunchs Jordan Crook contributed to this report