HTC hasjust dropped another tidbit of newshere in Barcelona, on the eve of the Mobile World Congress trade show. Namely that its gearing up to compete in the gaming wearable space, announcing a partnership with games publisherValvetobring avirtual reality headset tomarket, called the HTC Vive  to compete with the likes of the Oculus Rift.HTC said a consumer version of the Vive will be coming before the end of this year, with a dev edition landing this spring.In recent years we have seen the first forays into creating [virtual reality]experience. But no one has definedthe ideal experience. Today we are ready to take you into that world  fully immersed. We will bring you a virtual reality experience no one has seen before, with a ground breaking partner  Valve, said HTC CEO Peter Chou announcing the Vive on stage.We believe virtual reality will totally transform the way we interact with the world. It will become a mainstream experience for general consumers. The possibilities are limitless.The Vive will offer aroom-scale VR experience, delivered via over 70 sensorsto provide full 360 room-scale tracking. The refresh rate will be 90 Hertz  for what HTC said will be a new benchmark for performance and comfort. A.k.a. it wont make you feel nauseous.Wearers of the headset will be able to exploreobjects from all angles looking up and down, according to HTC  and wont just be able to look around but move around and interact much as you do in the real world, using it in conjunction with a series of wireless controllers. The headset itself is described as lightweight to aid comfort.Chou suggested the Vivewill enable multiple types of VR experiences  such asviewing scenery, attending real-time concerts, watching films, 3D chat and even shopping.Valve is a high-profile partnership win for HTC, given the brandscachet in the gaming space. The formerhad already been sniffing around VR, showing off a proof of concept headset last summer. Its also been working on making atouchpad controller for its Steam platform  albeit thats been long-delayed.Valvesoriginal announcement for the Steam controller wasin fall 2013butin May last year itsaid therelease was delayed till 2015. Those delays may explain why its keen to partner with a seasoned hardware maker for a VR headset.As well as working with Valve and its Steam platform, HTC alsoname-checked some initial content partners for the Vive  including HBO, Lionsgate Entertainment, Google and Taiwans National Palace MuseumWorking with these partners to deliver the worlds greatest VR experiences, it said.HTC will also be building tools to letsconsumers create their own VR experiences using its forthcoming headset. Its launched a website, HTCVR.com, where it said it will be sharingmore details about the Vive.Does the world need another face computer? HTC and Valve reckon so, albeit one thats specifically targeted at gamersinstead of  as in the spectacularly unfocused (puns intended) case of Google Glass  attempting to persuade generalconsumers that apair of weird looking glasses with a camera on will bring benefits to their lives.Where Glass hybrid hardware just makesnormal people uneasy, the HTC-Valve love-in is taking inspiration fromthe (now Facebook-owned) Oculus Rift playbook of virtual reality headset reboots. Microsoft also recently outedanaugmented reality headset its developing, calledHoloLensalso intended for indoor and (mostly) gaming/entertainment-based usage.Bottom line: alienating your immediate family with a weird looking face computer is borderline acceptable, especially if youre doing it in your bedroom where your nearest and dearest are used to seeing you noodle around with gadgets.Sony also recently tipped its hand on a pair of smart spec its building. ThoseSmartEyeGlassspecs arecloser in design to Google Glass than the gaming VR headsets were seeing line up elsewhere, although they do superimpose information right over the users entire field of vision.