Swiss-basedsemanticsearch companyHulbee, which launched a consumer search engine in the U.S. this August, has closed a $9 million angel funding.The investors are not being disclosed beyond the firm saying one is a serial entrepreneur from Switzerland and the other is a business person from Canada.Hulbee is positioning its consumer search offering as a pro-privacy alternative to mainstream search engines like Google, with a pledge that unlike those guys it does not track users. So its competing with other search players in the pro-privacy space, such asDuckDuckGo.Although, unlike DDG, it has its own (semantic) search tech too  which its touting as another differentiator, along with a clean interface, and search results supplemented by a word cloud of related themes/content that allow users to narrow their search witha few considered clicks.It also has its own ad system, rather than bolting on a third party ad network. And again here itstaking a non-tracking approach. Ads on Hulbee are targeted based on the search query, according toCEO Andreas Wiebe, sotheres nogeotargeting or cumulative tracking. (Although users can specify their region in order to ensure more relevant search results, so it may have basic country data. And once you step off Hulbee and onto whatever website you were trying to find chances are their ad networks willstarttracking you, unless youre running an ad blocker)Unlike Googles offering, Hulbee doesnt fall back on surveillance, so theres no geotargeting. For Hulbee, the user is completely invisible, says Wiebe. Hulbee only focuses on the search query, and definitely doesnt know where its from or who entered it.The fundamental idea is to win over consumers who prioritize ownership of their data. We recognize that most consumers do not want to be tracked, he adds.Such a partial view of the user does not lend itself to highly targeted interest-based advertising  so Hulbee is also focusing on touting abrand-building proposition to advertisers (hence the Coca-Cola graphic in the word cloud, above right).Unlike traditional search engines, we dont focus on highly focused targeting, but instead specialize in mass informing of our visitors, including image, brand name, event advertising. Thus, we obviously will be interested, for example, in global companies launching a new brand or product, such as the film industry promoting the new movies or an event tie-in, saysWiebe.Were dealing with fairly sophisticated visitors. Although we do not track and dont know our visitors, we can say with certainty that our user is a person following modern trends in such areas as information security, privacy, etc. That user is concerned about their own privacy, weighing the aspects of their web activity and understanding the consequences and risks of certain actions.As well as aiming to appeal to individuals with concerns about their privacy, the search engine is beingtargeted at parents with concerns about the kind ofcontent their kids might be exposed toonline  given it hasa built-infilter for violent and pornographic content.Hulbee is not a startup, having spent 15 yearsworking on semantic search for the b2b space, and sellingenterprise-grade search and data analytics to European companies. But it is relatively new to the consumer space  launching a Swiss search engine, called Swisscows.ch, in June 2014 as a first step.In these post-Snowden tech times, itreckons theres a fresh opportunity to differentiate on privacy and security grounds vs dominant consumer search players (Google has a circa 90 per cent share of the search market in Europe). Andnotes, for instance, that its servers are located in Switzerland, so away from the prying eyes of the NSA  or indeed the European Union.The angel funding willspecifically be used toexpand its consumer search engine, according to Wiebe. We have a big mountain to climb with a lot of competitors, he admits. [Well use the] money to continue to building and develop our search engine for consumers.Afterlaunching its consumersearch engine in the U.S. this summer itadded 30 more markets in September, and is now available in 60 countries. Its not breaking out user data at this stage but says Swisscows.ch is processing more than five million queries per month, whileHulbee.com is processing more than eight million search queries monthly.The company isalso planning to step upits enterprise searchactivity, with the launch of an enterprise search product specificallytargeted at medium and small companies planned for this later month, and an enterprise search engine that aims to compete withMicrosoft, Google and HP slated for November.