Streaming video service Hulu is today launching its own tool for fans of GIFs, with the debut of its own GIF search engine powered by Tumblr. The new site, dubbed The Perfect GIF, isnt just a standard Tumblr blog, however, but more of customized Tumblr experience where you can search for and discover TV-related GIFs by tag, show, reaction or action involved. The idea behind the new project, it seems, is to help seed social media with high-quality GIFs based on Hulus own licensed and original content, then capitalize on those GIFs spread to market the Hulu brand to Tumblrs younger demographic.Yes, the Hulu GIFs are branded with the hashtag #Hulu as well as the name of the show and its networks logo, in most cases. That sort of mars the experience for GIF purists who will often apologize when theyve accidentally GIFd something that features anetwork logo or another overlay on top of the GIF theyve shared totheir blog.That being said, as someone with several Tumblr blogs and a decided lack of GIFing expertise, another source for GIFs from favorite shows is still a welcome addition, albeit something of a late one from a site thats been sitting on a potential GIF goldmine for years. Thenew site will now serve to complement other GIF resources like the popular (and recently funded) search engine Giphy, plus other easyGIF-making tools like those from YouTube or Imgur, for example.At launch, Hulus site features over 1,400 GIFs from dozens of its top shows across major networks including Fox, NBC, ABC, MTV, Bravo, FX, Showtime, and others, as well as those from classic shows like Cheers, Star Trek, Twin Peaks, The X-Files and more. You can search for GIFs by tag or show title, or you can click to filter the sites content by Show, Actions, or Reactions.Explains Hulu, the difference between its offering and those from competing GIF sites is itsbreadth combined withHulus access to licensed content, which makes for higher-quality GIFs. And it has organized those in a mobile-friendly experience that makes them easy to re-share.In addition to Tumblr, Hulus GIFs can also be posted to Twitter, Pinterest or shared via email. By doing so, youre agreeing to Hulus Terms of Use, however  but its fairly standard stuff, noting that you cant build your own content business of the back of HulusGIFs, nor can you profit from them by using them in things like mashups, wallpaper, desktop themes or other creations.Largely, the site is a promotional vehicle for Hulu and its content partners, but it still wouldnt be surprising to start seeing theseGIFs start making their way through Tumblr fandoms in the near future. Of course, if Hulu really wants to participate in the TV GIF phenomenon, it will have to keep its library regularly updated with new GIFs from the latest episodes of Hulushows.To what extent that will be the case, though, is unclear. (Weve asked, and will update if Hulu responds.)Hulu says it will add new GIFs to the site within days or weeks after new episodes air, depending on the content, and more GIFs are being added to the current selection of shows on a daily basis.