Meet Roslyn Scott and Dalton Scott, a mother and son team who just demoed a neatidea for making code more accessible, here at the Disrupt London 2015 hackathon.Their hack, called the Human Code Project,uses severalIBM Watson APIs, including its Natural Language Classifier, to power a search interface for translating JavaScript code terms into plain English.Its designed much like a language translation interface, so someone whos trying to understand what a piece of code is doingcansearch for a particularJavascript wordor phrase within that code to see a definition of what a term such asonclick might mean in that particular context. Theinterface returnsa percentage breakdown of how confident the system is in its definition for that term.During thehackathon they uploaded a training document to Watson, and created two classifier sets  one for definitions of code terms and one for phrases, explains Roslyn.What Watson is doing is its looking at my 200 definitions and its saying okay onclick  that probably means the user clicks an HTML element, she says.Heres the background view of what they builtAnd this is what the front endlookslike at this pointThere are so many [programming] languages. I just dont think Stackoverflow is as reliable as it could be, addsRoslyn. Its just about being able to methodically learn code. I believe that with Watson we can sort of standardize the answers, so we have consistency. And brevity.For businesses it will help the business side communicate with IT. For young people it will be a nice resource for them to learn how to code, she adds. This is a very easy way for people to get into code.Roslyn is a business consultant who also makes apps on the side. Her 15-year-old son Dalton  who did the coding for this hack  has been learning to code for two years, being inspired to start building stuff inPythonafter attending a Mozilla event.The pairare veteran hackathon attendees at this point  having been to some 50 or 60 over the past year-and-a-half.Theyreplanning to keep working on the project. I have to learn to code anyway, so when I find code Im just going to translate it into English  even if its just for myself, saysRoslyn.Merging the front and back end, getting other APIs workingand keeping training Watson are next on their devlist, and maybe also adding a way for users to add comments. Id like to have it so people could contribute, she adds.