Velostrata, an early stage hybrid cloud startup, emerged from stealth today announcinga $14 million Series A investment. The round was led by Norwest Venture Partnersand Greylock IL Partners.The company has a sophisticated hybrid cloud solution that decouples storage from compute resources, leaving the storage in place on-premises while running a virtual machine in the cloud.The advantage of this approach isthat you can leave the storage closer to demandwhile moving certain workloads to the cloud when your datacenter gets overloaded.Up until now, compute power and storage have had to be tightly coupled, but Velostrata is trying to change that, CEO and co-founder Issy Ben-Shaul explained.What the companyhas done is essentially created a plug-in for VMware vCenter admin console. The administrator uses the console in the usualfashion, but Velostrata has added anew item to the consoles menu a run in the cloud option.In a typical use case, the admin might decide that they need to shift resources to the cloud to reduce pressure on the datacenter. Upon selecting the Velostrata run in cloud option, a couple of things happen. First, thesoftware automatically shuts down the local machine. Thenitbegins streaming the VM to the cloud  in a similar manner to Netflixstreaming a video.This streaming process is part of the companys secret sauce, allowing it to move the VM much faster than before, which Ben-Shaul claimscould have taken weeks with a large workload. Once it has enough information in the cloud  much like the video starting before the whole thing is on your computer  the VM begins booting up and uses whatever data it needs to run the workload without taking the entire data repository up to the cloud.In case you were wondering how it does this, ituses algorithms and caching to limit the amount of data it needs.The solution is currently designed to work with Amazon Web Services, butthe company plans to add support for Microsoft Azure in a future release.Needless to say, allof this is ahighly technical, engineering-intensive undertaking, but its worth noting that the founding team that launched Velostrata did not just fall off the turnip truck. Ben-Shaul boasts two successful exits on hisresume includingActona, a WAN optimization company acquired by Cisco in 2004 for $82 millionandWanova, a desktop virtualization company, acquired by VMware in 2012for an undisclosed amount. His co-founderAdy Degan has similar credentials.Velostrata currently has 25 employees, the majority located in itsengineering center in Israel. There is also a business office in the U.S in San Jose, which it plans to expand using the funds from this round, particularly business development,sales and channel partner development .The product is currently in Beta with a dozen customers. Velostratahopes to make itgenerally available in the coming months.