Your team has spent many months perfecting your mobile app, so of course you want people to download it. You want to get your app high up in the app store charts. I get it. Totally. However, you (and a lot of companies) have gotten overly aggressive with how you go about suggesting that we download your app.You know what Im talking about. The interstitial suggestion to either download the app (in big letters!) or continue to the mobile site (in teeny tiny letters!).Its really fucking annoying and a Googler dropped a bomb today on just how annoying it might be.G+ found their "download our app" interstitial caused 69% of users to abandon, rather than dl app or continue on site http://t.co/hApPtMO4vg Jake Archibald (@jaffathecake) July 23, 2015Before you turn on your smart pants and make fun of Google+, check out the findings:Despite our intuition that we should remove the interstitial, we prefer to let data guide our decisions, so we set out to learn how the interstitial affected our users. Our analysis found that: 9% of the visits to our interstitial page resulted in the Get App button being pressed. (Note that some percentage of these users already have the app installed or may never follow through with the app store download.)
 69% of the visits abandoned our page. These users neither went to the app store nor continued to our mobile website.Yeah.Sixty-nine percentof people saw a link somewhere, cared enough to tap it, saw the interstitial and said hell no. Im pretty sure that Google+ isnt the only property seeing this on the web. I like using really well built mobile sites. They feel lighter than a native app and sometimes I just want to follow a link and get out of there.Sorry, site owners, maybe we just dont want your app. Google+ dropped theirs once they saw the above data. Being mobile doesnt just mean having a native app and driving people to it.It seems like mobile-first companies are learning that (albeit slowly and thanks to data like this), expanding their desktop/web offerings. Take a look at Instagram and Vine, both are adding more functionality into their website. Smart. Why lock up great content and lock out great eyeballs just because you want app installs?Googles Jennifer Gove talked about this so-called Door Slam last year at I/O:I see this page at least 10 times a day and it drives me nuts:The weird thing is, I already have their app! I just dont want to use it all of the time, especially when I tap a link on Twitter.How about you? What do you do when youre asked to download an app?