Hiring is the No. 1 thing founders waste their time on. Not because its not important. Bad hires can be toxic. But because its inefficient. Sourcing, interviewing and selecting candidates is tough enough, and most recruiting tools cant tell you where youre burning time or money.YetGreenhouse can. After its 450 customers, includingEvernote,Zenefits, and Venmo, told their investor how much its helping them hire, VCs came beating down Greenhouses door just seven months after it raised a $7.5 million Series A.Now, Greenhouse hasraised a $13.6 million Series B led by Benchmarkand joined by The Social+Capital Partnership, Felicis Ventures and Resolute Ventures. Greenhouse CEO and co-founder Daniel Chait tells me his company is not a unicorn yet, so its not worth $1 billion, but its now valued at 2.5X its last round.Recruiting is a competitive priority, Chait says.Everyone before us saw the issue as one of administration and tracking. Lots of data and lots of resumes to juggle, Chait tells me. But its not some chore. Good hiring is make or break for startups and critical to keeping costs low for big enterprises.Greenhouse grows companies recruiting efforts in three ways. It aggregates a companys job candidate sources like referrals, events, job boards, external agencies and social media into one hiring dashboard. From there, companies can A/B test their job listings and have their existing employees sent openings.For interviews, Greenhouse helps businesses structure their questions and how theyre askedso every candidate gets a fair playing field, and scoring answers is easy with its decision-making tools. Greenhouse makes it quick to compare candidates against each other and the desired role, as well asassess how the company is doing versus industry-hiring benchmarks.With the extra cash, though, Chait says the goal is making the platform smarter and more proactive.Greenhouse hadnt burned through the previous $7.5 million it had raised. Far from it, Chait tells me. Instead he says that it just seems that looking at the growth trajectory of hyper-growth SaaS companies that end up being super successful, they continue to raise money. Bringing Benchmarks Matt Cohler onto its board should aid Greenhouse, too.Chait tells me he has three big plans for the new $13.6 million:Its this last part that could give Greenhouse an edge on old tools. Chait says some are trying tomake it simple, pretty and modern. Some try to make it cheap. But Greenhouse wants to enable recruiting optimization.Greenhouse co-founder and CEO Daniel ChaitFor example, you might find candidates are routinely passing the first round of technical phone screenings but are failing face-to-face interviews. Well, a face-to-face is much more expensive. We can identify patterns of candidates that fail later rounds and suggest ways to filter them out at earlier stages. Greenhouse also wants to be able to tell companies, What questions are more predictive of successful hiring? or Which interviewers are doing the best job of selecting great candidates?While its already one-upped dusty recruiting software like Jobvite, theres a new class ofdata-driven tools like Lever focused on giving hiring managers the maximum information to make each decision. Lever raised $10 million in an October Series A to go after Greenhouse.And that perfectly validates Chaits fundraising thesis for Greenhouse. SaaS winners keep raising to super-charge growth once they find product market fit, rather than let competitors creep up.