IBM has made anacquisition to help grow its business in cloud services forgovernment and other public sector organizations  cloud services beingof the areas that IBM hopes will offset declines in its legacy business. The company hasacquiredOptevia, a UK-based consultancy that specialises in customer relationship management solutions, specifically cloud-based CRM delivered by way of software as a service, and even more specifically Microsoft Dynamics CRM implementations for public sector organizations.Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Optevias business reported record results last year, butabbreviated accounts filed earlier this year didnot disclose the companys revenues.Optevia will becomea part of IBMs Global Business Services division. While it will help IBM grow its public sector business in the UK, IBM also has bigger plans to scale up and market Optevias software  up to now focusing only on the UK market  to customers globally.By acquiring Optevia, IBM will be able to provide Public Sector clients and prospects with a range of unique, industry focused CRM based solutions, said Joanna Davinson, IBM Public Sector Leader  Europe, in a statement. This strategic acquisition will help strengthen IBM as a SaaS provider and Global Software Integrator.An IBM spokesperson says that IBM will use Optevia to expand its business around Microsofts Dynamics CRM in the public sector market, but it wont limit itself tothat platform alone.Wewill continue to develop and enhance our portfolio to include relevant vendor solutions in order to meet client demands, the spokesperson said.IBMs interest in acquiring talent to build cloud-based CRM solutions, specifically targeting the public sector, is part of wider developments at the company. Last year, itannounced a host of partnerships with third-party providers to provide more government cloud services. Its notable that IBM isnow making acquisitions to bringsome of thattalentin-house.Similarly, its interesting to see IBM ramping in CRM services. This is an area where companies like Salesforce and Oracle have dominated the market, and IBM has, again, forged partnerships with third parties like SugarCRM to provide solutions. Its also made a point of divesting some of its CRM business, such as when it sold its CRM and BPO business to Synnex in 2013 for $1.2 billion, but its also been the subject of some speculation, specifically around whether it might acquire Salesforce.Optevia itself wasa small,bootstrapped company, with three of its employees  Christopher Brooks, Andrew Bailes and Tim Vernon  listed as the sole shareholders in this UK Companies House filing. It was founded in 2001.Optevias primary focusuntil now has beenon UK emergency services, central government and local government offices, health authorities, and housing and social enterprises. These include ministries, councils, regulators, licensing and grant management organizations, transport authorities and social housing organizations. Itprovides a range of services for SaaS-CRM solutions, and its focus largely has been on integrating Microsoft solutions.IBM is not the only company tapping UK acquisitions in abid to build up consulting services for the public sector. In February, BlackBerry announced the acquisition of UK-based Encription, another government-focused consultancy, specifically around security solutions. Of the manyacquisitions made by IBM, this looks to be only the sixth from the UK.Updated with more comment from IBM.