IDG Ventures, an early-stage venture firm that was among the first VCoutfits to plant its flag in San Francisco instead ofSilicon Valley, has raised $120 million for its third and newest fund, according to cofounders Phil Sanderson and Alex Rosen.The two longtime VCs came together with a third partner, Pat Kenealy, in 2008; their previous fund closed with $100 million.IDG Ventures is an interesting outfit in a number of ways. Its kind of a corporate fund, but not really. To wit, it counts IDG  the publishing, research, and conference giant as an investor, butIDG isnt its sole or even majority investor. Even still,the venture outfit is able to use IDGsplatform as a giant hook for entrepreneurs looking to entertheir respective markets faster.For example, startinglast year, IDG Ventures began promisingconsumer-facing startups $1 million in targeted marketing spend to spread across IDGs hundreds of online properties. It meanwhile began promising to deliver leads to enterprise startups, including by using IDG to develop custom ad units that IDG then syndicates out across the web.IDG Ventures is also a bit of an anomaly in its interests. Whereas many investors have begun to shun mobile games as one-hit wonders and ad tech startups as not differentiated enough, the venture firm still counts them among its five broad target areas.Maybe its no wonder. IDG Ventures was the lead investor in the mobile social game developer Funzio, which sold in 2012 to the Japanese internet company Gree for $210millionin cash. It was also a seed and Series A investor in Vidible, which sold software that helped publishers manage their syndicated video business. Vidiblewas acquiredfor undisclosed terms late last year by TechCrunch corporate overlordAOL.In another unique twist,IDG Venture is part of a global network of independent venture funds that share an investor in IDG.That can be a tad confusing. Theres IDG Capital Partners in China, and IDG Ventures in India, and two smaller independent outfits in Korea (IDG Korea) and Vietnam (IDG Ventures Vietnam).Then again, those far-flungfriends are nice to have, says Sanderson. Each outfit talks with theothers in an effort to helptheir portfolio companies establish a more global footprint. Sandersonalso says IDGhas co-invested alongside itssimilarly named peers at least half a dozen times.