Netflix recently revealed that it has plans to launch in Singapore next year, but already a number of ambitious video streaming services have sprouted up in Southeast Asia  a region that is home to more than 500 million people aiming to dethrone the U.S. companybefore it even arrives.One such upstart is iFlix, a service available in Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand, which is currently talking to investors with a view to raising up to $150 million in fresh funding tofuel a major global expansion. Ambitious indeed.A pitch deck to investors dated November 2015, obtainedby TechCrunch, states that iFlix  which is ownedco-founded by Malaysia-based group Catcha Groupand raised $30 million in April  is looking to expand actively into other ASEAN markets aswell as specific high-potential areas outside of ASEAN.iFlix declined to comment when we contacted itabout these plans.More specifically, the companyplans tospend the money expanding its presence in Southeast Asia and moving into new markets in the wider Asian continent, the Middle East, Africa, and CIS (Eastern Europe). Further, iFlixclaims it is in ongoing distribution agreement dialogue withoperators acrossAsia, the Middle East, and Africa. The company has used telecom partnerships to gain reach in its existing markets, to date, so that would represent a continuation of that strategy.All in all, itsa hugely ambitious plan for a servicethat has only been commercially available for five months.So how is iFlix, which is chiefly rivaled by Singtel-backed HOOQ,doing so far?Its hard to say.iFlix recently proclaimed that it crossed one million members  but TechCrunch understands that by members the company is actually referring to activations. I.e. anyone who has ever registered on the service.Thats a fairly misleading metric given that iFlix  like HOOQ  is offering users month-long free trials of its service before they have to pay. iFlixhasnt said how many of those million-plus registrations haveconverted to actual paying users but, given that subscription-based models are still in their early days in Southeast Asia (where people are not used to paying for digital goods), we can imagine that the number is not amazing.[Update: iFlix doesnt rely on credit cards to enable paying users. It offers carrier billing for payment, and recently struck a deal with Telecom Malaysia, which is offeringiFlixs servicefree for a year to itsbroadband customers. iFlix declined to disclose what happens to these customers once the 12-month deal lapses.)Somemetricsfromthe deck:Since its launch in June 2015, iflix has been growing at ~9kuser subscriptions per day, surpassing 665k activatedaccounts as of end-OctoberOverall average usage of ~1.5 hours / active viewer / dayOver 18k hours of content in each market(Note, again, that activated accounts doesnt mean paying users since it just countsuser registrations.)Metrics aside, iFlix has some impressive backers.Catcha is a pretty prolific investor, much like a Southeast Asia-made Rocket Internet. It has a tendency to build companies quickly, trumpeting impressive growth stats to help raise funding  just like iFlix, in this case  and push them to list publicly earlier than most others. Catcha did score a major win last month when News Corp agreed to buy iProperty, one of its portfolio, for $534 million  a record exit for Southeast Asia  and itll be interesting to see how that money is used.Other iFlix backers include U.S.-basedEvolution Media Capital,the investment arm of Creative Artists Agency, which co-owns the company alongside Catcha. Both organizations invested in iFlixs $30 million funding round in addition to PLDT, the Philippines telecom firm that has close ties with Rocket Internet. In addition, PLDT has a $20 million subscription contract with iFlix, according to the investor pitch deck.(The deck also states that iFlix raised a $10 million seed round, which, until now, went unreported in media.)Raising $150 million  which, it should be pointed out, appears to bethe ceiling for this round which could close at a lower number  is no easy task. Rocket Internets Southeast Asia-based companies, which are the best-backed in the region, each took years of development until they began swallowing such large funding checks, so it remains to be seen whether iFlix can close such a large and ambitious round.Yet, the fact that it is trying  while Sony and Warner-backed HOOQ continues to expand its presence in Asia and hire aggressively shows that Netflix wont walk into Southeast Asia, and beyond, unopposed. But the biggerquestion is whether new players, who offer free trials in emerging markets where piracy leads subscriptions, can actually make money beyond simplyraising it from investors.So, sit back, grab your popcorn and prepare forThe Streaming War Of 2016: Southeast Asia Edition.