Fewthingsin life are certain. Death and taxes maketwo.Other contenders for immoveable universal principles might include the inevitability that any Ikea flat-pack furniture you buy will be revealed to be missinga crucial piece/contain a large, unsightly crack onceyouve hauled it home, spent your Sunday clearing the spare room toaccommodate it and unboxed 90 percent of the pieces.Accumulating domestic clutter, the natural entropy of homeorder  which drove you to Ikea to buy another storage unit in the first place  might well be another. Couple-based visitsto Ikea descending into full-on domestic warfare/divorce are perhaps a third.And now, in the current App-ozoic digital era, we can addemoji to the list of life inexorables. Aka the stickers that have spread through socialplatforms like a particularly virulent strain of influenza.Blend the latter two contenders and the formula dishesupIkeas new keyboard app for iOS and Android, Ikea Emoticons, with as much inevitability as a trip to Ikea being bookended by a plate of steaming meatballs and some lingonberry jam.What Ikea hasactually created here is a set of what are (mostly) emoji, with a couple of actual emoticons thrown in for good measure, to humanize all thevirtual furniture  and at least keep up the pretense that its interested in helping mobile usersbetter express theirfeelings.(Well let them off for getting their emo-clature in a twist. They are Swedish, after all, so mostly we should be thankful they didntcall the app Uttryckssymboler. Or Lack Lingo. Or something.)Instead of having to remember Ikeas twee own brand names for thestuff it sells, like Lack and Klippan and Billy and, er, meatballs, users of the appcan communicate theirfurniture-based desiresto each other via emoji instead. How cute! How lovely! How [insert slightly-creepy-looking-heart-with-outstretched-hands emoji]! (Although, strangely enough, Ikea appears to have failed to include a Lack in its emojicollection. But you will find Billy. And Lampan. AndPong. And a picture of an Allen Key. And did I mention meatballs?)Ikea reckons the keyboardwill be useful when couples need to tell each other where at home they left their keys. Or not to be so untidy with all that clutter they bought from Ikea, but ya know tactfully, without causing a big ol barney. Or something. Domestic bliss presumably leads to more furniture purchases.While social messaging platformLine has turned its kawaii digital mascots into real-world plush toys and other merch, Ikea is turning its real-world products into cutesy stickers. Asbranding plays go, its spectacularly blatant. Encouraging people to transmutetheir communications out of the lexis and into branded iconsthat make real-world products instantly recognizable and strangely familiar really just needs a video clipof someone sitting in a high-backed chair stroking a cat to feel completeThere, muchbetter.You can check out Ikea Netherlands promo video for the app below.Theappjoins a raft of new keyboards on iOS  possible since Apple opened up system-wide keyboards to third parties last fall. Android, meanwhile, has always sanctioned alternativekeyboards.