Editors note:Joe Riley is managing member of the healthcare investment firm Psilos,investors in growth stage digital healthcare.He currently serves on the boards of directors of Care Management Technologies, Caregiver Services, HealthEdge Software and OmniGuide.In2015, theconsumerwill really be in the drivers seat, and this is especially true in thehealthcareworld.The AffordableCareAct (ACA), better known as Obamacare, is here to stay. Nowhealthinsurers today have little choice but to dramatically revise their 50-year old business models that focused on employer-sponsored group products and focus on the consumerswho have so much power going forward.It wont be easy for the insurers. They arent well-liked byconsumers. In Forresters 2014CustomerExperience Index,health insurers earned a rating of poor, which was lower than that of airlines and cable companies.So what should they do? It is a paradox, but in2015, healthinsurers will need to start behaving like auto insurers donow.I love GEICO. Using the gecko as a brand image was outstanding, but then getting Ickey Woods some cold cuts  that was even better. Humor sells. GEICO was the among the first to address theconsumer, but today most auto insurers now recognize the power of theconsumer, and have tailored core operations to beconsumer-focused.These businesses embrace branding and marketing, price transparency, call center performance metrics, roadside claim adjudication and accelerated claim payments, all designed to drivecustomerloyalty and satisfaction for a product everyone hopes theyll never have to use. Sounds like a good model forhealthinsurers to follow, right?Healthinsurers have to think likeconsumers do in2015, and this focus on theconsumeris a seismic strategic shift. Fortunately for investors like me, such change drives enormous investment opportunity.Immediately after the ACA was passed in 2010, insurers reacted quickly to the emerging opportunity for accountablecareorganizations (ACOs), making significant investments to get access to clinical data and get closer to providers, with purchases of companies like Medicity and Axolotl.I predict a similar surge in acquisitions in2015as the insurers add technologies, products and services that deliver a differentiated consumerexperience on price, quality and service. Significant investment will be required throughout thehealthinsurers value chains, from research to product development, to operations and to marketing and sales.Valuations will rise, as well; just as we continue to see valuations of venture-backed companies in other industries soar (Uber raising capital at $40 billion), its easy to foresee billion-dollar valuations for innovativehealthtechnology companies.I expect to see heavy emphasis in2015on technology solutions in the following areas:Its not hard to imagine a scenario where clever Super Bowl commercials in the coming years are no longer about GEICOs lizard and Flo from Progressive, but rather are delivered by the likes of Aetna, United and Humana.However,healthinsurers will have to put technological infrastructure in place to service their customers in the new world ofconsumerhealthinsurance if they want to survive.