
Bob Muglia is the CEO of Snowflake Computing.Government policy andtechnologyusually coexist in harmony. But occasionally, they get into a brawl. When this happens, policy may win a battle or two, but, ultimately,technologyalwayswins. It simply isnt a fair fight.Technologymoves too fast for policy to keep up.Take for example the infamous Microsoftversus the Department of Justice antitrust case. As one of the 12 Microsoft executives who was skewered on the witness stand by David Boies, I lived through this nightmare firsthand. The DOJ unambiguously won the legal battle. But policy didnt win the war. While the DOJ certainly weakened Microsoft, what happened instead istechnology, in particular the iPhone, broke the monopoly and now Microsoft is hopelessly behind in mobile computing.Which brings us to the current war raging betweentechnologyand government policy.Applehas used encryptiontechnologyto protect user data on the iPhone. But they left a crack in the armor, and theFBIwants to create policy to jump through that tiny crack and read what is on Syed Farooks phone.What this tells us is that encryption works. If theFBIor NSA could break strong encryption, then they would remove the memory chips from Farooks iPhone, copy the data and run it through a cloud of government computers to read the files. But they cant. Encryption works.So instead, theFBIhas used the All Writs Act law from 1789 to convince a federal judge to forceAppleto write a special version of iOS to unlock the iPhone of a bad guy in 2016. If that sounds unlikely, well, it just might work.If this policywinsin court and theFBIforcesAppleto break open Farooks phone, it wont stop there.Applewill begin living the nightmare of hundreds of state and federal judges demanding exactly the same thing. And thats just the beginning; governments around the world will join in with their demands.Applewill be forced to unlock phones from Beijing to Moscow, phones of both bad guys and protesters fighting repressive regimes.When policywinsa round againsttechnology, it often runs amok.Fortunately, this wont be the last round.Applehas already signaled its intent to plug the crack they left in todays iPhone. So very soon, perhaps even later this year,Applewill ship a phone with encryption that even they cant break. Then no government on earth will be able to openthose phones.Maybe the battle will continue. But for policy to win the next round, it will need to orderAppleand the othertechnologyproviders using encryption to change their products so the government can look inside. This is the so-called backdoor, and this is dangerous ground for policy makers.Creating this backdoor requires changes to law  and that means Congress. In a world obsessed with what Snowden revealed and with a public angry enough to possibly elect Donald Trump, do you think Congress will write a new law to create a backdoor for the government to snoop wherever it wants?No chance.Technologywill win, hands down.So does that mean the game is over? That allApplehas to do is move forward and create their iPhone fortress? Well, maybe not. Becausetechnologycontinues to march forward.It turns out thattechnologywill almost certainly break todays approach to encrypting data that is sent over the Internet. A completely differenttechnologycalledquantum computingis emerging from the lab, with early products being built now. Quantum computing is completely different from todays digital computers. Instead of calculations using 1s and 0s, quantum computers use something called a qubit, which can represent many values at the same time.What this means is that some problems that are virtually impossible to solve using todays digital computers are childs play for the quantum computer oftomorrow. Of particular interest is the asymmetric encryption approach that is used to secure HTTPS and, thus, just about everything confidential that is sent over the Internet. These keys are practically unbreakable using digital computers. But for a powerful quantum computer, they will be a piece of cake.We are still a long way from a quantum computer that can pick the lock on encryption keys. Quantum computing today is roughly as advanced as digital computing was in 1971 when Intel created the first microprocessor. Buttechnologymoves faster in 2016 than it did in the 1970s.In 20 years, or maybe even as few as 10, quantum computers may exist that can look inside all of todays digital communications. Like most newtechnology, quantum computing will be expensive and complex at first, so it wont be available to everyone. But the NSA andFBIwont be deterred, and they will be first in line to buy a quantum computer. This is a pretty scary scenario, but technology does not play favorites. Technical advancements become available to anyone with the will and means to acquire them.Like alltechnology, eventually quantum computing will get cheaper and simpler. Well all probably carry a quantum computer in our pocket someday. And while quantum computing may someday break todays encryption keys, something calledquantum cryptographypromises an approach to encryption that cannot be foiled by a quantum computer. So the pendulum will swing back and theFBIwill be frustrated yet again.The battle never ends. But in the end,technologyalwayswins.