In late August, a report out of Consumer Reportssaid thattheTesla Model S P85D, anall-wheel-drive electric sedan that also happens to be themost expensivemodel of the car, performed better in our tests than any other car ever has, earning a perfect road-test score.We said at the time that the review was something you dont see every day. But more shockingly, Consumer Reports has just assignedTeslas Model Sa worse-than-average rating in a new, annual report about the predicted reliability of new vehicles.Numerousoutlets, including the L.A. Times, began reportingthe bad news earlier. Shares of 12-year-old Tesla, which has a $26.5 billion market cap,have been in a nosedive since, falling 10.3 percent so far today.According to Consumer Reports, in interviews with more than 1,400 Model S owners, an array of detailed and complicated maladies was brought to the outlets attention.The main problems, says the reports authors, involve the drivetrain; power equipment; charging equipment; its giant iPad-like center console; and body and sunroof squeaks, rattles and leaks.Specific areas that scored worse on the 2015 model, compared with last years model, says Consumer Reports, are itsclimate control, steering, and suspension systems.Combined, theissues were enough to knock the car down from last years average reliability prediction. It also means the Model S cant receiveConsumer Reports widely coveted recommended designation. (To be recommended, says the organization, a vehicle has to meet stringent testing, reliability, and safety standards, including having average or better predicted reliability.)Asked forcomment, a Tesla spokesperson emailed us the following statement: Consumer Reports also found that customers rate Tesla service and loyalty as the best in the world. Close communication with our customers enables Tesla to receive input, proactively address issues, and quickly fix problems. Over-the-air software updates allow Tesla to diagnose and fix most bugs without the need to come in for service. In instances when hardware needs to be fixed, we strive to make it painless.Indeed, Consumer Reports acknowledges that Tesla is working hard to address problems as they develop. As it states in its new report:Despite the problems, our data show that Tesla owner satisfaction is still very high: Ninety-seven percent of owners said they would definitely buy their car again. It appears that Tesla has been responsive to replacing faulty motors, differentials, brakes, and infotainment systems, all with a minimum of fuss to owners. . .For its early adopters, Tesla has made a practice of overdelivering on service problems under the factory warranty.As for whether this new report could have a lingering impact for Tesla, Max Zanan, a longtime New York-based automotive retail expert, says he doubts it highly.Zanan points to the car brand rated the most predictable by Consumer Reports:Buick. If you go to any Buick dealership on earth, you can buy a car on the spot because people arent interested in boring cars like Buick, he says.Zanan also notes the rise Korean automaker of Kia and Hyundai, which respectivelyfinished sixth and ninthin Consumer Reports reliability ratings. (Kia even beat Honda, and by a significant margin, says the outlet.)In the 90s, Kia and Hyundai had poor reliability ratings, too he says. With time, they improved their processes and are now able to build very reliable cars with which consumers are very happy.Even more immediately, Tesla neednt worry about blowback from the report, in Zanans view.Purchasing decisions arent guided by Consumer Reports, he says.Theyre guided by feel of the car, marketing, and word of mouth.