Theres much being made about the seemingly swift decline in Swiss watch sales. CultOfMac, as is their wont, is pointing to Apple Watch sales while still others are moaning about millennials who refuse to buy a $6,000 James Bond watch. So whats really happening?Watch exports fell 8.5 percent in the last three months, partially due to a slowdown in Asian luxury sales as well as a surge in the price of the Swiss franc. But the primary slowdown seems to be in the low end  meaning the $200-$500 mark  even as Switzerland is trying desperately to convince younger people that a $6,000 watch is a great deal.So whats happening? Smartwatches are killing the low end. I predicted this almost ayear agowhen I wrote about how the watch industry could save itself. In short, cheap watches are uninteresting in the face of cheap consumer electronics and just as the phone has replaced the watch for many older folks, the smartwatch will replace the phone for millennials.Whats next for the industry? Massive consolidation and a downturn as bad as the quartz crisis. This is the end for many smaller manufacturers, including the OEMs who provide garbage watches for Calvin Klein, Fossil and Burberry. Cheaper manufacturers with a history  Timex, Citizen and Seiko primarily  will survive because there will always be a market for an inexpensive timepiece that gets the job done. But everyone else is toast. The smartwatch  not just the Apple Watch  is eating most of the low end pie.What can the Swiss watch groups do? Not much, sadly. Generally, they need to offer a value proposition beyond the original watch proposition which was, in short, This watch will tell the time well. While many of us dont remember the heady days when Timex was actually competing with Rolex in the 1950s, once upon a time all watch brands were approximately equal. The vision of the superior Swiss watch is as artificial as Santa Claus and Mothers Day but it is a powerful message. However, years ago, all watch companies were in deep competition with each other over timekeeping.Now, 60years later, watch companies have little else to offer in terms of marketing message. Swiss watches, were told, are intrinsically better. They arent, really, simply because many arent made with the care that goes into even the lowest end electronic device. In fact, at this point most affordable watches are mass-produced junk. These are the watches that will disappear.But a subset of the high-end watches  mostly still made by Swiss and German makers  are still intrinsically important as works of art and science and well worth the investment. But how do you tell that to someone who wants an Apple Watch in aluminum with an orange band but will settle for no watch at all?Anecdotally many of us still say that the Apple Watch is rarely seen in the wild but this doesnt mean they arent selling. There arent many watches in the wild at all these days and most of us arent watch hounds who notice exactly what people are wearing from across the room. But the smartwatches are out there. Apple has probably sold about 6 million of these things and they will sell more. Android devices are floating around and Ive seen more Samsung watches in New York than Omegas. Things are changing.Ultimately the Swiss watch industry is in a downturn because it has long been full of benighted rich people with no vision for the future. The great manufacturers sat on their hands for the past decade, raising prices and aiming their unattainable marketing message at the fashion world. Now theyre screwed.Years later they have to convince an entire generation that they alienated with resolute intensity to buy their wares. Its going to suck for them, and thats really whats causing this messy downturn but at least now they can try to understand the problem and fix the cause.