Whenyesterday, thekeyboard developer Swiftkey was reported to beacquired by Microsoft for $250 million  about 10 times what it raised from investors  it seemed just another success in a stringfor Index Ventures, the venture firm with offices in San Francisco, London, and Geneva.Indeed, the now 20-year-old venture firm has had a very good run of things, with eight companies in its portfolio going public over the last two years, including Pure Storage, King, Just Eat and Hortonworks, while many other companies have grown considerably since the firmfirst wrote them a check, including BlaBlaCar, Funding Circle, Deliveroo, Slack and Sonos.No wonder Indexhas just closed itseighth early-stage venture firm, a $550 million pool that it plans to invest in the U.S. and Europe in equal parts. (The firmhad raised around the same amount for its seventh early-stage fund, closed in 2014.)Indexwhose U.S. partners include firm cofounder Danny Rimer, former Cisco chief strategy officerMike Volpi, and former Dropbox head of product Ilya Fushmanhas also promoted to partner Shadul Shah. Shah hadjoined the firm from Summit Partners in 2008 as an associate.We spokeearlier this week with Volpi and Shah about the new fund. We also talked about how theyconcurrently manage thefirms $706 million growth fund, closed in April of last year;how closely the team will be working with former Twitter CEO Dick Costolo, who joined Index as a venture partner earlier this month;and where theyll be shopping in 2016. Our chat has been edited for length.TC: Mike, inthe U.S., where you opened an office in 2011, youve now gone from two partners  youand Danny  tofour, plus a venture partner. How involved will Dick Costolo be, exactly?MV: Yes, we have quite a bit more manpower here in the U.S.Dick is roughly half time with us and half time with the fitness startup that hes incubating in our offices. Hell be sponsoring investments, taking board seatsdoing the full gig at Index, but half the time.TC: Shardul, youve been focused on enterprise investments for the firm.SS: Yes, for the lastthree years, Ive been focused on enterprise and within that, security and developer services. I think well continue to double down on those themes, as well as extend into [related] themes.TC: You also raised a giant growth fund last year.How much overlap is there with your earlier-stage efforts?MV: When were excited about [a startup in our] venture portfolio, well double down on the growth fund, but the investments are largely de novo. Id say about 20 percent of the companies [were also previously backed by Index as early-stage companies].TC: And is anyone focusing on growth in particular? Do you have any separate team members?MV: No, each of us is investing in everything from pre Series A to growth investments. We orient around themes first and stages second.TC: You say that 7 out of 10 of your investments are seed or pre-Series A bets, and that you look for 20 to 25 percent ownership with those checks.MV: Its typically before there are any proof points about scalability. Once a company has demonstrated that a product or service works and that theres a path to accelerating its growth, [we start thinking about] Series C and D rounds.TC: You wouldnt seem to have a lot of bandwidth for those later investments.MV: Thats been one of our challenges, a lot coming our way and not sufficient bandwidth to cover it. But Index isnt just partners. We have a strong and up-and-coming team of associates and principals who help us look at things. Growth-stage companies tend to have much more data to sift through, and thats where our team really helps us in doing analytics.TC: Youve invested in all kinds of things. What are you tracking for 2016? Mike, I know you were personally interested in bitcoin and had bought some in late 2013.MV: Weve made two investments, in Xapo and Bitpay, that were helping along.Bitcoin has gone through a very interesting stage over the last 12 months, where the currency itself went up, then down, then way up again. Now theres this debate about the length of the blockchain. We still believe in it, but its going to be a long journey and were generally coaching [our entrepreneurs] to takealong-term view and dont spend a lot of money and wait for things to settle out.TC: Shardul, what about AI and VR and all the other things that people are now talking about?SS: AIis certainlyvery interesting. The amount of compute in the lastfive years and data processing has grown such that Google, DeepMind and others can provide responses much more quickly based on things like AI. Were paying attention to applications of AI in areas like messaging, first-party applications andcompanies that are formed around the ecosystem of Slack [whose new, $80 million venture fundis backed partly by Index].TC: What do you make of the public markets and this startling lack of IPOs?MV: Its a tricky time to go public, but I wouldnt say its wholly unreceptive. [The workplace collaboration company] Atlassian staged a very successful IPOin December.TC: You arent worried about valuations getting squeezed?MV: From the perspective of a VC, its adouble-edged sword. For our portfolio, itsnot great when valuations go down, but it also givesus an opportunity to invest and get better deals. Its partofthe natural course of the business were in, so it hurts us and it creates opportunities.Featured above: Asnapshot of Index Ventures San Francisco office.