India is currently undergoing an e-commerce boom  at least in terms of investment. The latest startup to pull in bags of investor cash is Craftsvilla, an e-commerce site for ethnic products that is probably comparable to Etsy if you seek Western points of reference.Craftsvilla just announced its $18 million Series B funding round, which was led by Sequoia Capital and included participation fromNexus VenturePartners, Lightspeed Venture Partners and Global Founders Capital. Avaluation was not disclosed.The Mumbai-based company was founded in 2011 by CEO Manoj Gupta, who  then a VC with Nexus, which invested in retail powerhouse Snapdeal  observed the rise of online commerce and decided to jump into the space himself as an entrepreneur.Thethesis was that India isso rich in culture and diversity and thereare so many unique products across the country, [but] a serious attempt to bring that online ona single platform hadnever been done, Gupta told TechCrunch in an interview.Craftsvilla is comparable to Etsy, but Etsy it is not. Rather than focusing on handmade products like the U.S. firm, Gupta said Craftsvilla is about showcasing ethnic merchandise, such assaris, handicraft, jewelry, spiritual products, or music instruments.Were aiming topresent ethnic merchandise in a new way, explained Gupta. Were saying ethnic is cool.'Craftsvilla is closing in on 2 million products from nearly 12,000 merchants, andGupta said the numbers havegrown organically without spending on marketing.Interestingly, 95 percent of customers are based within India, while a whopping 90 percent are female. Logistics and additional costs make international sales trickier, Gupta explained, but the company recently passed the cost of overseas delivery to merchants  who can factor it into pricing  which hebelieves will help.That said, Craftsvilla isnt targeting a global audience, India is the primarily focus. Gupta does, however, plan to expand the business into countries in Southeast Asia, where it will maintain itsfocus on selling local, cultural products to domesticconsumers. To that end, the company has begun tests in Malaysia  but country expansions arent likely to happen until next year. (Gupta told us that he is also open to acquisitions to enter new markets.)The funding will go towards marketing the site to mainstream consumers in India, advancing the companys tech and also hiring. Craftsvilla has a team of 50 based in Mumbai. Gupta told usthat it has kept margins low and is close to profitability thanks to its thrift  thats in stark contrast toIndias most prominent internet startups,which are burning through capital.Right now, Craftsvilla has $4-5 million GMV per month, but it is aiming to increase that figure to $20 million by the end of the year.It is early days, but Gupta said he believes that Craftsvilla has the potential to grow beyond Asia and into other parts of the world, maintaining a local focus all the while. He isnt too concerned that Etsy has taken that mantle because he sees fundamental differences between the two.Ourvision is very big, we want to be a $10 billion valued company and makea big impact in the ethnic space we want to be the destination for anything ethnic, he explained. Etsy is about handmade but it loses a lot inthe ethnic culture area. [Our products] dont necessarily need to be handcrafted, but [they are] ethnic in nature.Gupta is already thinking abouta future round in the region of $100 million to push Craftsvilla tothe next level. Though, he said, thats in the back of his mind and he isnt yet actively raising.