If you want proof that Android is the operating system of emerging markets, look no further than Indus OS. Thecompany, formerly known asFirstouch,is tweaking the Google-run operating systemto the unique demands and culture of India. And its raised $5 million in fresh funding to push on with its lofty target of reachingone billion emerging market users.This Series A round was led byOmidyar Network, the philanthropic venture capital firm startedby eBay founder Pierre Omidyar and his wife Pam, and it follows smaller investments from India-based angel investors.In its bid to make Android friendly to non-smartphone users in rural India,Firstouch, as the company was known prior to today, placessignificant focus on the user interface andlanguage support, but it goes beyond that. The genesis of the company is that smartphone penetration has stagnated in India despite the cost of a device falling to below $30. Indus OS believes that one of the primary problems is complexity, and it is retooling Android accordingly to help hundreds of millions of Indians to get online through a smartphone.The company, which said it has spent more than three years researching consumer attitudes to mobile devices and possible technology solutions, has a number of devices in-market now thanks to a partnership with Indian phone maker Micromax  which bundled its software on selected devices last year  but it is aiming to do a lot more.Werefiguring out what we need to do to provide people with their first internet device,Rakesh Deshmukh, Indus OS CEO and one of the trio of IIT-Mumbai graduates who founded the company, explained to TechCrunch in a phone interview.The language options [in India] arevery limited [and] theres nocompany developing solutions for these consumers. Its abig market and big problem, he added.Hindi and English are Indias official languages, but 22 others are officially recognized. The top four alternatives are estimated to be spoken by at least 10 million people each. So it stands to reason that a device that just caters to a few of that selection is going to have a somewhat limited appeal across the whole of India.Indus OS covers 12 languages right now. The team is working to add more, but it has also completed a notable tie-in withDepartment of Electronic and Information Technology (DeitY) which will see it introducetext-to-speech technology forregional languages, a feature thatwill bebaked into its operating system.Deshmukh said he believes that, with the help of new OEM partners in the $200 handset space that it targets, this DeitY partnership couldboost the companys reach to tier-two and tier-three cities and push Indus OS closer to its goal of bringing300 million Indian consumers online overthe next five years.Design is another major element to what the company is developing. More specifically, it is trying to bridge the gap between the modern smartphone and thegamut of customization options availavle, and the more limitedbut straightforward experience of dumb cellphones.People dont know how to operate a smartphone and have very limited understanding of technology, saidDeshmukh, citing multiple field surveys and sessions with Indians in rural areas. Wewant a simple interface to help people shift from a feature phone to a smartphone easily. We found, for example, that many are more comfortable with hard keys, and color-coding such as greenand red for calls.Other tweaks aimed to bridging cultural and use case gaps includea nifty real-time translation tool which enables users to simply swipe to translate text from one language into another. The feature works when both sending and receiving messages.Then theres the companys app store  App Bazaar  which doesnt require an email address or credit card to active an account. That might sound trivial in Western markets, but its a serious barrier in India and other parts of the emerging world.Right now, App Bazaar has 15,000 apps  which is far fewer than the millions in the Google Play Store  butDeshmukh said 45 of the top 100 are present and the company intends to stock all 100 (and more) within this year.The critical part of the companys mission is partnerships because, as a software maker, it isnt selling hardware or operating a consumer brand. (Although it intends to be more visible so that people will pick Indus OS-powered devices when they shop for a phone). Its software is installedon 20 devices from Micromax  which have racked up over two millions sales these past six months  but it intends to broaden out and cut deals with at least two more partners  who pay to license the software  and increase its community to 20 million devices in market this year.It also working to increase its team of 70 to 200, with one project on the horizon being an Android ROM. (It is currently advertising for nine roles, including developer positions and a CFO, on its website.) That ROM could be installed on other (more expensive) Android devices to enable the company to grow its userbase beyond entry-level and budget devices.Then theres international expansion, too.Indus OS moved into Bangladesh last year, andDeshmukh told us that hed like to add another overseas market to that list before the end of 2016. He said the company will spend a few months looking into which expansion destination it might hit next.Deshmukh is optimistic of the potential of a fuller international rollout  perhaps into Africa, Southeast Asia and beyond  once Indus OS has the basics of its platform nailed down and proven at scale in India. But, he added, such a move would require additionalfundraising and would happen further down the line.