If youve been procrastinating about getting a tattoo heresa neat little AR app, called InkHunter, thats aimingto help you decide what and whereto ink without having to regret that snarlingwolf facial tatafter the fact.The app includes a selection of designs by differenttattoo artists that you can try out virtually via the automagic of smartphone-powered augmented reality placing pixels on your flesh in real-time.You can alsoupload your own sketches to the app to see whether your pen skills are sharp enough to merit leavinga permanent markon your person.In a neattouch, the app asksyou to put a little ink on your skin  think of that as part of the try before you buyprocess  because you need to draw a flat-lined emoji-style face (called Square Smile) on your person in the place where youre considering the real deal.Then the AR tech uses your phones camera, combined withyourthree ink marks, to position and overlay what might be your future tattoo. So youre peeking through your smartphone screen at analternative tattooed you. Which is about as useful as AR gets right now. (And, it must be said, a lot more useful than most VR content at this nascent stage)InkHunter lets yousnap a photo of your AR tat too, for future ref or for sharing with your friends for a second opinion. Thisphoto featureincludes a few filters for lightly editing shots  including a blur effect (pictured above) which presumably mimics what your tattoomight look like after some years, i.e. when the lines arent quite so crisply defined. And your rationalfor getting that scorpionstamped on your shoulder mayno longer be quiteso clearBuilt by a team of software engineers based in the Ukraine, InkHunter started life as an idea born out of a 48 hour hackathon back in July 2014. Two of the original team decided to continue with the project after that, rewriting, resdesigning and launched an MVP as an iOS app around two weeks ago  so, caveat, it is still a little rough round the edges. And doesnt always position your potential tat quite where youd want it to go. But hey, this is only digital ink so it doesnt really matter if things goa little wonky.Dev priorities includeworking on the AR algorithm to improve performance,says CTOPavlo Razumovskyi. Last release we managed to adapt our algorithm to awry [inked on square] smiles, next step adapt it to different conditions: darkness, shadow, veins and so on. We are working not only on improving detection, but also accuracy and stability of tattoo position on skin.He says the team also intends to work on being able to overlay color tattoos. At present it only supports black and white. Other features in the pipeline include an adaptive custom sketch uploader, the ability to remove photos/sketches from the gallery (currently you cant so  another caveat any savedvirtual tattoo try-ons are temporarily indelible ), and navigation and search features for the tattoo gallery.The app is free to download and use, but nudges usersto buy tattoo artists designs if they tryone and savea snap of it. The plan for monetization isto take a cut on any sales, although the future focus is likely to be more on bookings of specific tattoo artists, according Razumovskyi, rather than selling designs as he says artists generally prefer to ink their own designs.We are involving tattoo artists to connect them with our users. In doing so, our app will become a funnel which starts with people who are just thinking about tattoo and ends with those, who are confident in the tattoo they want and artists who can get it done, he says, noting they are currently working with six tattoo artists.We just start develop our business model. Today we foresee it to be a 5-10% of booking deposit for tattoo artists, and fixed CPC for temporary tattoo services. But we have a few perspective ideas we going to test nearest few month, he adds.Given the hipster popularity of getting inked these days InkHunters app should bewellpositionedto finda following  assuming it can get more tattoo artists signed up to beef up the number of designs available for virtual try-on.Razumovskyi says early users have been asking for more tattoo designs and styles, and says the plan is to have 50 tattoo artists on board by the next release, along with a newway to browse among the gallery.And fun though the virtual try on is, I think Im going to hold on off getting that snarlingwolf tat for now