1.Post your own photos and videos. 2.Keep your clothes on. These and the rest of Instagrams rules arent changing, but theyre being clarified in an update to its Community Guidelines today.The question will be how far Instagram goes to enforce its ban on sharing what you dont own the rights to, given thats some of its most popular content. Inspirational quotes, memes, TV screengrabs, and concert photos could all be considered against the rules if someone reports you for sharing them.The policies are exactly the same as they were, but were trying to give people a more transparent document says Instagrams director of public policyNicky Jackson Colaco.Heres a look at Instagrams old Community Guidelines, and heres the new version. Colaco tells me The one were currently using were created when the site was really small, and now were over 300 million actives strong with many many people outside the US. Her goal was to make a set of policies that work for the entire globe.Beloware the most controversial main points clarified in the new terminology:Instagram also still prohibits hate speech, threats, blackmail, child porn, glorification or encouragement of self-harm.*  Colaco tells me photos of alcohol, tobacco, and most interestingly, marijuana, will not be prohibited, and that the ban on drugs mostly relates to hard drugs.While Instagrams policies might keep it clean and avoid it getting shut down in conservative countries, some view its guidelines as unnecessary censorship.Ronen V, an Internet artist and outspoken opponent of the ban on artful nudity tells me Facebooks rules about what art/speechto censorare still in many waysmore sexist and repressive than the Catholic Church was in the 1500s, when painting and sculpture weretheirphotography.But at least spelling out the rules will make using Instagram less of a russian roulette game for creators, now that we can see exactly whats approved speech and whatsverboten.Colaco counters that we obviously want to be a place where people are really creative and express themselves. The hard part is that there is no one standard for this stuff. Its really tough to judge when something crosses the line. So Facebook decided to draw the line very conservatively, accepting that it will impinge on peoples ability to share art in order to avoid offending anyone.These clarifications could help creators avoid getting their accounts suspended for bending or breaking the nudity rules. But here, Instagram gets help from people readily using the Report button to flag racy images. Policing copyrighted content will be a lot tougher.Make no mistake, unauthorized re-sharing is huge on Instagram. Lolcat-style Internet memes, sappy life-affirming quotes, and captioned screengrabs get tons of Likes. There are whole accounts with millions of followers devoted to curating this content, and some even get paid for sharing the occasional brand sponsored post.This photo sparked a debate about Instagrams moralsUnlike other user generated content networks like YouTube and SoundCloud, Instagram doesnt offer any copyright fingerprinting system to automatically remove infringing media. Were a couple of years old.I expect that well have better and better tools for this stuff going forward Colaco tells me. But for now,she says content owners will have to manually comb through Instagram report people who share their content without permission to have it taken down.But thats totally infeasible. With 70 million photos shared per day, some privately, theres no possible way for content owners to keep unauthorized sharing in check. The best they can hope for is to spot it when shared by especially popular accounts, but even then, it will probably have reached a massive audience given the real-time, unfiltered nature of Instagrams feed.Instagram sure doesnt make it easy to report copyrighted content, either. While you can report most other types of violations right from the Report button in the app, you have to fill out an obscure separate form for copyright issues.When I asked about several popular Instagram accounts that pull other peoples memes from the web, and post them without attribution, Colaco implied that Instagram wouldnt be going on the offensive. Copyright holders would have to step up before Instagram takes action.That creates a gap between the policy and enforcement. Instagram says you cant post other peoples stuff, but it wont go after those who knowingly do so unless their victim comes forward. Its essentially making a bold claim about protecting rights holders and reserving the right to take down what it wants. Still, Instagram knows its built a business on re-shared content, and wont proactively remove it unless the companys hand is forced.