In case there was any doubt where Instagram was drawing the line when it cameto its shutdown of third-party feed reading apps, it appears that its decision to revoke API access doesnt just extend to thosethatoffer an alternative means of browsing the photo-sharing service. It also reaches apps that offer an expansionof what you can do with Instagram  for example, the recently launched app Being, which let you peer into another users Instagram for the purpose of discovery, has already been killed off.The app launched in February to a bit of press coverage, including here on TechCrunch, as well as on The Verge, Re/code,Business Insider, The Next Web, Motherboard and New York Magazine. The well-designed apps concept was simple  it allowed you to browse Instagram as anyone,whether a pop star, celebrity, techie, politician, tastemaker, or even a brand. You could also use the app to view a friends Instagram feed, which, in reality, was more interesting than being Taylor Swift on Instagram, for example.But the app was plagued with problems as soon as it debuted. Its servers almost immediately crashed, initially due to Amazon Web Services performance issues. Then, as the app became featured on the iTunes App Store and bynon-tech news media sites likeBuzzFeed, Perez Hilton and even Teen Vogue, it struggled under the influx of new users.But as an early stage startup, these are good problems to have  building an app thats popular enough to attract attention is not the worst thing that could happen, though stressful. According to Beings founderAdam Mashaal, after having been live for just over a week, the app had seen nearly 50,000 downloads, had been featured as a Best New App on the App Store in 92 countries, and over 500,000 feeds had been viewed by users.The attention was good for Instagram as well, at least in terms of engagement. Beings users added tens of thousands of likes to Instagrams service, and followed tens of thousands ofaccounts.However, the perils of building on top of anothers platform  and especially one which notified third-party developers to stop doing so  soon emerged. On February 25, with no word or warning, Instagram simply pulled Beings API access. Subsequent attempts to reach the company to discuss failed, says Mashaal, who detailed the whole saga in a blogpost.(Update: We now understand Instagram did reach out to Mashaal but, for whatever reason, thatemail was never received, the developer says.)If anything, his experience should be a word of warning to fellow developers hoping to skirt around Instagrams new API rules. That is,Instagrams platform nowonly permits photo-editing apps and those that let you pull in your own Instagram photos (like Tinder does), brand and ad management apps, and tools for media and broadcasters.Whats interesting about Instagrams decision is the potential it has to harm its still-growing community. Twitter, notably, took a similar direction many years ago. It told its developers that they should no longer compete with the company by building third-party Twitter clients, but rather should focus on other areas, like data and verticals. Fast forward several more years, and we now find Twitter having stagnated in terms of user growth.Instagram, a hugely popular mainstream application, may never have this problem, of course. The Facebook-owned company has already grown to 400 million users, topping Twitter. In other words, its possible thatInstagrams decision to limit outside innovation may not have the same impact on growth that Twitters decision once did. Time will tell.That being said, Mashaal laments the larger shiftthat Beings shutdown represents. The API culture was created to foster innovation and development, he says. Companies looking to grow would invite developers to build on top of their platform and leverage their existing data and tools to grow companies of their own. It was a beautifully symbiotic relationship.Things have changed. The larger corporations that independent developers helped cultivate over the past 5-10 years are now big enough to stand on their own. The app culture is becoming more and more centralized, and its winner-take-all with no holds barred, says Mashaal.