Instagram today is an endless sea of meaningless posts asking you to turn on post notifications for each account you follow. Brands and professional Instagrammers are worried that they are going to disappear from your Instagram feed once the company turns on its algorithmic feed.Weve been here before. When Vine or YouTube switched to an algorithmic feed, brands, YouTubers and Viners all wanted you to switch on notifications. The same happened when Facebook became more selective with Pages posts.And yet, lets be honest, this is getting ridiculous. People are posting things like this:And this: Instagram cambia le regole: se vuoi continuare a vedere le mie foto clicca sui tre puntini in alto a destra e scegli "Attiva le notifiche relative ai post"A photo posted by Vincenzo Langella (@draghetto86) on Mar 28, 2016 at 4:51am PDTAnd this: so people, you're probably sick of this already, well thanks to @instagram for the spam of #letsstaytogether and turn on notifications post. I'm still going to post this cause yes I'm going to be honest here, I work really hard for this, I put a lot of time and effort into taking pictures, writing recipes and well maintaing my account and my blog. You might not actually believe it but sometimes I just sit there 30 minutes and all I do is answer comments. I know I could just not reply, no one forces me to, but I enjoy interacting with this community and I appreciate every single comment so of course I am trying to get back to you all. Anyways my point is that yes I do care if you get to see my pictures and yes I do want maintain this community as amazing as it is as of right now. Now if you fanc y doing so turn on the notifications to always be updated when new recipes are posted on my blog. So peeps, byeeee y'all I'm off to spending some time with the squad who ironically I have met over insta Have a good one#letsstaytogether #instagram #notificationA photo posted by Fanny (@fannythefoodie) on Mar 28, 2016 at 5:24am PDTAre you exhausted? I sure am. But lets try to sympathize with these users and understand whats actually happening.Like most feed-based networks, Instagram is starting to feel like a crowded place. People now follow hundreds of accounts and receive dozens of new photos per hour. Good posts are getting lost in the middle of not-so-good posts.As user experience suffers, people are less inclined to use Instagram. And thats why Instagram has a solution. Soon (but not tomorrow), Instagrams magical robots will put the best photos at the top of your feed. If posts dont perform well, Instagram wont show those posts to all followers.Instagram might even show posts out of order. In other words, Instagram is going to become more like Facebook, and less like Twitter.But brands and professionals should definitely freak out. Some community managers spent months of hard work increasing the number of followers they have on their Instagram accounts. And soon, only a fraction of this fan base is going to receive Instagram posts. Its true, algorithmic feeds force us to compete.Even worse, Instagram doesnt provide analytics tools (except video views). They wont know how many people view their posts. Professionals wont know if theyre doing a good job and what type of posts are performing well. If a brands reach decreases dramatically, some brands will also have to pay for ads like on Facebook. This isnt a bad thing for Instagram, but brands dont want to pay for somethingthey could do for free. Update: Instagram is working on business tools with insights on your content. Its going to be available in the coming months.In short, if you didnt know why everyone is freaking out on Instagram today, now you know. Maybe Instagram will become more interesting after this change. And of course, theres only one possible answer for all those whiny Instagrammers: #instagram #instagramupdate #postnotificationsA photo posted by @_theletterg on Mar 28, 2016 at 7:37am PDTUpdate: Instagram confirmed on Twitter that nothing is changing right now:We're listening and we assure you nothing is changing with your feed right now. We promise to let you know when changes roll out broadly. Instagram (@instagram) March 28, 2016Update #2: An Instagram spokesperson also sent us a few details about the future algorithm. Performance or popularity is not what were optimizing for. While we are using likes and comments as signals, timeliness and the relationship between the poster and the viewer are also important, they said. Were not removing any posts from peoples feeds, just reordering them. Moreover, as it stands, many people arent seeing posts from accounts they care about (on average, an Instagrammer is missing 70 percent of his or her feed). Our goal is to help people see the posts they care about, including from brands.