If youre looking at your Instagram today, you might notice something has changed: older posts from friends and other accounts you care about are now appearing above those that were shared more recently.Yes, the new Instagram algorithm that rearranges the order of posts to show you the best posts first is now going live.We already knew that the company was planning to reorder our feeds.In March, Instagram announced plans to move away from showing posts in strict reverse chronological order, and instead boost those based on the likelihood youll be interested in the content, your relationship with the person posting, and the timeliness of the post, as it explained at the time.If you think thatsounds a lot like parent company Facebooks News Feed algorithm, youd be right. As Facebook came to understand long ago, the posts people want to see arent necessarily those that are the newest. Theyre those that matter to you, personally.But since most of us arent on our phones 24/7  hey, even the busiest people sleep for a few hours per night!  we tend to miss posts from our favorite people. This is especially true if youre trying to keep up with friends in other time zones.As Instagram says in its brief announcementpublishedon Thursday, on average, people miss 70 percent of their feeds. And as Instagram has continued to grow and expand  the company now reports over 400 million monthly users  the number of photos and videos on its service have increased as well. Thats why its making this change.Naturally, the original announcementfrom earlier this year caused a lot of concern among professional Instagrammers and brands. They were worried that this switch would mean their followers wouldnt see their posts as often, and begged users to turn on notifications.Their concerns may be justified  after all, if brands arenot posting content that users engage with, their posts could be buried further down in users feeds as of now.That change could also fuel Instagrams advertising efforts, of course.However, earlier this week, Instagram began rollingout new tools for businesses that will help them address that problem. And just in time.With a new in-app analytics system called Insights, brands can better understand the demographics of their audience, including where they are, when they tend to engage, what posts perform well, and more. If the brand sees one post is doing well, they can transform it into an Instagram ad with just a few taps in the app, too.These newtools are arriving in the coming months for businesses in the U.S., Australia and New Zealand, and will reach the rest of the world by year-end.The new Instagram algorithm for users is now going live or, at least, if you arent seeing ityet, you will very soon, according to the blog post. How soon? According to an Instagram spokesperson, the rollout will reach the entire user base in the month ahead.