With the recent deluge of on-demand startups, many of us expect to get whatever we want with the push of a button, whether its food, a rideorpretty much anything else. So why not medical care for the pets thatwe love?Thats what Elijah Kligeris hoping to deliver with a service called InstaVet. By visiting the InstaVet website, or by just calling or texting (the number is 917-525-2579), you can schedule a house call from a licensed veterinarian. Kligersuggested that normally, scheduling an appointment can feel like youre at the beck and call of the vet, while with InstaVet, We want that to be switched around  the doctors will be your beck and call.Its not quite as quick as calling an Uber driver, but its pretty fast  as I was writing this post on Saturday afternoon, the next available visit was just a few hours away. The company also offers Pet 911 service, with licensed veterinary technicians available to immediately transport your pet to an animal medical center.InstaVet currently serves a number of areas in and around New York, specifically Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Long Island/The Hamptons and Westchester. It charges $199 for an appointment. Thats $150 for the physical exam and $49 for a concierge fee, which also gives you access to advice from InstaVetprofessionals for the next year.Its also offering a $99 promotional price for rescue dogs. And Kligeradded that 10 percent of the companys profits will be donated to local animal shelters.Since launching in April, InstaVet has served hundreds of clients, Kligersaid. One thing hes learned in that time is the importance of the human touch  even if people make a booking on the website, they still speak to someone on the phone. And while Kligerspushing to deliver standard care in the home, the most common request has been euthanasia. Its not the cheeriest of subjects, but theres certainly something to be said for putting your pet to sleep at home, rather than in a hospital.There are currently 10 active veterinarians on the service. Kligersaid that by adding more vetsover time, InstaVet can move closer to truly on-demand service. Hes also planning to expand to other cities in coming months.The service, by the way, is just one part of Kligerplans for his startup InstaPet, which also offers to access other types of pet care providers, as well as a pet taxi service (thats right, Uber for pets). Hes currently focused on InstaVet, but his hope is to eventually delivera Swiss army knife, concierge service for your pet, fixing anything that you could possibly think of.