
Brendan Dickinson is a principal at Canaan Partners.We have entered a golden age for fintech. LendingClubandOnDeckrecently exited through massive IPOs, andglobal investments in thefintechspace hit $3 billion last year. This outpouring of innovation and investment has spread across the financial sector, spanning mobile banking, small business lending, financial advisers, credit scoring, savings and more.Given all the money flowing intofintech, it might seem that the biggest, most glaring problems have been solved. And yet, despite the unbelievable amount of financial innovation and technological progress that have transformed other sectors, there are entire swaths of the financial industry that have not changed. The opportunities are still ripe for the picking.Insurancerepresents a huge opportunity that has yet to see real innovation. The U.S. insurance industry is the largest in the world in terms of revenue, withnet premiums surpassing $1.2 trillion.At the same time, the major players have some of the lowest Net Promoter Score (NPS) ratings of any industry, meaning the companies do not inspire satisfaction or loyalty in their customers.People do not like or trustinsurancecompanies. And its no wonder why, with headlines like 9/11 Responders With Rare Cancer DeniedInsuranceCoverage and Sandy Homeowners Systematically DeniedInsuranceClaims.The industry is notoriously rife with moral hazard and fraud.Add to all of this the antiquated wayinsuranceproducts are delivered to consumers in a world where almost anything can be procured with a few taps of a smartphone screen, and its no wonder that most Americans are underinsured.Less than half of middle market consumersaged 25 to 64 have individual lifeinsurancecoverage, and40 percent of those Americanswho do have lifeinsurancecoverage think they do not have enough. And,64 percent of American homes are underinsured.Theinsuranceindustry is begging for disruption.Outside of the Affordable Care Act,nextto nothing has changed in theinsuranceindustry for years. Why has it been so slow to change? To start, there are high barriers to entry. The insurance industry is complex and expensive from a regulatory standpoint.New carriers are required to have unencumbered stores of cash to satisfy the regulators, and have to grow those unencumbered assets in proportion to the amount of risk they have underwritten, which is ever-increasing.This challenge is far worse ininsurancethan in lending. In addition, for some lines of insurance, pricing is regulated at the state level, with regulators controlling how much a company charges for a given product. For all these reasons, it is a difficult and slow process to bring a new insurance product to market in the U.S.Then there is the adverse selection problem the first people who need a new product often are the highest risk, and thus you run the risk of seeing much higher claims than the industry average once you launch. For a startup, this is just when you are the youngest and most vulnerable.A few brave souls have taken an early crack at this market and seen success  most notably,Oscarand Metromile. Oscar is a better kind of healthinsurancecompany that aims to use technology and design to improve the experience. The company is now valued at a whopping $1.5 billion, just a year-and-a-half after its launch.Metromile sells pay-per-mile carinsurance, which appeals to the 70 percent of people who drive under 10,000 miles a year, and thus probably overpay for carinsurance.Both companies offer intuitive and accessible (mobile) user interfaces, consumer-friendly business models and greater transparency. This is just the tip of iceberg  every line ofinsuranceneeds to be millennialized, and I expect well see huge disruption in home, life and P&C, just to name a few.However, the biggest opportunities for startups will be in four areas: new products for a new economy, better insights from better data, new ways of managing risk and funding regulatory capital and new structures for acquiring customers.With the rise of Uber, Airbnb and others, our economy is moving away from owning assets to renting them. Existing policies offered by big insurers dont handle these new use cases and will have to be replaced. But the bigger shift is that in this new world, the concept of insuring an asset over many periods is outdated; instead, we will move to a more transactional consumption model: just-in-timeinsurancedelivered on mobile and underwritten in seconds.One upcoming company in this area isSURE, whichis going to deliver consumer-facing insurance products at the push of a button.There are also reams more data available today than 10 years ago, which means new ways to underwrite risk. For example, Apple watches and FitBits provide information and insight into peoples daily activity that can be extremely useful when making health assessments.And in the auto industry, a huge risk is how far and through what geography an individual drives to work each day. While accelerometers have been around for years, every cell phone now has a GPS, which provides far more accurate and detailed data.Newinsurancecompanies are tackling the capital requirement challenges in a number of interesting ways. Oscar raised a huge first round of capital, and has continued raising large rounds  driven in part by the need for regulatory capital.Others are taking a page from online lending and adopting peer-to-peer models to try to provide the requisite capital for regulators. Weve seen a lot of folks take this approach internationally (Friendsurance in Germany, for example) and others are taking the same approach here  Im interested to see how regulators react in the U.S.Finally, theinsuranceindustry is begging for new ways to acquire customers. Millennials are shockingly underinsured. This is partly because they simply do not want to talk to someone on the phone. The channelsthey like to use and those with which they are most comfortable are not the channels on which insurancecompanies try to reach them. As a result, a huge target demographic is underserved.PolicyGeniusis already showing that they can convert this previously un-convertible population by providing better information and education online.I am bullish on the future ofinsurancestartups. Yes, there are challenges, but every problem worth solving comes with challenges, and theinsuranceindustry is crying out for change. People were skeptical at first that consumers would ever trust startups, rather than banks, with their financial needs, or that startups would be able to affect change in such a conservative, entrenched and powerful industry. That turned out to be wrong, and incumbent banks are now realizing that they have to innovate to stay alive, making acquisitions and partnerships left and right.Similarly in theinsuranceindustry, I dont think the innovation will come from within. I think that startups will create the opportunities, and forceinsurancecompanies to turn their slow wheels of change.