Intel CEO Brian Krzanich, widely known for his efforts to improve diversity in the technology industry, planned to host a fundraiser at his home for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump this week. Butafter an Intel spokesperson fielded questionsfrom the New York Times about the fundraiser, the event was cancelled.An Intel spokesperson said that the fundraiser would include a full exchange of views, according to the New York Times. Intel did not give a reason for the cancellation, and Trump announced that he would hold a rally in San Joseon the same evening.Financial support for Trump, who famously called Mexican immigrants rapists and speculated this week about the race of the judge overseeing a lawsuit against Trump University, seems incongruous with Krzanichs diversity activism. Krzanich has invested heavily in increasing diversity at Intel, spending $300 million on diversity efforts and working with Rev. Jesse Jackson on his PUSHTech 2020 initiative.But a closer look at Intels political donations suggests thatthe companys political ideals may be more right-leaning thanexpected. Intels PAC, which is funded by contributions from the companys employees, donated a total of $781,784 to politicians in 2015, according to Intels annual corporate responsibility report. Fifty-five percentof the money went to Republican members of Congressand their PACs, with the remainder going to Democratic leaders.The Intel PAC has donated to high-profile Republican leaders, contributing $10,000to former House Speaker John Boehner lastMay, months before Boehner resigned his post as speaker. The PAC also gave $5,000 to Marco Rubio in his capacity as a senator, and $1,000 to the pro-life advocate Sen. Mitch McConnell.In addition to Intels contributions to members of Congress, the company also donated to several Republican groups in the last year,including a $5,000 donation to the Freedom Project last May and a $2,500 donation to Invest in a Strong and Secure America this January. Both groups provide financial backing for Republican members of Congress; Invest in a Strong and Secure America also donated $5,000 dollars to Rubios presidential campaign.Intels PAC also spends generously on the Democratic side of the aisle, contributing $10,000 a piece to Sen. Ron Wyden, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Rep. Mike Honda, and others.Krzanich does not appear to regularly donate to political candidates himself, making his willingness to host a fundraiser for Trump even more striking.In 2009, Krzanich donated $1,500 to Wydens Senate campaign, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics. Wyden is known for his advocacy on behalf oftechnology and has supported strong encryption in Congress.We recognize that it is impractical and unrealistic to expect that we or our stockholders and stakeholders will agree with every issue that a politician or trade association may support, Intel wrote in its 2015 responsibility report. In such cases, we base our decision on the issues that will have the greatest benefit for our stockholders and key stakeholders. Should we identify significant incongruencies between a candidates record and our own policies, we will disclose this information as part of our political accountability disclosure process.Update: An Intel spokesperson provided the following statement: Brian Krzanich is not endorsing any presidential candidate. We are interested in engaging both campaigns in open dialogue on issues important to the technology industry.