The concept of the Internet of Things is getting a big boost from emerging industries likeautonomous cars and robotics, andtoday Intel announced an acquisition that could help it make sure that its own developments and products in this marketare fault-free: it is acquiring Yogitech, a small company based out of Italy that works on functional safety for semiconductors.Terms of the deal are not being disclosed, and it looks like this is Intels first acquisition in Italy. Yogitech is not your typical startup. Founded in 2000, it had raised less than $3 million, and its investors included the chamber of commerce of Pisa.Intel has confirmed to me that it was not an investor itself, although the two were already working together, namely by way of Altera, which Intel acquired last year. Yogitech works directly with chipmakers like Infineon and its not clear right now how the acquisition will affect those relationships.Functional safety may not sound likethe sexiest aspect of self-driving vehicles and other kinds of robots that will do our bidding, but its one of the more essential ones. What Yogitech (and companies like it) do is make sure that the processors running these systems work as they should, and alert us humans accurately and in real time when they do not. Getting this aspect of the business right will be essential in getting these services off the ground and accepted by the wider public.Yogitech will become a part of Intels IoT group. Intel is not spelling out exactly how its tech will be implemented, although a recent deal between it and Altera could point to where its tech will increasingly get embedded. Here, the companies are working together to embed a so-called lockstep safety solution for the Nios II embedded processor. Altera said this reduces risk in design cycles and helps system designers simplify certification for industrial and automotive safety applications.Additionally, today Ken Caviasca, VP and GM of platform engineering and development in the Internet of Things Group at Intel, underscored that the sort of problems that Yogitech is solving are those that Intel is trying to address right now:For years, Intel has been providing high-performance, IoT systems that allow people and businesses to make better-informed decisions, he writes in a blog post. The industry is now moving from automating data to inform better decisions, toautomating actions informed by real-time data. You can see this evolution in the autonomous vehicle prototypes that nearly all have Intel inside. Functional safety is a requirement for these and other IoT customers. We see the combination of high performance and functional safety as a natural evolution of Intels IoT platform and strategy.The acquisition comes at a time whenit looks like Intels executive ranks leading its IoT efforts are changing, too. Yesterday, it was reported that Doug Davis, a longtime Intel employee whohad been SVP and GM of Intels IoT Group, is retiring at the end of this year. Intel noted in his bio thatresponsibilities included manufacturing, industrial, retail, transportation, smart buildings and homes and aerospace.