Emotional complexity andemoji can feel pretty mutually exclusive. Exaggerated cartoon antics daubed withbrash primary colorsdont typically lend themselves to expressing subtle shifts in mood, or communicating less excitable states of mind.Even traditional textspeak tends towardsmelodrama. We LOL (laugh out loud), rather thanlumb(laughing under mybreath). Wesanctiondifferenceby exclaiming WTF. We ROTFLOL. WeshriekOMG. Or ZOMG.A bad day is branded FML. The quietest textpressionis probably the oftoverlooked smh.For (more) relentless histrionics see animated GIFs. Aka the quickest way toderaila nuanced discussion or rebut an intellectual argument with the minimum of effort (just ask Google).Visual shortcuts for expressingless brash and/or extroverted sentimentsdigitally are, well, few and far between. Being thoughtless is so much easier, takes so much less effort onlinethan being thoughtful. And that riskscoloring our communications. Which is a shame. Because were not exercisinga full emotional range. Discussionsgetpushed towardsreductivelight andshade, instead of taking in the humanspectrum.Well, quieter and more considered peopleshould redirecttheir browsers toIntroji*:a project aiming to bring some much-needed nuance to visual communications  by crowdsourcing an emoji app for introverts. (*not to be confused with custom emotion maker Imoji)California-based designer and artist Rebecca Lynchis the introverted brain behind the project. As you might hope, Lynchworks in a bookshop, not in tech, so shes working with an app design firm to bring theproject to life. As well as using crowdsourcing platformIndiegogo to raise the roughly $4,000 requiredto build Android and iOS apps, and fulfill the various backer rewards.Introji started out as a personal project after I was having trouble communicating with a fellow introverted friend going through a rough patch, Lynch tells TechCrunch. We used emojis a lot to try to express things that were hard to say in words, or to lighten the mood  and kept using them because theyre fun. The current emoji are mostly aimed at social activities, and theres very little to represent inner states of mind or alone activities.I thought it might be fun to have a set of dedicated emojis to fill that gap. So basically I started making them because I wanted them. An early version of the project got some press, and the response was overwhelming. Lots of people seemed to want them too, so I thought  lets try to make this actually happen. Why not?The plan for the app is to have 40 Introji in all  with visualexpressions ranging from actual and abstract activities like reading andrecharging my batteriesto feeling along in a group, worried about going to the party and happily alone with my cat, and a whole lot more besides.The very first idea was the little guy in states of charging, and those pretty much sum up the whole project. I think they are the most useful and direct, says Lynch.My own favorites have changed, but I like the guy (or gal) with the pillow. Im just about to post a few new introji around introverts in the workplace  I like the idea that someone of quiet persuasion might be sitting at a meeting being talked over and text one to a friend or colleague, a kind of undercover eye-roll and way of saying help!'Introji are absolutely not dressedin standardsmilie yellow livery. Rather they havea range of fleshy skin tones, which is a topical design choice given Apple finallyrolling out more diverse emoji in iOS 8.3earlier this month.A lot of people requested diversity from the start, says Lynch. That was the first thing I changed, to show a range of skin tones. I thought it was better to show different skin tones than reduce everyone to the same abstract colour. Im a not-too-techie person trying to make technology feel a bit more human, so it makes sense to me.Shehas been taking crowdsourced suggested for Introjivia a Facebook page. There was also an option on the Indiegogo campaign to request a custom emoji (now sold out).The most requested so far has been time with my cat, she adds. A lot of people have asked for Introji around social situations  like feeling alone at a party, or being happy to sit back and observe, or being annoyed by other peoples loud talking. Some of these are pretty hard to represent, but Im doing my best. The simple ones, like states of mind, are usually the best though.You can see a few more of her animated Introji here.If Lynchs crowdfunder flies  and its looking pretty likely, given her modest funding target, and the fact shes already close to 90% of the way there  shes aimingto get the app launched by July, working with her chosen mobile app dev firm, TBC Digital.It will be possible to send Introji to people who dont also have the app  byselecting an in-app option to send one as a text message or WhatsApp, or by copy and pasting onto another platform like Facebook  but receivers will obviously need the app to send Introjiback.Its my hope that people will use the app with friends (its more fun if the person youre texting to can send one back) so Ive made a get one and gift one offer on the crowdfunding page, and thats been the most popular, she adds.This article was updated with a correction to Lynchs surname