The latest high profile individual to debunk the notion that surveillance is at risk of going dark in an age of increasingly robust encryption is none other than James Clapper, U.S. director of national intelligence himself.Clapper was submittingevidence to the US Senateas part of an assessment of threats faced when he made specific comments predicting thatsurveillance capabilities could, in future, be expanded by intelligence agencies tappinginto the Internet of Things to monitor and identify suspects via the connected devices they are being increasingly surrounded with.Its notable as the IoT has generally been ignored in the public rhetoric of the security services up to now. Instead theyve been far more keen to talk about how tech companies use of strong encryption is raining on their mass surveillance parade.In the future, intelligence services might use the [internet of things] for identification, surveillance, monitoring, location tracking, and targeting for recruitment, or to gain access to networks or user credentials, Clapper is reported to have said(via The Guardian).Hiscomments followa Harvard study published earlier this month also involving input from standing U.S. counterterrorism officials  which argued that the rise of connected devices presents massive opportunities for surveillance, bolstered bytechnology companies having business models that relyon data-mining their own users (therebyproviding an incentivefor them not torobustly encrypt IoT data).This is especially interesting given a recent Pew studyofAmericans attitudes to privacy, which found plenty of variation in how people in the US think about privacy and the trade-offs they are willing to make to obtain a convenient tech service. But thestudy flagged up that the scenario ofmost concern to respondents focused on smart home-style technologies thatthreaten to impinge on domestic privacy.ThatsuggestsAmericans are already wary of commercial surveillance of their domestic spaces via connected devices. Throw in the risk of systematic state spying via insecure smart appliances andthere could surely be a knock-on effect on theadoption of IoT devices  if IoT becomes synonymous in the public mind with I spy.Despite Clapperscomments on IoT offering rich potential for future surveillance, in the same testimony heapparently also reiterated the standard allegation from government agenciesthatgrowing use of encryption is having a negative effect on intelligence gathering.Which, if nothing else, underlines the bottomless appetite intelligence agencies have for data. Even with the vast troves of intelpromised by mass adoption of connected devices in peoples homes whichwill effectively doubleas bugging devices(conveniently self-installed by the home-owner), the security services stated desire is for multiple surveillance lines in to citizens lives.So not just the ability to track your real-time location, look into and harvest visuals and ambient noise fromyour domestic environment, and gobble up your metadata, they also thirst for the capability to crack into the content of your digital communications too. There are many arguments in defense of encryption. Helping to beat back state surveillance overreach is justanother to add to the pile.Ironically enough, Clapper also raised cyber security as a major concern in his testimony to the Senate armed services committee, warning about the role of Chinese cyber espionage against the US and noting that non-state actors such as ISIS are developinga cyber capability. Meanwhile President Obamas fiscal 2017 budget proposalincludes a requestfor $19 billion for cyber security across the U.S. government  an increase of $5 billion. So theres a recognition at the highest political level in the US that cyber security is of growing importance.And how does one typically combat cyber security risks? Why, with robust encryption of courseAs tech companies continue topoint out, you cant provide backdoors in encryption just for the good guys. Weaken your encryption to spy on your own citizens and youre offering a helping hand tothe Chinese (or ISIS or whoever) to dothe same. So if Obama wants to bolster US cyber security, the best thing he can do is lay downsome robust red lines around encryption. And make the security services respect them.In a more positive development on the encryption front, U.S. House of Representative lawmakers are attempting to quash recent state-level moves to weaken encryption by introducing proposed legislation to prevent any state or locality from mandating aweakening of security.The Encrypt Actis being sponsored by Democratic Representative Ted Lieu and Republican Blake Farenthold, andwould prevent any state or locality from mandating that a manufacturer, developer, seller, or provider design or alter the security of a product so it can be decrypted or surveilled by authorities, according to Reuters. Lets hope this piece of tech savvy sanity prevails.