
Jarno M. Koponen is a designer, humanist and previously a co-founder of media discovery startup Random.What do you do when you dont know what you want to read,watch, listen to or do next? What do you do if you dont know what to searchfor? Orcant describe clearly what youd be interested in next?There are so many great choices available in the digitalrealm, and new stuff is pouring in every second. Many times we feel helpless infront of such anabundance of endless possibilities.Nevertheless, so far no one has created a solution that wouldautomatically bring all the interesting options to your fingertips without youasking for it.A universal personalized Discovery solution doesnt exist yet. Why?There have been various attempts and approaches to crack personalizedDiscovery  at least partially.StumbleUpon has been around for a while. The app providescontent based on selected categories and other Stumblersyou follow.Flipboardspersonalized magazine has transformed into a social news platform.You personalize your own experience by curating content sources and followingpeople. Pinterest, too, has a follow model for people, their content and topics. ItsGuided Search with combinable keywords works as an additionalinterface alongsidethe curated feed.Pocket recently released its Recommended section thatprovides content based on the things that you savedfor later. Google Now deliversuseful information based on your previous actions and historical data. And Facebookis just entering the game with itsM that supposedly recommends actions andcontent.Most oftodays Discovery solutions resemble social medias friendshipor follow paradigm. You follow people and their content or you follow selected keywords and categories to personalize your own experience. However, this paradigmtends to reinforce our existing information silos. Bydirectly customizingthings for ourselves, our social and personal biases restrict the way we exposeourselves to new information.Additionally, itbecomes hard to estimate howmuch personalization actually happens automatically and how it helps us indiscovering things. The wider the pool ofinformation, the more we have to workto detect the signal from the noise.At the same time, the user experience of a purely machine-poweredapproach hasnt still crossed the uncanny valley. A machine telling us whatweshould be seeing and doing next has a dystopian aura, even in very mundanecircumstances. Many times the algorithmic suggestions that dont directlyreflect our social environment or past interactions appear to be too obtrusiveor outright ridiculous. Indeed, machine-powered Google Now focuses ondeliveringuseful information instead of new explorative choices.Discovery currently exists as a category of Internetservices and apps, as well as a functional feature in some content-specificplatforms (e.g., Spotifyand Snapchat). But no one has come up with a universalDiscovery paradigm for the mainstream audience.There are five main challenges faced by the universal Discoverysolution:Clear ValueProposition And Use Case.Universal Discovery lacks a clearly defined value proposition, and thus a crystal clear use case. Why do you need universal Discoveryin the firstplace? In Search we are looking for specific and relevant answers.In Social were connecting and communicating with other people. But how do youdefine a universal value proposition and use case for something so highlysubjective and contextualas Discovery?People dont think consciouslythat they are discovering something. They might not even recognizea need for discovery. On the contrary, a discovery happens often asa by-product of some other activity.Frictionless UserExperience.Current mainstream user interfaces and experiences haventbeen designed, developed or optimized for Discovery. For example, the news feedand itsvariations provide a very linear and limited way of presentinginformation. Personalized Discovery requires a new design approach because findinginterestingchoices includes potential effort and friction.Trial and error can form asignificant part of the exploration process. Friction emerges whenwe encounterunexpected choices or when we need to wait for something to happen. Additionally, theexperience should proactively pique our curiosity,simultaneously outweighingour personal and social biases.Technologies For AdaptivePersonalization And Content Presentation. Creating a universal Discovery solution brings together twomajor technological challenges: unobtrusive personalization and sleek content delivery.Adaptive personalization requires an unseen level of automated customizationbased on our intricate selves. To achieve this, the system needs to beable tocapture our meaningful interactions and utilize our diverse personal data.Currentapplications of personalization using human curation,algorithmic systems andmachine learning methods  or their combinations dont yet learn or deliverfast enough, nor do they let us express ourselvesas unique individuals. Concurrently,the various forms and types of digital content are messy, and require a lot of sophisticatedprocessing to bepresented fluently in various screens and devices.Accessible Data AndContent.The almost infinite sea we call the Internet has become a collectionof confined ponds with their own walls and rules. Platforms build their own understandingof you, and usually they dont let you control how your data couldbe used for your own benefit in other places.Simultaneously, an increasingamountof content is becoming platform-exclusive. Major social platforms arebecoming content silos, enabling exploration on their own terms and only insidetheir own boundaries. Media houses are locking their content behind specificaccess points.Discovery Paradox.Additionally, theres an inherent tension in combiningpersonalization and Discovery. Personalization is about customizing yourexperience, guidingyour choices and serving information based on your needsand personal preferences. Then again, discovery refers to the things that aresomehow newand surprising. Indeed, discovery can be as much about questions asit is about answers. It can be as much about irrational and serendipitous as it isabout rational and relevant.The things that you recognize as meaningful discoveriesarent necessarily what you expect them to be. You mightencounter somethingyou didnt know you wanted or you didnt even know existed. A discovery can be verypersonal and context-specific, thus beingmeaningful only to you.So, is there a way to overcome this multitude of complexchallenges? Or is the universal Discovery solution just a Fata Morgana of theearly age ofpersonalization?A truly smart universal Discovery system makes sense. Theamount of information is exploding, and we need better methods to make sense ofit. At thesame time, the current tools provide only a restricted access to theinformation that is beyond our personal and social bubbles.Personalized Discovery can find a balance between relevanceand serendipity, as well as rewards and friction, by creating favorable discoveryconditions for you as a unique individual. The system understands yourarticulated and ambient interests by mapping the unique connections you seearound you.A universal Discovery system provides choices instead of the onespecific answer. By understanding your interests, the system can exposeyou tothings that you find surprising, even challenging. Simultaneously, it providesmeaningful information in easily digestible chunks that let youchoose yourpreferred level of engagement. The presentation is modified based oncontent form, type and context. To serve content from diversesources, theDiscovery system taps into the free as well as paid content pools on yourbehalf.As the amount of potentially discoverable information isalmost infinite, human curation and algorithmic methods are used to complementeach other.Curation can be made a seamless part of the basic Discovery flow.Your actions curate content for other people and educate the system at the sametime. The nuanced human assessment of quality is thus interwoven to themachine-powered dynamics such as prioritizing recommendations andpresentinginformation.In Discovery, goal-driven and casual experiences can coexist.The system brings together various content and action categories such as books,music,movies, travel, food, dating and news. By understanding your preferenceswith movies and the latest pop culture news  and being able to detect yourcurrentmood  the Discovery system recommends new interesting music choices. Also, it can surface interesting weak signals andunseenopportunities. By understanding your daily activities, it can serve a surprisingmicro-eureka moment when you get trapped in your mundaneroutines.Maybe Discovery itself is an ambient system. Its presentand available in the background, only activating when it makes sense to you. Time-consumingcomplex stuff is hidden under the hood. The system notifies you when somethingis happening or already waiting for you. Such aDiscovery solution is yournever-sleeping intelligent extension that doesnt need continuous actions fromyour part.This would be more in tune withour natural experience of discoveringnew, interesting things almost coincidentally. When digital and physical becomemore and more entangled,ambient Discovery can be the new user experience paradigmfor VR.However, could any Discovery technology help us to find anythingtruly new and meaningful if were not open to exploration ourselves? Maybe awell-tuned Discovery system could educate us to be more open toward diversityand serendipity. And, potentially, finding the right dynamics forpersonalizedDiscovery could be the key for creating more human-centered and diverse digitalexperiences for all of us.