A panel session probing the perennial heads or tails of mobile device commoditization vs mobile device innovation here at MWC 2016 earlier today heard an interesting range of views. Speakers ran the gamut of mobile makers big and small (Samsung, Motorola/Lenovo and Wileyfox), through to chipset maker Qualcomm, alternative open Android flavorCyanogen, and mobile operator Telefonica.Each had their own spin on what innovation means in the smartphone space now, in the context of mature Western markets  andinevitably aligning with theirrespective business imperatives. And no one was quite willing to pronounce smartphones too boring to be bought in the sought for quantities to sustain the mobile growth engine. Although there were various takes on what being innovative in smartphone terms means now.Connected devices extending the capabilities of handsets  and thus acting as an added selling point incentive  are clearly front of mind for some, such asSamsung, which has of course had a tougher time in thehyper competitive smartphonemarketin recent years.The idea that both innovation and commoditization are happening simultaneously  with a two-tier smartphone market in play thats simultaneously delivering increasing value on the one hand, yet still coming up with compelling new bells and whistles at the premium top of the line was also generally accepted.On the innovation side when we hear innovations gone from the category we think thats absolutely wrong, said Tim McDonough, SVP of marketing at Qualcomm, pointing to flagship announcements this week from Samsung and LG. Innovation in the handsets not constrained to the 4.5 inch or 5 inch screen in the device; its everything surrounding it, including the ability to capture virtual reality and watch it and share it over wireless with friends and family, he argued.Samsungs Jean-Daniel Ayme, Corporate VP of its IM division, asserted thatthe centre of an ecosystem is now building around the smartphone  talking up the VR angle it was pushing heavily at its flagship launch event yesterday.Its Gear VR headset links to and extendsthe capabilities ofits flagship smartphones so the headset featured prominently in the launch of the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge (Some might say too prominently ). So you could argue a flagship phone in and of itself is not longer enough to turn heads and excite upgrades on its own. But throw in compelling enough connected accessories and that changes the game, argued Ayme.Stephane Maes, VP of product management and planning at Motorola, now owned by Lenovo, said its take on innovation is more about building features into phones that consumers are genuinely asking for - noting, for instance, that it is selling a phone which boasts of having an unbreakable screen. And talking upmeaningful innovations that matter to consumers. So kind of the opposite ofVR then; i.e. really practical stuff, rather thanpure fantasy.The wild card on the panel, UK smartphone startup Wileyfox, which uses Cyanogens flavor of Android on its smartphones, argued its delivering innovative by offering consumers an alternative on the two-year carrier contract that locks people into paying a hefty chunk for handsethardware. CEO Nick Muirs argument is that handset component costs have been commoditized so that when coupled with aleanstartupphilosophyitsable to deliver innovation in the form of a range of affordable yet acceptable (in terms of performance and design) smartphones to budget-conscious customers.People may much too much for their mobile devices, saidMuir. More and more people are beginning to see the cracks in the standard model  and that standard model being you have to pay for a two year contract to be able to afford the device you want I know that the bill of materials allows us to be able to sell the device at a reasonable price and the reason we can do that is not enormous scale, its not just tier one components, its around the fact that we dont have any sporting contracts, we dont have legacy pensions, we dont have glass offices, we all travel by EasyJet and we stay in Airbnb. We are a low cost organization and that low cost gets passed on to the consumer  and thats part of it.For Cyanogen itself, which builds its own software additions into open Android and thusaims to expand the capabilities offered by stock Android (being steered in that mission by asking a core community of developers what new OS features they would like to see), its latest software development is focused on reducing friction with app interactions.Today we announced a platform on top of Cyanogen, called MOD, and what MOD is essentially the post-app interaction model, notedVikram Natarajan, SVP, global partnerships & distribution, referencing its earlier MWC news. We can take the best of apps and integrate them in the surface areas of the operating system  such as your dialer, such as your calendar, such as your lock screen, so you have much richer interaction models with those services that you know and love, while still potentially going back to the app for a more fully featured interaction.MOD we believe is the future of interactions when it comes to these services, and its not apps vs MODS, its apps and MODs  because MODs extend the app experience. And we think this is interesting because now from a commodity perspective we can partner with handset makers and provide them differentiation over and above regular good old Android.Privacy and security rising up the agendaOneinteresting theme that emerged from the discussion was that privacy/security is becoming an increasing differentiator for different players in a commoditized smartphone space.In the Android OEM space you could argue thats a symptom of the platform being steeredby Google, a company whose business model is based on amassing huge amounts of data about users in order to power its ad targeting business. (Although Apples opposite, very public pro-privacy stancewhen it comes to iOSmay well be encouraging others tofollow its lead too.)So little wonder there has been room for Cyanogen to expand Android by, for example, pushing the development of individual app controls for users (a feature which has now trickled down toWileyfoxs Android devices, for example).The lone carrier voice on the panel, Francisco Montalvo, director of the group devices unit for Telefnica S.A, also asserted that privacy will be increasingly important as the Internet of Things proliferates  arguing that consumers will become more aware of the trade offs they are making in exchange for access to more andmore connected services.I dont think the smartphone itself will be providing the innovation we are expecting. I truly believe the information gathered by the smartphone will create new use cases for consumers  thats where the value is. And thats why for us its so important that the consumer are aware of the information that the smartphone is gathering  and how that information is shared with other third parties. Thats why we are supporting Cyanogen. Thats why we believe consumers need to be aware about the value they are getting in exchange of information they are sharing, he said. This is where we see  in the next two years  a lot of movement.Qualcomms McDonough also talked up future developments coming down the pipe related to privacy and security. We think the next is the phone is your personal identity. We dont mean your phone just for payments, or your phone just for your health records. But your phone as a representation of you. And when you think about how important that device could be for your, as your digital passport, going from country to country, the need for security and authentication becomes so incredibly important, he said.Qualcomms investing a lot in things like machine learning, the ability to run all of the sensors in your smartphone all of the time. And with a device thats aware of who you are, what your behavior patterns are, it actually continually authenticates that youre you  without having to put in a pin or a password or a fingerprint. So think about your phone as your personal identity and how important security is and how you can protect that information. I think thats one area of innovation.The other is really your phone as a thinking entity. So again take the ability to run a neural network on your phone, have that neural network aware of whats going on around it from all the sensors that are running on it constantly  can your phone become a personal assistant thats context aware, can make decisions for you Thats aware of you, your habits and whats always going on with the data in the phone and the world surround it, he added.Those are just a couple of examples where anyone whos saying theres no innovation in the smartphone today is going to be here in a year or two or three is going to be surprised with what the next wave of handsets is going to do.On security and privacy, Wileyfoxs Muir described it as one of the differentiating pillars for its affordable Android user experience.Weve spent a lot of time on that. I dont think its right that apps should be able to harvest your data and give your data away to the highest bidder or use themselves. You should have more control over that, he noted, listing it first in his list of critical tweaks, ahead of even device personalization and comfort.