
Daniel Rosenfeld is the mobile marketing manager at Glide.Virtualrealityhas been around for ages, but it has only recentlygotten big andexciting,with every major player on the planet either working on a VR project or rumored to be doing so. It begs the question: Why? And how farwill it go this time around?WithVR,the user is completely submerged in a new computerizedreality,whereas with augmentedreality (AR),the physical andvirtual mesh to give the user a synergetic experience (similar to Google Glass). Companies like Magic Leap are said to be makinghuge headway with AR technology.Thereis no doubt VRand AR can have magnificent applications, from simply getting away to a white sandy beach for a few minutes of your day, to playing a real-life game, tomoreadvanced applications, such as having a meeting/conference call with others within a VR environment, taking a class ona virtualfield trip, shopping in avirtualmall, training military forces/pilots, leading a full-on second life experience or having your urban street turn into a jungle while you walk through it.Take video calls for example. Its one thing to have a video call with a friend or family member, but its another thing to actually transcend time and space and be with them in the same location while physically miles away.As with most technologies, however, no matter how cool or exciting the product is, we all know the companies leading the charge are also planning to make a fair buck  and no, I dont mean in virtual dollars.BothVRand ARwill give marketers a whole new array of advertising products. From virtual billboards to product placement, the possibilities are endless  and once you are immersed in VR/AR, your most valuable human traits are no longer in your hands, and you are easily subjected to your new surroundings.One of the most challenging aspects of marketing is delivering a message that not only builds awareness of a product but also evokes emotion. After all, regardless of what we may believe, we are all emotional buyers. Getting the attention of your audience and conveyingemotion takes on a whole new twist when you control the entire environment your users are in.VR and AR are not only the future of gaming, education and communication, but also the future of marketing. This is why companies like Facebook purchasedOculusformore than2 billion dollars, and why HTC has Vive, Sony hasMorpheus, Canon hasMREAL(designed as a B2B platform), Google has invested heavily in Magic Leap and Apple is rumored to be hard at work fighting for their spot.But its not only the big players; a multitude of startups are rising to the occasion. AltspaceVR is already working on a social platform through VR where people can come together and interact using Oculus  they even have a desktop client that lets you try it out and get a feeling without the need for a headset.VRIDEO enables its users to stream video to their VR headsets and experience VR spaces. Fishbowl VR is working on an analytics tool that will enable developers of VR to gain a better understanding of their users and how they interact in VR; this could range from technical aspects to understanding how toadvertise more effectively.Surre.al is a multiplayer VR gaming platform. Want to watch sports in VR with your friends? LiveLike is tackling that one. Vizor lets you build your own VR experience on a desktop, which you can then share with friends. Want to get news on VR and AR? Head to UploadVR and get a glimpse of the near future, or sign up and interact with the growing VR/AR community. Lastly,Blippar is an AR media service providing companies with all levels of AR advertising solutions.It is clear that VR and AR companies are aiming high; itsmorethana fun gaming space, its gearing up to be the next frontier after the web  its where people will take social experiences to the next level, and both market leaders and startups are rushing to enter this space. If successful, itwill no doubt become the largest advertising platform on earth. In fact, one could argue that virtual reality ismoreabout controllingrealitythanit isvirtual.How far are we from the daywe will see adverts in VR?The law of supply and demand is already proving true, and companies such as VirtualSKY are already offering 360 degree ads for virtual headsets. VirtualSKY transforms your digital advertising into betterthanreal experiences that win love, build followings and earn viral shares. Why settle for a small video box when you can transport your users into your brands world.When asked at TechCrunch Disrupt SF about ads in VR,Andrew Bosworth, Facebooks head of Ads and Pages,stated,That experience should include ads, because life includes ads. So to not have ads would make it less lifelike.How far will it go? Only time will tell. In the meantime, we can only imagine the day when we are in our office looking down from Mount Everest, drinking a cola from the vending machine that magically appeared at the summit.