Editors note:Tadhg Kelly is a games industry analyst, designconsultant and the creator of leading blogWhat Games Are. He iscurrentlywriting a book called Core Game Design. You can follow him on Twitterhere.Writing has a kind of half-life. As youre drafting you tend to find your way to what you want to say, and its a little like enriching your rods. When you get to publishing your words often feel at their most energetic, ready to burst upon the world, and you feel a combination of utter certainty on the one hand and complete powerlessness on the other. You know that a minute after publishing you will either have been Right or Wrong in the eyes of the world (well, Twitter and the comments section) but before that moment you know nothing.However, regardless of either outcome, their energy soondissipates. In the days after publishing you sneakily tweak a post occasionally after noticing the inevitable grammatical error that slipped through but beyond that it quickly fades from view.A month later you dontremember what exactly you said. Six months later you forget that you even wrote a post on a particular topic at all, occasionally finding yourself writing the exact same article and only remembering half way through.The feeling uponreading your olderwork, as a result, is not good. Like many people who write I hate re-reading what Ive published long after its done because when I do I usually feel like a fool. Every post is a plethora of flabby paragraphs, forgettable constructions, ill-advised imagery and trip-ups in the narrative that only Ican see yet which damn mefor all time. Irealize just how wrong Iwas. Games that I thought would be big deals turn out to have been damp squibs. Market movements that I was convinced would take off fizzled and died leaving nothing in their wake.This happens to anyone who writes about anything 99% of the time.But sometimes there are those 1%s, those instances when you got something dead goddamn right. Its rare that the future as envisioned comes through exactly as you predicted (timeframes are usually wrong) but the essence turns out to be as you foretold. Then you feel great. Temporary insight is useful but insight that hits home are worth their weight in gold, worth the risk. Those moments make the failures feel survivable.This leads me to thinking about the Windows 10 Store and its imminent re-launch, and in particular its impact on games.A few years ago we (consultants, bloggers, pundits etc) predicted the arrival of a mobile idea on desktop computers: app stores. Soon after came the Mac App Store, and then the Windows Store. Both heralded PC gamings future, particularly for the more casual end of the market. Wed already had the Steam store forever but it was always just a bit too geeky for commoner-player usage. Mobile showed there was a wayto attract a wider trancheof players with cheap or free games, in-app purchases and so on. The task for Apple and Microsoft seemed to be to create environments that would bring Clash of Clans equivalents to laptops and desktops everywhere, and from there would fortunes be made anew.The reality? Crickets or  as my Americans friends might say  bupkis. Nothing really happened, no desktop app revolution kicked off. Unlike the incredibly competitive iOS App Store, the Mac App Store quickly devolved into an Olde Curiosity Shoppe selling $50 applications to Mac customers already used to buying OmniGraffle and the like. But not much else. According to reports its very easy to chart on the Mac App Store but sadly it means very little. The games selection, meanwhile, is incredibly poor with not a single major iOS hit (like Clash of Clans, Candy Crush etc) coming anywhere near it. The current number 1 game has but 75 reviews.Windows was no better. When the bulk of your user base spends all of its time rejecting your snazzy new interface then the little Store pane inside it stands zero chance of being clicked. So, no sales.The other factor weighing heavily against the PC app revolution was developers. I love game (and other kinds) developers but theyre often herd-like.In most developers minds a 0.01% chance of making a billion dollars outweighs a 10% chance of making a million dollars, and this emotion drives their choice ofwhat platforms tosupport. Devsfollow success bias in droves and  for all their vaunted metrics  typically their dataset for making strategic platform decisions is non-existent. So they pile into the same venues as everyone else, even when the conditions in those venues work against them. Their selection comes down to feels of whats hot or not, what narrative is in the ascendance and what is considered gauche.These factors werewhy the desktop app revolution never took off. It was too awkward, the narratives of the day were all about iPhones and the sentiment among devs was that the hot ticket money was to be found in mobile. Even despite numbers showing perfectly healthy install numbers across Mac and PC and stores that lacked for much competition, no studio was willing to really take the plunge and be the Rovio of desktop. At best they went to iOS or Steam  where every last devalready was  and avoided desktop app stores entirely.I was wrong three years ago as a result, but I think Im inching toward being right. And maybe Windows 10 could be the conduit of my rightness.My reasons are these:Really it comes down to whether Microsoft grasps the nettle. Apple isnt likely to shake up its own Mac App Store with El Capita and so Microsoft has a year to kickstart the revolution. It has a year to strike some deals with big providers and convert some well known games to fire interest, then to feature, push and promote the new and improved Windows 10 Store.At some point my feeling about the desktop app revolution will be proven correct. Its just a question of when.