
Dennis Mitzner lives in Tel Aviv and writes about startups and technology trends.Israelistartups look to America for inspiration, money and, of course, exits. But recent events indicate a change in course, at least for Israeli advertising and marketing technology companies that have quietly become global powerhouses.In the last five years, the number of Israeli adtech companieshas tripled. This marked growth in the market, coupled with major acquisitions by the worlds biggest MNCs, such as AOLs purchase of Adapt.tv for $405 Million, makes Israel anadtechhub to watch. That said, we are also seeing a new trend of Israeli adtech companiesscaling up, going public, making savvy acquisitions and differentiating themselves from the pack. The top talent remains Israeli, headquarters remainIsraeliand theIsraelistart-up moxie makes their technology cutting-edge, says Assaf Suprasky, the CEO ofmyThings.The past year alone has witnessed several maneuvers that suggest Israels growing adtech ambitions.Taboola and Outbrain, two dominant content discovery platforms, were both founded in Israel. In December,Taboola became the largest content discovery engine,with more than 1 billion clicks per month, and later in the month,they signeda lucrative multi-million dollar partnership with Die Welt, a digital publication owned by German media giantAxel Springer.Last year, digital marketing companyMatomy Media GroupboughtMobFox, an Austrian mobile-advertising company, for $17.6 million. In April, the company acquired a 70 percent stake inAvenlo, a Canadian performance-email-marketing company. In November, the Tel Aviv-based companybought Optimatic Media Inc., a New York-based video advertising platform, in a deal worth $25 million.In December continuing theIsraeliadtechinvasion  SimilarWeb, a traffic estimator tool based in Tel Aviv,bought Quettra, a mobile analytics and measurement tools provider.Also in December, anotherIsraeliadtechgiant,Perion, took part in the shopping spree by acquiringUndertone, a New York-basedadtechstartup, for $180 million. And last June, the companybought Grow Mobile, a San Francisco-based mobile marketing company.Perions CEO, Josef Mandelbaum, says the reasoning behind these acquisitions is to go from starting up to scaling up:When I joined Perion five years ago, I wanted to build a big company based out of Israel and not look for an exit like so many others. It is great that Israel is known as the Start Up Nation, and I am sure that will continue, but it is time for Israel to also be known as the Scale Up Nation. Obviously that doesnt mean all functions have to be in Israel, in fact many wont, especially as it relates to sales and marketing. However, the corporate headquarters, R&D, Corp Dev, Legal, Finance, etc. can be located here in Israel and we can compete on a global scale. Basically, we bought two companies Grow Mobile and Undertone that have a strong sales and marketing presence and that cant be duplicated in Israel.In addition to enriching investors and shareholders, Mandelbaum points out that Israel, regardless of industry, needs bigcompaniesthat employ locals, but suspects the urge to exit is still strong among startup entrepreneurs.I thinkcompanieslike Teva, NICE and Amdocs have shown the way in their respective industries, but we need more, Mandelbaum, says. TheIsraelieconomy needs more. To continue sustained GDP growth the country needs largercompaniesthat can employ people. It will take time though as the lure of selling is still very strong and in many cases is the purpose.Israeli R&D and technical know-how are usually harnessed to benefit multinationals like Google and Apple, but when it comes toadtech, Israel is banking on local growth.It is certainly happening much more now than in the past. Considering that some of the Israeli adtechcompanieshave matured and positioned themselves among the leaders in their field, it is no surprise we now see such acquisitions, says Assaf Dar, the CTO ofCodeFuel,the engagement and monetization division of Perion.While it might be premature to declare the birth of a new trend,Israelicompaniesare making moves that signal a more daring approach by focusing on long-term success instead of quick exits.I dont know whether we can call it a trend already, but it certainly might happen more frequently now, given that the adtech industry is becoming more dependent on technology and innovation,  Dar added. This means thatAmericanstartups can identify opportunities under such circumstances in terms of being acquired by or merged with a leadingIsraelicompany.Ran Avrahamy, VP of Marketing atAppsFlyer,says that while much ofIsraelitechsuccess is attributed to skills learned at a young age  often during the mandatory army service  adtech draws its success from a number of sources:A majority of Israelis gain experience at a relatively young age solving complex problems quickly and with limited resources.Whats interesting aboutadtechspecifically is that it brings all of these qualities together. As a data-driven industry that is moving at light speed, success in adtech requires an extremely agile operation. Such dynamism in which you try, fail, and then try again until a technological solution is born  and you do it all really fast  is unique toadtechand fits the Israeli mentality like a glove.