
For the first time in about eight years, we saw a decline in the small business customer base ofappdevelopers (in terms of revenueand per-project value). The primary reason citedis the rise of white labels and SDKs. Uber for X toolkits have indeed become a force to reckon with. Small businesses increasingly rely on ready to use frameworks rather than opting for custom development.In early 2015, Iwrote about howSDKs are becoming a key part of building custom apps,and that developersexpected a 25-50 percent increase in the usage of SDKs in thedevelopmentof apps. That has come true.If there is one thing that third-partyappdevelopmentagencies should watch out for in 2016, its the strong headwinds from SDKs and white labels. At least 80 percent of the organizations we surveyed consider apps to be critical for customer engagement/support and revenue growth. Apps are no longer a mere brand presence strategy for enterprises.Evenlarge enterprises that have a thing for customdevelopment have started appreciating the need for tools that play nice with their incumbent IT landscape  and many SDK providers have matured to address that need.Where does the SDK onslaught leave customappdevelopers?A vast majority of undifferentiatedappdevelopmentvendors will face issues with growing their top and bottom lines. That said, both small businesses and large enterprises need a new category ofappdevelopmentvendors that are micro-service integrators.Appdevelopmentis becoming a commodity, but the know-how of running anappbusiness isnt. Thats whereapp developerscan build their sustained competitive moat.Between 70-80 percent of enterpriseswe surveyed shared their intent to retain an agency for deployment, scaling andappmanagement. User analytics andappanalytics are other areas where demand far outstrips supply of specialist agencies. We said this in early 2015: App development agencies that become full-serviceappmanagement consulting firms will survive and scale. For the rest, the proverbial winter is coming  and there wont be a spring that follows.Appdevelopmentrates have been holding steady across the world.U.S.and Western Europe command the highest per-hour rates. Continental and Eastern Europe, along with India, command premium low-cost country rates. New supply markets like Indonesia, Vietnam, etc. are cheaper bases, supplying primarilythe Chinese and Singaporean demand.One exception to this trend is that the rates of super-specialty dev agencies that specialize in building SDKs or have very popular apps/games in their portfolio have been able to increase their premium. We saw a 10-20 percent increase in the top rates. We saw more agencies charging upwards of $175 per hour in the U.S., $40 per hour in India and $60 per hour inEastern Europe. These are agencies that started asappdevelopersand have sincebecome full-service consulting firms.SDKs and white labels are big. The re-allocation of budgets from customdevelopmentto ready frameworks has saved time and cost. So, the price of an SDK has not been a key factor for adoption of an SDK. The same goes for the brand.Features, scalability, ease of use and integration are the most important criteria when it comes to choosing an SDK. With no clear winners in many categories, and an evolving development landscape, decisions on SDKs are made from the perspectives of product roadmap and technology rather than commercials and brand. The recent shutting down of Parse by Facebook would accentuate the buying communitys preference for independent tool makers with astrongproduct vision.Click here for the full report.