Editors note:Tomio Geron is head of content at startupExitround.What is actually required for a startup to get to an M&A? While thepopular image may beFacebook buying Instagramover one weekend, thats not how itusually happens.A select few companies may not do anything to try to sell their companies but still geta callout of the blue and then sell for billions.The vast majority of founders, however, have towork hard for a long period of time to sell their company. And this is not just making a couple calls to potential buyers. So what exactlydoes this entail? Somrat Niyogi, who has founded and sold Miso and Stitch, and worked at several other startups, describes this as a long-term process.From early on in a startups life, founders should have at least some idea of potential buyers for their company. Just as that sales pipeline can be the lifeline of your companys growth and future, this CRM for potentialM&A can ensure your future via M&A.Sales often requires close attention paid to a pipeline and regular engagement with prospects. That same idea applies to these potential M&A prospects.You should have a plan treat it with all the care andfocus as you would with the sales pipeline for your company, Niyogi says.Like many salespeople do, create a spreadsheet of the potential companies that could be best buyers. Then list all the contacts you haveat those companies, as well as contacts you dont know but can be introduced to.Niyogi color codes them with red, yellow or green based on where they are in the sales pipeline process. Once you have all the people on the list, prioritize them in terms of who are the most important to reach first and who can wait for later. (Niyogi also shares this document with his investors.)With that framework, you can go about chipping away at that list.You want to find ways to regularly stay in touch with these contacts, ideally every 60 to 90 days  though this depends on your situation. Haveconstant touch points, Niyogi says. Find excuses to talk to each other.Getting to know buyers is a complex multi-step process. It isnt just getting to know one person. You have to play detective/sociologist/anthropologist to get to know the organization. While many people inacompany work on a deal, the actual power to make a final decision often rests with a small number of executives  your goal is to get to know them.The closer you get to them, the better.So your task as a founder or CEO is to connect with anyone in the company who can help connect you to those top executives. You may only know a mid-level product or engineering person,but that person can connect you with others in the company.He or she can also give you key insights into the company, such as how product or engineering decisions are made or how resources are allocated.Founders will say to me, I got inbound interest! Thats awesome, but does that guy have any authority to do anything? And who does that person report to? You want totalk to the person at the highestlevel possibleatevery potential acquirer, Niyogi says.Next, figure out who the key influencers are at the buying company. Top executives will go to the key voices for advice on major decisions, such as an acquisition. You want those people to know you and have a positive thing to say. Theinfluencers are not alwaysdefined by the org chart. They can be a key senior engineer,an early employee or a founder. Figuring this out can be difficult, but as you talk to more and more people at the company, you will be able to piece together the puzzle. Youll also have a better sense of how decisions are made and who actually wields power there.Think of this as creating astructural analysis of an organization. Just as acivil engineer would do a structural evaluation of a buildingto assess its sturdiness, you want to understand the power centers,pressure pointsand weaknesses in a company.This political/sociological/anthropological analysis is what people in politicized organizations, such as government entities, large corporations or large nonprofits, do in their everyday jobsif they want to survive and thrive. You have to do it from the outside.Its just like selling, Niyogi says. Are you talking to a decision maker?Who are the other influencers in the company?In these big companies you needa plan.Then youtry to connect the dots.One way to get to know a company is through a partnership. While talking or working with them, you can show how you add value for the potential buyer. Partnerships can also turn to deeper collaboration. But a partnershipdoesnt have to be elaborate. It can be a simple co-marketing agreement. You want a way to get in there and have a conversation, Niyogi says.This is an excuse to engage in dialogue.The key to this whole process is relationships. This may not come naturally for some founders, especially those who are laser-focused on engineering and product.One little-discussed aspect of M&A: Buyers want to buy people they like. Not just companies or products. People. If someone buys you, they want to hang out with you. If they have their choice, its going to besomeone they like. Itmay not be socially acceptable to say. But its a fact,Niyogi says.You want to have so many relationships with a company that youre in conversations with when youre not even in the room, Niyogi says. If there are 10 executives in the room talking about your product, and one person says hes heard of your company, you want another person to say he knows you, then another one.If four of the 10are interested in you, it may dawn on them to buy you. Thats what you want. The hardest part is when youre not even in the conversation, he says.You want to have relationships with potential buyers long before you enter into any sort of M&A conversationswith them. This willgive you options in the event that you decide to sell orreally need to sell, youll have people who will pick up your call. At some point you may have to make a call.Youwantthemto care.If you havent built a relationshipand say Oh my god Ive got to sellandstart making calls, its too late, Niyogi says.So how do you handle corporate development if your objective is to get to the real decision maker or highest person possible, but the corp dev executiveis not that person? Some suggest avoiding corp dev, but corp dev executives are just doing their difficult job, Niyogi says. They have many of the same challenges you do.They can also be helpful in connecting you with those you want to meet. Corp dev also sometimes has abusiness development function that could be useful for you.Some people feel its a waste of time to meet corp dev.If youre really busy and have no interest whatsoever or its a bad time, you can say, Thanks so much for getting in touch. Id love to chat in a few months. Also, you can ask, Im curious why youre reaching out? Whats the nature of you reaching out? Are youacquisitive or what are you trying to accomplish? These are fair questions.If and when startups get to the point of negotiating acquisition terms, many have to make difficult decisions. For smaller acquisitions (which make up the majority of all deals), startups dont generate large returns for investors, so there often are choices about who gets what proportion of the total value of the acquisition.Startup CEOs and founders often have to choose between investors, employees and themselves. People have different opinions on whether investors or employees should be taken care of first, but either way, Niyogi believes the founders should take care of themselves last. The team took a risk joining you. The investors gave you the opportunity. Youshouldalways be on the bottom of that list.This decisioncansometimes be exacerbated by buyers who want to cut investors or employees out of the deal.So founders should already have a plan of who gets prioritized. An acquirer may say, Hey we want to give you a lot but the investors wont get anything.Another one says Well take care of the investors butnot theteam. So youhave to already have a framework in mind.Niyogi alsohas a warning: Every action you take and decision you make at this time will be remembered. People will remember how things endedat your startup  investors, employees and colleagues.You want to be remembered as generous and gratefulto others for helping you with your startup.It doesnt matter how great of an outcome you created. Youll be remembered for how you handled the transaction and how you treated thepeople impacted, he says. Theway you communicated, negotiated and how you really listened to everyone.If you want a lasting career in entrepreneurship, you should play the long game and treat everyone with respect, Niyogi says. People will remember that andwill help you make your next startup even better than your current one.