Stop me if youve heard this one. Founder of company leaves to start another company. Comes back a few times. Takes role of Interim CEO and starts personally doing customer support for celebrities. Havent heard that one? OK, well then check this out.The other day, one Kim Kardashian (powerhouse app developer) PERSONALLY emailed Twitter and complained about the lack of editing support for tweets. You know, that feature that only famous people ask for because they constantly fuck up and say things that come back to haunt them? Yeah, that feature.After a while she gets a personal responsefrom the previously mentioned Interim CEO Jack Dorsey!@KimKardashian great idea! We're always looking at ways to make things faster and easier. Jack (@jack) July 25, 2015Response time? About a half hour. Not bad, Jack. Not bad.Mind you, Kardashian does have 33M followers so its a pretty good show for Dorsey to respond personally. She was pretty excited to hear back, too:My love  pic.twitter.com/BxWj5NAiEY Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) July 24, 2015Oh wait, that was a smoochy pic with Kanye. Here it is:Thank you @Jack #FounderOfTwitterUnderstands !!!  https://t.co/SzCM03xAH2 Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) July 25, 2015EVERYONE IS HAPPY!
(Ugh, #FounderOfTwitterUnderstands. Why is everything a hashtag?)Imma let you finish, Kimbut Taylor Swift had the best demand aimed at a company of all timeall time.If this really happens, the edit feature that is, an exciting part of Twitter will die. That true real-time, off-the-cuff nature of the service will flush down the toilet. Yes, people say stupid shit all of the time on Twitter. Sometimes its even news. Being able to go back and edit a tweet opens up a gigantic can of worms: Is there an edit log?
 Can you go back and edit the contents of old tweets?
 Does the tweet get tagged as edited ala a post on Facebook?
 Etc. Etc.Kim doesnt want to edit tweets, she wants to erase the stupid things she says. The others lining up for this feature? Politicians and others in the limelight. We watch live TV because something crazy or stupid might happen. Its not edited. Ever watch something with a few second delay? It sucks. I personally dont want Twitter-on-delay.Ohters might, I guess:Also, these arent the kind of features that get your company to 500M users, its the type of feature that you think about when youre afraid of losing the ones you haveespecially the famous ones with 33 million followers.Its good to see Jack being active on Twitter, but I hope that his daily docket doesnt include celebrity feature requests and is full of ways to bring Twitter to the masses once and for all.Oh, also to take another company public.