Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has confirmed the departures of Twitter execs, who oversaw the product, engineering, media and HR teams.Was really hoping to talk to Twitter employees about this later this week, but want to set the record straight now: pic.twitter.com/PcpRyTzOlW Jack (@jack) January 25, 2016In a statement, posted to Twitter on Sunday, Dorsey wrote:Im sad to announce that Alex Roetter, Skip Schipper, Katie Stanton, and Kevin Weil have chosen to leave the company. Alex and Kevin, both here over five years, scaled the ads product and engineering teams from producing near-zero revenue to the over-$2 billion run rate it is todayAfter 7 incredible years, I'm moving on from Twitter. Next up: @elizabeth, @thirdweil, and some long trail runs. Also, GO TEAM!  Kevin Weil (@kevinweil) January 25, 2016Dorsey addedthat COO Adam Bain and CTO Adam Messinger will be taking on additional responsibilities. Bain will oversee the revenue-related product teams, the media team, and the HR team on an interim basis. Messinger will combine engineering, design, user services and Fabric into one group.Dorsey said that Messinger has a very strong sense of how to bring our development together so we can continue to ship faster and producer stronger work that people will love to use. And I will be partnering with him day and night to make sure were building the right experiences.Jason Toff, who served as GM of Vine, also announced his departure on Sunday evening.Personal update! I'm joining Google to work on VR. So much exciting potential there. Jason Toff (@jasontoff) January 25, 2016Twitter closed at $17.84 on Friday, about a quarter of its record high of $69 seen in January 2014. Investors once valued Twitter as the next Facebook, but the social media companys slowed user growth has dampened expectations.Co-founder Jack Dorsey was named permanent CEO of Twitter in October, following the departure of Dick Costolo last summer. Dorsey is seen as a visionary, and has been tasked with improving Twitters product.Dorseys other company, Square, where he is also CEO, has been struggling to keep its stock afloat. The digital payments company went public in November and some say the dual roles are unmanageable .Twitter also announced layoffs in October, reducing its workforce by 8%. Its likely that there will be continued changes at Twitter in the coming months. The news of the Twitter executive departures was first reported by Re/Code.Re/Code is also reporting that the company is hiring a new CMO.