Some more M&A afoot in the media industry. Pearson has sold the Financial Times Group to Japans Nikkei Inc for 844 million ($1.3 billion) in cash. The news comes aftera morning offervent speculation that the Financial Times was on the block, with some speculating that Axel Springer would be the buyer.In addition to the iconic pink newspaper, the group includes the FT.com website,How to Spend It, FT Labs, FTChinese, the Confidentials and Financial Publishing (which includesThe Banker, Investors Chronicle, MandateWire, Money-Media, Medley Global Advisors and more).It willnot include Pearsons 50 percent stake in the economist or the FTs offices on the banks of the River Thames in London. However this sale will lead to questions about the future of those assets, too, especially as Pearson itself has said that going forward it will focus on its education business.Pearson has been a proud proprietor of the FT for nearly 60 years. But weve reached an inflection point in media, driven by the explosive growth of mobile and social, saidJohn Fallon, Pearsons CEO, in a statement. In this new environment, the best way to ensure the FTs journalistic and commercial success is for it to be part of a global, digital news company.Pearson will now be 100% focused on our global education strategy, he continued. The world of education is changing profoundly and we see huge opportunity to grow our business through increasing access to high quality education globally.The FT is not the UKs largest newspaper  it has a circulation of737,000, up 30 percent in the last five years, with digital accounting for 70 percent of that currently. But it is one of the most prestigious, in particular among the financial community that is also targeted by Nikkei.The company had sales of $519 million (334 million) in 2014, Pearson says.While Pearson is turning its attention to education publishing and education services, Nikkei is a logical new parent for the FT. The Japanese company already publishes its own eponymous newspaper and has been looking for ways to expand its footprint into markets further afield  not unlike other Japanese companies like Rakuten, which has also been making acquisitions outside of its home market.I am extremely proud of teaming up with the Financial Times, one of the most prestigious news organizations in the world, saidTsuneo Kita, chairman and group CEO of Nikkei, in a statement. Our motto of providing high-quality reporting on economic and other news, while maintaining fairness and impartiality, is very close to that of the FT. We share the same journalistic values. Together, we will strive to contribute to the development of the global economy.Nikkei may not have the same global presence and reputation as the Financial Times, but the two share plenty in common  most notably, a paywall.The 140-year-old Japanese media companys core publication is the Nikkei Online Edition. The five-year-old business, which puts out short bulletins and news in Japanese, claims an impressive paying customer base of more than 400,000 subscribers.That said, the organization has been criticized for churning out financial and business-focused news with little interest in investigative stories, which in recent times has included important work related to the nuclear fallout from the 2011 Japanese tsunamiand, more recently, this years scandal around the Takata airbag defects.https://twitter.com/HirokoTabuchi/status/624226717721214977https://twitter.com/HirokoTabuchi/status/624228350958043137The Nikkei has also ventured into internationally focused content with the Nikkei Asian Review, which is both online and a weekly print magazine.Many Japanese corporates are squarely focused on the domestic market, but Nikkei has ventured into Southeast Asia with an editorial base in Bangkok, Thailand, and the launch of Nikkei Group Asia, a Singapore-based entity launched last year that is charged with regionalizing the companys content across the continent.Nikkei President Naotoshi Okada has spoken of his desire to grow the companys presence overseas  those two aforementioned offices doubled its number of reporters stationed outside of Japan  while the company is aiming to increase the number of females in its managerial team to 15 percent by 2020.Our goal is nothing short of making Nikkei the leading media voice in Asia, Okada said in a statement on the media companys website.The acquisition of the FT Group follows speculation that Axel Springer was reportedlyinterested in buying the Huffington Post from AOL, which itself was acquired by Verizon earlier this year for $4.4 billion.Announcement below:
Pearson to sell FT Group to Nikkei Inc.Pearson is today announcing that it has agreed the sale of FT Group to Nikkei Inc. for a gross consideration of 844 million, payable in cash.Financial Times is one of the worlds leading news organisations, recognised for its authority, integrity and accuracy. It includes the FT newspaper, FT.com, How to Spend It, FT Labs, FTChinese, the Confidentials and Financial Publishing (including The Banker, Investors Chronicle, MandateWire, Money-Media, Medley Global Advisors and more). At the FT, total circulation across print and digital rose more than 30% over the last five years to 737,000, with digital circulation growing to represent 70% of the total, from 24%, and mobile driving almost half of all traffic. Content and services now account for the majority of revenues.In 2014, FT Group contributed 334m of sales and 24m of adjusted operating income to Pearson. At 30 June 2015, FT Group had gross assets of approximately 250m. The agreement does not include FT Groups London property at One Southwark Bridge and Pearsons 50% stake in The Economist Group. The transaction is subject to a number of regulatory approvals and is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2015.A contribution will be made to the Pearson group pension plan following closing of the transaction, expected to be around 90m. In addition, Pearson has committed to fund the pension plan to self-sufficiency in the near term. Most of the proceeds from the disposal will be subject to UK Substantial Shareholder Exemption taxation relief but Pearson expects to pay tax on disposal of approximately 60 million. The balance of the proceeds will be used by Pearson for general corporate purposes and investment in its global education strategy.John Fallon, Pearsons chief executive, said:Pearson has been a proud proprietor of the FT for nearly 60 years. But weve reached an inflection point in media, driven by the explosive growth of mobile and social. In this new environment, the best way to ensure the FTs journalistic and commercial success is for it to be part of a global, digital news company.Pearson will now be 100% focused on our global education strategy. The world of education is changing profoundly and we see huge opportunity to grow our business through increasing access to high quality education globally.Nikkei has a long and distinguished track record of quality, impartiality and reliability in its journalism and global viewpoint. The Board and I are confident that the FT will continue to flourish under Nikkeis ownership.Tsuneo Kita, Chairman and Group CEO of Nikkei, said:I am extremely proud of teaming up with the Financial Times, one of the most prestigious news organizations in the world. Our motto of providing high-quality reporting on economic and other news, while maintaining fairness and impartiality, is very close to that of the FT. We share the same journalistic values. Together, we will strive to contribute to the development of the global economy.Evercore, Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan Cazenove acted as financial adviser to Pearson on this transaction.Rothschild Group acted as financial advisers to Nikkei on this transaction.
