Just a day after announcing a $50 million round of funding, Internet performance management company Dyn is revealingtheres been a change in leadership  co-founder Jeremy Hitchcock is stepping down as CEO.Ive done a nice and effective job of getting the company from A to B, but now Im thinking about helping the company get from B to C, Hitchcock told me. In terms of day-to-day leadership, Ive made the decision that Im not the best person for this specific role.Jim Baum, who was previously chief executive at Netezza and Endeca, is taking over those day-to-day operations  but hes not taking the title of CEO. Instead, hell continue to serve as executive chairman and work with Dyns board of directors to develop a long-term leadership strategy. Presumably, that meansfinding a new CEO, but Baum said theres no big rush on that front, and that they wont make an abrupt, rash decision.Baum and Hitchcock both emphasized that this was very much Hitchcocks decision, not something that was forced on him. After all, he started the initial DynDNS service in his dorm room at Worcester Polytechnic Institute back in 2001, and hes helped the company launch a broader suite of products for managing website availability, security and speed. The company projects that it will reach annualized recurring revenue of $100 million later this year.Weve all seen these things unfold over time, Baum said. I think theres nothing unusual here about Jeremys decision. Whats unusual is, Ill say the grace with which were able to execute this.  When its not a founders decision, you tend not to have this continuity of leadership. You tend to have a big disruption that causes the company to miss several beats. Thats not whats happening here at all.At the same time, Hitchcock said he will remain on Dyns board and also will remain a full-time employee with the simple title of founder. Moving forward, hell be focused on possible expansion areas, whether thats new geographies or new ways to use Dyns data.Im excited about how Ill play this very interdisciplinary role in uncovering some of the value there and mainstreaming some of those opportunities into what Dyn can become, he said.