A strange new battleover valuable startup equity took another step forward late this afternoon.Jeremy Guillory, a Bay Area mechanical engineer, has filed a cross-complaint against 2.5-year-old Cruise Automation and its longtime CEO, Kyle Vogt. At issue: Guillory saysthat theself-driving car company which developedan autopilot system for existing cars and is being acquired by General Motors for reportedly north of $1 billion  ischeating him out of his rightful50 percent ownership stake in the business, which he says he helped form. (In legalese, Guilloryis accusing Vogt and Cruiseof promissory estoppel, conversion, unjust enrichment and accounting.)You knew this counter-claim wascoming yesterday, when the president of Y Combinator, Sam Altman, tried to get ahead of things publicly in a blog post.As you may have read then,Altman, who has known Vogt for years and whose accelerator programprovidedCruise its first check, acknowledged that Gillory collaborated withKyle for a very short period early on in the life of Cruise.Some time in the weeks since GM announced it was buying the company in mid March, Guillory requested a percentageof Vogts equity in the company, even though, according to Altman, Kyle and Jeremy parted ways after roughly onemonth of working together. This event happened more than two years ago, and well before the company had achieved much of anything.The matter was private at first, with Vogt making what Altman described as an extremely generous offer to settle this claim, presumably to keep it from derailing Cruises acquisition.When Guillory didntaccepted Vogts offer by a deadline last Friday, Vogt hired thelaw firm Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffeto sueGuillory for so-called declaratory relief.Guillorys new cross-complaint seems to confirm Altmansaccount from yesterday (which itself echoesVogts suit).The filingacknowledges thatGuillory and Vogt first met in mid October 2013 and began working on Cruise. By October 21,2013, they had submitted an application to Y Combinator, whose deadline that year wasOctober 31.By November 7, 2013, after the duo had been accepted into the accelerator, Vogt told Guillory that he no longer wanted to work together.Guillorys attorneysnote that on that print application to YC, Guillory and Vogt list themselves as co-founders and 50 percent shareholders of Cruise.That seems to be the only documentation Guillory has to support his claim, along with this one-minute video, which Guillory and Vogt also submitted as part of their application. Whether its enough could determine whether or not Guillory is entitled to up to hundreds of millions of dollars.In Vogts earliersuit against Guillory, it states that after Mr. Vogt had already founded Cruise, he and Guillory exchanged various emails and correspondences where they discussed a potential collaboration in working to develop Cruise.Vogts complaint says that, Despite these early conversations, by mid-November 2013, it became clear that Mr. Vogt and Mr. Guillory had personalities and visions that were not compatible and the two decided not to pursue any collaboration on Cruise. After this decision, Jeremy never participated in or contributed to any Cruise business.Indeed, it says, onNovember 19, Vogt interviewedalone with Y Combinators partners. It says Guillory did not pay for any equity interest in Cruise; receive any stock options in Cruise; write code for any technology being developed by Cruise; or draft, file, or create any patents for the tech that was beingdeveloped by Cruise.Guillory lists himself on his LinkedIn page as having spent the last four years consulting on various projects, including designingthe first open source hexacopter frame. In previous years, according to his profile, he has assisted numerousaccelerator programs with fundraising and deal evaluation.He has notresponded to requests for comment.In the meantime,investors are rushing to Vogts defense.In addition to Altman, early Cruise investor Eric Paley of Founder Collective told us yesterday via email that: While Im not at liberty to speak for the company on the details of the lawsuit, Mr. Guillorys claim is completely frivolous. Kyle Vogt is a person of exceptional integrity.Ive known Kyle since he was a college student, when he was an MIT undergrad interning at my startup. In the eight years since, hes been a model citizen of the startup world and truly one of the best entrepreneurs of the last decade  founding two billion-dollar companies.Vogthad previouslyco-founded the social video platform Twitch, which sold to Amazon for $1.1 billion in August 2014.ContinuedPaley, We were proud to be one of the first investors in Cruise and to back Kyles vision. I first discussed Cruise with Kyle when he was on the starting line and never met Jeremy Guillory or even heard his name. Our investment decision was made entirely on the basis of Kyles personal credibility, his track record as a technologist, and his vision for the future. I cant comment on the specifics of the case, but Id proudly back Kyle again.