Jitterbit,an enterprise software companywhose cloud-based app integration platform is used by some 35,000 customers to knit together disparateapps, is today announcing a $20 million round of funding led by KKR. The funding will be used for hiring, to build out Jitterbitsproducts for specific verticals and to grow the business as the itmoves towards an eventual public listing, according to its CEO.We expect to get to an IPO in three years, GeorgeGallegos told TechCrunch.Relatively speaking,Jitterbitis no spring chicken: its been around since 2005, building open source tools for companies that want to integrate apps that dont necessarily work together, tapping into the kind of integration and aggregation of app silos that companies like Slack are currently using to dazzling effect. This is the companysfirst significant round of funding.KKR was chosen after a period where more than 50 VCs knocked on Jitterbits door to talk investment, Gallegos said. The company went with KKR because things seemed to click with the firm.Its one thing to take money and another to find someone to work well with, Gallegos said. KKRwas the first firm where we found close alignment of our business goals.While KKR may be better known asone of the giants in the private equity world  it currently has $14 billion of equity across60 companies  this investment is a mark of a somewhat newer direction for the finance company, investing in earliergrowthrounds for startups as they gear up for more expansion.Overthe past 18 months, KKR has made a concerted effort to look at smaller and faster growing startups in the telecoms media and tech space where we think there is interesting opportunities, Vincent Letteri, the KKR director who will join Jitterbits board, said in an interview with TechCrunch. We still think we are at the early stage of technology, where itis starting to impact every industry in the world.He describesthe businesses that KKR isinvesting in ashigh growth andscaling.They are through the technical risk phase of developing a product or service, and they are generating revenues and are potentially more at an operational risk from scaling challenges, he added. That is something we can help manage. There is no specific fund at KKR dedicated to earlier-stage startup investments, he said: the money comes off KKRs balance sheet, making it potentially one of the bigger startup investors should it choose to pursue that more aggressively. (Previous investments in startups have included DoubleDutch, Ping Identity and ClickTale.) And for the record, I asked about Ubers latest round (how can you not?), and got a firm no-comment both from Letteri and his PR manager who had been silent until that point on the call.Turning back to Jitterbit, the company is not disclosing revenues nor valuation in this round, and Gallegossaid that it is still unprofitable by choice.But there are some encouraging numbers it is providing. Its products which range from general solutions for small businesses through to products built for specific verticals like healthcare  currently have an average churn rate of 10% (commendable for an SaaS product). And theybring in annual revenues of anywhere between $10,000 to $1 million annually from its wide range ofcustomers, which span fromSMBs using its more general Harmony platform through to Chrysler, Shell, Jim Beam and Time Warner taking more bespoke or specialised services.The vogue for cloud-based apps and platforms to manage them better has undoubtedly spawned a number of competitors for Jitterbit, with some lists of similar productsdaunting in their size. Gallegos notes that some of the most prominent include Boomi from Dell and Mulesoft. Gallegos says that up to now one of Jitterbitsunique selling point has been its ability to create solutions that are especially helpful to specific verticals.