WeChat bots are huge in China. The machine-powered being thatMicrosoftrunson Chinas most popular messaging app has 20 million followers alone  and it is a cult hero  whichshows thatmessaging isnt just about chatting to your friends.Why not use it to find a job or practice your interview technique? Thats what Jobot, a creation from this weekends TechCrunch Disrupt Hackathon, aims to do.The service uses WeChat, the hugely popular Chinese messaging appwith over half a billion monthly users. Its essentially a chatbot that asses the best kind of company a user should work for using questions, powered by IBM Watson, todevelop personality insights like culture fit and sentiment, for each user. The idea is thatinformation gleaned from users can help them find the right cultural match in a future employer.Not only does it let job finders seek outpotential employers, but also helps them practice responses to the kinds of questions that theyll be asked during the recruitment process.Jobot uses an automated system to manage questions based on each answer, but David Collier, one of the brains behind the service, said that a human could easily step into the process at any point. That might be usefulonce the formulaic questions are out of the way anda recruiter wants more specific information. Likewise, Collier told TechCrunch that companies themselves could get involved in the project to seek out specific types of hires, entry-level positions for which interns might be best suited.Right now, the service is a work in progress  for one thing it isnt an official bot. Aside from fixing that, Collier said there are plans to tweak theanalytics to give companies the option to use Jobot for prescreening purposes. An admin dashboard and potential integrations with Glassdoor and LinkedIn are also on the cards.With 1.1 billionusers on WeChat, we can safely say there are great things in store. People already have chat integrated into their daily lives  we plan to capitalize on that, Collier, who has an English learning app forWeChat and works with other messaging apps, said.