Here we go! Weve finalized the event space, have collected some great sponsors, and were ready to rumble. But youd best hurry because tickets are almost out and when we hit 200 were not going to add any more. Well see you in Barcelona!Heres whats up: were holding a Meetup and Pitch-off in Barcelona on March 3rd and we want you there. Well be doing some amazing drinking, some amazing pitching, and some amazing networking. Multiple TechCrunch writers will attend and well all have a blast.Date: Tuesday March 3, 2015
Time: 19:00  22:00. Pitch-off at 20:00.
Details: With open bar and tapas/snacks between 19:30 until 21:30 CET (last round).
Location: Ailaic, Passatge Utset 14, we will team up with the Dutch Mobile Networking Event that is the host.
Cost: 5.50BUY TICKETS HEREEveryone is invited!Thanks to the kind folks at DutchMobileNetworking this years Barcelona Meetup And Pitch-Off will be amazing. Its great to have such a responsive and understanding partner. That said, they are handling all the sponsorship and still need your help. Please email myself at john@techcrunch.com or Caroline at caroline at dutchmobilenetworking.com.Want to pitch to investors and tech folks? Sign up here. I will pick six companies to pitch for about an hour. Contestants will have two minutes to pitch and four minutes of questions from TC Editors and a local judge. The winner will get a table at TC Disrupt Startup Alley in New York and the runner-up will get two tickets to the event. I will notify those who are picked on February 20.Gold SponsorVserv is a leading mobile marketing platform that delivers smart data led results to marketers, app developers, telcos and data partners. Powered by its award winning market first technologies, the company drives engaging mobile experiences for the emerging billion mobile internet users. Founded in 2010; Vserv has 500 million+ unique user profiles and a global footprint with offices across USA, UK, South Africa, India, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines & Vietnam. Drinks SponsorExoClick is a self-funded start-up launched in 2006 by CEO Benjamin Fonz which he now runs with his brother Adrien (COO). Based in Barcelona, Spain, ExoClick is an innovative global ad network serving 125+ billion geo-targeted ads a month to web and mobile advertiser/publisher platforms via its proprietary software. The company is currently ranked as the 5th largest ad network in the world by W3Techs and is the only Spanish company to be ranked three times in the Deloitte Fast 500. ExoClick is also positioned at number 11 in the Top 20 Best Workplaces in Spain in the category of companies with between 20-49 employees (PYMES).
Backed by Andreessen-Horowitz, Samsung, Intel and others, BlueStacks is the leader in Mobile Marketing Automation. Started in 2011 and based in Silicon Valley, the company has offices in London, Tokyo and Beijing. BlueStacks App Player software enables any mobile app or game to run on PC. Pre-loaded on Lenovo and Asus computers, App Player recently crossed 85 million downloads worldwide. Download it today atWould you like to sponsor our event? Please contact Caroline dutchmobilenetworking.com. She has helped organize the entire event so far and is handling the food, drink, and jazz (!!). We look forward to seeing you!