You may have noticed a few posts about our Barcelona Mini-Meetup and Pitch-Off over the past week and it looks like weve finally nailed down a location and time. Forget everything you heard so far. Heres the real information. Note: to offset the cost of the space and food, were charging 5.50. The previous RSVP list is not valid so please buy a ticket if you intend to come.Date: Tuesday March 3, 2015
Time: 19:00  22:00. Pitch-off at 20:00.
Details: With open bar and tapas/snacks between 19:30 until 21:30 CET (last round).
Location: Ailaic, Passatge Utset 14, we will team up with the Dutch Mobile Networking Event that is the host.
Cost: 5.50BUY TICKETS HEREEveryone is invited!Thanks to the kind folks at DutchMobileNetworking this years Barcelona Meetup And Pitch-Off will be amazing. Its great to have such a responsive and understanding partner. That said, they are handling all the sponsorship and still need your help. Please email myself at john@techcrunch.com or Caroline at caroline at dutchmobilenetworking.com.Want to pitch to investors and tech folks? Sign up here. I will pick six companies to pitch for about an hour. Contestants will have two minutes to pitch and four minutes of questions from TC Editors and a local judge. The winner will get a table at TC Disrupt Startup Alley in New York and the runner-up will get two tickets to the event. I will notify those who are picked in the next week.Drinks SponsorExoClick is a self-funded start-up launched in 2006 by CEO Benjamin Fonz which he now runs with his brother Adrien (COO). Based in Barcelona, Spain, ExoClick is an innovative global ad network serving 125+ billion geo-targeted ads a month to web and mobile advertiser/publisher platforms via its proprietary software. The company is currently ranked as the 4th largest ad network in the world by W3Techs and is the only Spanish company to be ranked three times in the Deloitte Fast 500. ExoClick is also positioned at number 11 in the Top 20 Best Workplaces in Spain in the category of companies with between 20-49 employees (PYMES).Would you like to sponsor our event? Please contact Caroline at caroline[at] dutchmobilenetworking.com. She has helped organize the entire event so far and is handling the food, drink, and jazz (!!). We look forward to seeing you!