Another security-focused development in the European mobile space: Finnishmobile startup Jolla, which develops theSailfish mobile OS and its own brand mobile hardware, has just announced it will be partnering to create a security hardened versionof the platform, called Sailfish Secure.Jolla says it will be working with FinlandsSSH Communications to offer another version of its platform withstronger security credentials. The partnershipwas announced today at Jollas press conference in Barcelona at the Mobile World Congress trade show. SSH will be providing comms encryption and key management to Sailfish Secure.A spokesman for Jolla told TechCrunch the timeframe for a launchof Sailfish Secure will depend onend-customer needs, but he added that the aim is to have it ready to goduring 2016.Jolla added:The Sailfish Secure approach will allow solution concept adaptation to e.g. local needs, and also collaboration with other security partners. End customers like governments or large corporations are able to adapt the solution to their preferred hardware platform, i.e. the solution is not tied to aspecific hardware configuration.Jolla is not the only mobile startup eyeing security. The move follows the launch last year of a security-hardened Android device, called Blackphone, made by Silent Circle and Geeksphone  a joint venture based out of Switzerland.The sequel to the original Blackphone hasalsojust been announced at MWC today. Lastweek Silent Circle revealed it had taken ina new $50 million funding roundand bought out its JV partner  setting out a partial pivot to focus more fully on theenterprise space. Its raised $80 million since last May to scale upBlackphone.Jolla is evidently seeing similar opportunities here, with security and privacy rising up corporate and consumer agendas in the wake of multipledigital security scandals  whether its overreaching government surveillance programs, malicious hacking of corporate IT systems or high profile online security vulnerabilities.Customers for the solution can include government officials, and corporations needing a secure mobile solution. The aim is also to make the solution affordable for consumers, Jollasaid in itspress release about Sailfish Secure.On the government side, the Russian Federation, ever wary of U.S. spying, recently gave apublic show of support to alternative mobile platforms singling outSailfish for praise (along with Tizen) for not being made in the U.S. and for being open source.(NB: Although Sailfish is built on the open source Mer project, which is an extension of MeeGo, soconsists of a number of open source components, the Sailfish UI remains proprietary  so its not fully open sourced at this point.)Jolla is keen to play up this made in Europedifferentiating factor  as a way to pluck a string thatGoogles Android cant.Its press release notes:The Sailfish Secure project is based on the premise that currently there are no European
alternatives for secure mobile communication to Android or other US based operating systems. This gives Jolla and Sailfish OS a unique position to enter the market and create an alternative solution to Android.It is evident that theworld needs a secure, transparent and open mobile solution alternative, which is not controlled byany country or major industry player. Together with leading security expert SSH CommunicationsSecurity we are aiming to create an open European mobile solution running on Sailfish OS. We arealso inviting other industry players to join the initiative, addedAntti Saarnio, co-founder and chairman of the board of Jolla in a statement.Jollas calls forpartners extends to its Sailfish OS Alliance with a broad invitationtodayforOEMs, ODMs, and leading internet, eCommerce, andcontent players to join and supportits platform, and a directappeal forregional players to help co-develop a European mobile OS alternative:By joining the alliance, partners will get a privilegedlicense to Sailfish OS to build an own unique mobile offering, and to take full advantage of theflexibility and versatile features of Sailfish OS. Jolla also invites regional internet leaders from Russia, India, China and Japan to co-develop a strong local mobile ecosystem and to create a true, independent and competitive alternative to Android.Also today, Jolla noted thatthe next versionof its mainlineSailfish OS, Sailfish 2.0  which includes support for tablet form factors  is now available for OEMs to license. And it says it isworking with Intel to add support foritsAtomTM x3CPUs.Jolla has been crowdfunding its own brand tablet. It said theJolla Tablet is expected to arrive inthe market inthe second quarter of this year.