Hardware is always hard. Butif youre playing atthe margins of a mobile ecosystemdominated by Android and iOS, well, its best described as a bloodbath. To wit: Finlands Jolla, which makes its own mobile OS Sailfish and  previously  its own mobile devices too, has confirmed that itscrowdfunded tablet is being canned.The Jolla Tablet project started as an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign, back inNovember 2014, which went on to raise more than $2.5 million from some 21,600 backers. The overly optimistic estimated shipping schedule for the slate was the following year. Instead,Jolla was showing off unreleased hardwareatthe MWC trade show last spring whereTechCrunch got hands on.Andbackers were leftwaiting for the rest of 2015.Writing in a blog updateon the tablet late last week, Jolla co-founder and chairman Antti Saarnio confirmed that only a very small number of backers will now get a tablet (540 units will ship, starting from February). He said the rest of the backers will get a refund  although this process may take up to a year.Jollaaims torefund the total contribution, including shipping and all accessories. Due to the financial constraints this will happen in two parts: half of the refund will be done during Q1/2016, and the other half within a year, our financial situation permitting, he writes.Last November Jolla was forced to cut half its staff and restructure its debts after failing to secure new funding to continue operating the business. And although it subsequently closed a Series C the damage to supply chain relationships had evidently already been done.So while, lastNovember, Saarnio was still suggesting there would not bea huge impact on shipping the tablet if Jolla went on tosecure its finances before the end of the year, by December he admitted itwas considering its options  including canceling the tablet.This is a quite challenging situation because its not linear what is the harm done on the tablet program, he told TechCrunch at the time. Its something that if you delay or stop working with your production partner for a couple of months it basically means that its difficult to [re]start the process as well.Due to the delays in the latest financing round it has simply become too late to produce all the tablets for the project.Thesupplier no longer has the needed components and many of them are no longer available. Unfortunately, there is nothing that can be done now to change this, writesSaarnio now.So chalk up another tale of failed crowdfunding, and a salutary lesson that when it comes to hardware crowdfunding expecting delays (at the very least) is always wise.At least Jolla is being thorough in its communications, with an updated FAQ on its blog answering backers questions.One of these questions asks what the future of its Sailfish alternative mobile OS looks like. Jolla says it has been able to continue development after receiving its Series C funding in December, butit also notes finances remain tight at this point. So theres little doubt that Jolla still has tough times ahead of it.We are currently receiving significant interest from different mobile industry players to license the operating system. One of the publicly announced projects is the community driven Fairphone project, but there are many other negotiations going on and Sailfish OS is gradually taking steps to become an OS used by multiple device vendors. However, Jolla is still very tight financially and is currently negotiating with its creditors for extended payment terms so that all the available financial resources could be efficiently used to secure the needed OS development.(You can read more about the Jolla-Fairphone community project here.)Last summerJolla was alreadyseeming topivot away from hardware, announcing it would split into two with its first order of businessbeingsoftware  and a vague plan to create a second business to build hardware. That businesshas yet to materialize  unsurprisingly so, given Jollas financial difficulties. The failure of the Jollatablet is likely the last nail in the coffin for itsown-brand devices.