Just when you thought Finnish mobile OS maker Jolla had given up on making its own mobile hardware, given its recent financing troubleswhich led to ithaving to shutter a planned tablet, it gets back in the game  albeit with a limited run of 1,000 smartphones intended for developers and enthusiasts of itsplatform to test the latest and beta releases of its Sailfish OS.The community handset iscalled Jolla C, and has been priced at 169  with shipping limited to Europe. All 1,000 handsets sold out yesterday, on the day the programwas announced to the Sailfish community. Jolla says its looking to see if it can expand the size of the initiative.Devices areslatedto ship to buyers in July.Specs wise the 4G handset looks much like Indian OEMIntexs Sailfish poweredAqua Fish smartphone with a 5-inch display, 2GB of RAM, a 1.3GHz Qualcomm processor and Sailfish 2.0. While theplatform iscompatible with Android apps, the Jolla C intentionally ships without any third party content  to offer the purest OS experience.For this developer-focused device Jolla is abandoningThe Other Half hardware feature found onits debut smartphone  which had beenan attempt to differentiate a handsetby including swappable back plates and an internal connector that could support powered add ons on the rear of the device, such as keyboards or e-ink screens.The hardware is really not the point here though. The program isa move by Jolla to further foster the Sailfish developer community to pullin energy and ideas, as community managerJames Noorinotes in a blog about the initiative:With this program and the Jolla C device, we are going to focus on the software side of things and encourage the community to develop more for Sailfish OS itself.Jolla has been pushing an OS licensing business strategy in recent years, and has signed up OEMs in India and Africa to put out devices running Sailfish. It also has interest in Russia.As part of itscommunity device program, which is slated to run until May 2017, Jolla Cbuyers will be invited tolive online community sessions. Alimited group of first registrants will also beinvited to attend anInternational Sailfish Community Event in Helsinki next month.Jolla announced it had finally closed a $12 million Series C round earlier this month, having struggled to get the necessary fundsat the back end of last year. The developer program does risk raising a few eyebrows amongSailfish enthusiasts given that Jolla had to cancel its planned tablet  and is running an extended refund program for the vast majority of pre-orderers who wont get the slate. Some of whom will have to wait until next year for their refund. Yet its now taking in more pre-order money from backers.Responding to this point and another about the cost of the Jolla C on its community forum, Jollas head of comms said ithad very much hoped to be able to give devices free to developers but itsfinancial situation just does not allow this. He added that Jolla has set the price as low as we could, and is notmaking any profit on the Jolla C.Using the second part of the tablet refunds for this [i.e. to fund a freeJolla C developer device] does not really work, since we need to finance our operations until the next financing round at the end of the year  unfortunately this is the reality we live in, he adds.