In what has to be one of the best court transcripts about a domain name Ive read, Judge Lewis Kaplan essentially eviscerated the attorney for Office Space Solutions, a company that was attempting to sue programmer Jason Kneen on the grounds of warehousing a domain for 16 years. You can read the back story here but, in short, Kneen, who lives in the UK, did not want to sell his domain and the owner of Office Space Solutions, Harsh Mehta, attempted to cite cybersquatting law to take it from him.However you slice it, said Judge Kaplan, There are good cybersquatting cases and there are bad ones. And this is really one of the bad ones.Mehtas attorney, John Bostany, attempted to outline all of the points in which Kneen was in the wrong which is standard procedure in cases like these. However, at each turn Judge Kaplan countered. In arguing that Kneen was an international businessman, the following exchange occurred.Judge Kaplan: So its the titanium youre hanging your hat on, is that right?Botany:  Right.  Hes managed to do  escape the  in his mind hes doing exactly what hes getting you to do today, which is to leave him alone so that when someone does develop an interest in these names that hes not using in any way whatsoever other than warehousing, they will develop an interest in them enough to pay him a huge amount.  Not $500, not a thousand dollars.  Who knows?  We asked him what kind of counter offer and he said I dont even want to say it right now, I want to wait.THE COURT:  Lets be practical, Mr. Bostany.  What went on here is you were trying to set him up.  Your client was trying to set him up.
In the end the Judge had the last word. In a long and detailed takedown, Judge Kaplan assessed each of Bostanys points and found all of them lacking. He even questioned Kneens prowess as a domain reseller.Judge Kaplan: The balance of hardships in my view, if it cuts in any direction cuts in favor of Mr. Kneen because an injunction could threaten to interfere with a perfectly lawful and appropriate course of business in which hes been engaged since 1999, all at the behest of somebody who appears to have a  who quite obviously just went out and registered a mark that he undoubtedly knew was nearly identical to the domain name registered and used by the plaintiff for many years for perfectly legitimate reasons.
While its upsetting that its almost impossible to get good domain names these days, its clear that domains are property and barring egregious action  grabbing a long-standing registered trademark, for example  owners should be able to sell to whom and for as much as they please. Kneen Transcript of Preliminary Injunction Hearing-2