Disrupt London is only a month away, and if for some reason you still havent bought a ticket, the time to act is now. There are only two days left to get tickets at our early-bird pricing level, a savings of 400. So what does that ticket get you? Weve lined up an incredible cadre of speakers who will share their expertise on tech and startups in a series of chats and panels. Folks like world-class footballer Thierry Henry, Snap Fashion CEO Jenny Griffiths and 83 North partner Laurel Bowden, to name just a few.Then theres the Startup Battlefield, a competition in which a few dozen companies pitch their startups to our panel of incredible judges, like-minded investors, entrepreneurs and innovators, as well as the thousands of people following along on the live stream. Battlefield companies have done extremely well post-Disrupt, raising a cumulative $5.7 billion and navigating a total of 69 exits. Several prominent companies have been through the Battlefield, including the likes of Yammer, Dropbox, Mint and Postmates.And if the Battlefield and speaker chats somehow arent enough to convince you to come to London, well also have hundreds of early-stage software and hardware companies on display in Startup Alley. These companies will pitch their wares and servicesto the sea of attendees walking the floor, with the goal of building relationships, hiring talent and attracting investors to help take their product to the next level.Disrupt is the best place to be if you want to network with the best and brightest minds in the tech industry and see some awesome startups displaying amazing new technology for the first time. But you really need to be there to experience everything Disrupt has to offer, so you should really head over to our ticketing page to snag a ticket at the early-bird price of 800 plus VAT before the prices jump on Friday.Disrupt London runs from December 7 to 8 at the beautiful Copper Box Arena, and we hope to see you there.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.