TechCrunch Include Office Hours are happening on May 24th! Satya Patel, Beth Scheer and Hunter Walk from Homebrew Ventureswill join TechCrunch to provide valuable advice and feedback to startups.Launched in 2014, Include is TechCrunchs diversity program, aimed at facilitating opportunities for underrepresented groups in tech to take their startups to the next level.The Office Hours program is part of that effort. Once monthly, TechCrunch works with VC partners to provide feedback and advice to early-stage companies. To be considered for a meeting in our May session with Homebrew, fill out the application hereby Wednesday, May 18th at noon PT.Underrepresented groups in tech include, but are not limited to, Black, Latino, Native American, LGBT and female founders. For our first session, wed prefer teams that are based in the Bay Area, as Office Hours will be held atTechCrunchs Offices in San Francisco.Lets learn more about our co-hosts.Prior to Homebrew, Satya Patel was vice president of product at Twitter, building and leading the product management and user services teams. Before Twitter, he was a Partner at Battery Ventures, where he co-led the seed and early-stage investing practices. He joined Google in 2003 and was responsible for AdSense product management and partnerships. Before heading to Silicon Valley for Google, he worked for DoubleClick in venture capital and as a strategy consultant.Preceding Homebrew, Beth Scheer spent five-plus years at Salesforce leading executive search, sales leadership and sales growth/professional services recruiting teams. She joined Google in 2003 to build out the AdSense team, then spent six years hiring for business operations, corporate communications, corporate development and various engineering teams, including new graduate PhDs.Before Homebrew, Hunter Walk led consumer product management at YouTube, starting when it was acquired by Google. He originally joined Google in 2003, managing product and sales efforts for AdSense, Googles contextual advertising business. Hisfirst job in Silicon Valley was as the founding product and marketing guy at Linden Lab. Before graduate school, he was a management consultant and also spent a year at Late Night with Conan O Brien.Were thrilled to have Homebrew join us.If youre interested in attending, apply here byWednesday (tomorrow) at noon PT.