London-based startup Kano, which makes a software platform and DIY computer kit built atop the Raspberry Pi to encourage kids to learn coding, has a new building block of its own to announce today: $15 million in Series A funding, led by Jim Breyer of Silicon Valley VC firm Breyer Capital.Other investors in the round include Collaborative Fund and Jim ONeill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management. The news was announced by Kano co-founder Alex Kleinon stage, here at TechCrunch Disrupt NY.Kano is also offering its users and the wider tech community the chance to invest in the round, via the Quire equity crowdfunding platform with up to $500,000 available for community backers. The round is basically over-subscribed so whatever the community will take theyre going to have a certain amount that were allocating for the community, addsco-founder and CEO Yonatan Raz-Fridman.The Quire community outreach follows Kanosuse of the Kickstarter crowdfunding platform, back in 2013, to get its first product to market. Itraised around $1.5 million via that platform, shipping its first batch of 18,000 Kano kits to Kickstarter backers last fall. Its now shipped more than 40,000 kits to more than 30,000 customers in all.Raz-Fridman tellsTechCrunch the new funding will be used forfour main goals: firstly extending the product platform  by creating more software content that runs onthe Kano OS, and also by developingadd-on hardware kits to expand into additional plug and play modular hardware (something Klein has previously hinted at).Expanding Kanos content and ecosystem isa crucial piece, given that the startupsambitions to scale beyondbeing just anotherbit player in anincreasingly crowded learn to code movement. Itsmission and vision is to build an entirecomputer company. And for that ecosystem is all.Secondly, the funding will go on expanding the business. Kano has sold kits to 86 countries to date, but itscore markets remainthe U.K. and the U.S.  and its keen to expand beyond those two,spyingopportunities for acreativity and education focused (relatively) low-cost computing platform to gain traction indeveloping countries.We have a lot of inbound queries from potential partners in places like India and China and Indonesia and Japan, saysRaz-Fridman, adding: And of course U.K. andU.S. will continue to be a place where we will pursue different partnerships and scaling our commercial operations.The third focus is on its philanthropic arm, the not-for-profit Kano Academy (not to confused with the Khan Academy) which has been set upto broadenaccessto Kanoproducts and encourage social entrepreneurship. Were talking to several global brands about a co-operation, Raz-Fridmansays, without going into specific detail on the initiatives planned.Kano is allocating one per centof the shareholding of the company to itsFoundation within the current funding round, as the vehicle to fund theAcademys activities over the long term. One per cent of Kano units sold per year will also be donated to institutions and individuals who cant afford to buy them. And one per cent of employees timewill go to Academy work and activities. (Kano is following the salesforce.com Foundations 1-1-1 model here.)The fourth spending pushwill go on stepping up a gear on the hiring front to allow Kano to ramp up activity across all business functions. Were planning to use some of the funding to build a team, build professional managers that can help us scale the business, bring more committed, talented developers, designers, product shapers to really make the next step into becoming a global successful computer company, addsRaz-Fridman.We want to build something for the next decade, not for the next few years. And we know that its only going to be possible if we really build that incredible culture internally, that is driven by the notion that people is everything.We are setting for ourselves a significant product design and development challenge. Which is to take this new world of small, cheap, open, hackable devices and make it truly friendly for the next 500 million, adds Klein, who heads up product for Kano. We believe fundamentally that there is a moment now, an inflection point  not merely for people to feel comfortable using computers in their day to day life but making them themselves.[Kano] presents code as an art, as something that is simple, as something that is human. Now were trying to take that ethos to a larger scale, toreally build a new type of computer company from the ground up, one that is predicated on creativity, rather than just consumption.In addition to the new funding,Kano has today announced a new version of its core product  which itscalling the New Kano. Thistakes advantage of the new 6x faster Raspberry Pi 2 (announced back in February) to offer additional apps and creative projects that can run more smoothly on the beefier Pi hardware. The price for the kit remains at $149.You can now make art with these beautiful step by step spells, youre making gradients, fractals, characters, its sort of like a generative painting program where everything you create is immediately accessible to another artist, maybe all the way across the globe, says Klein.Using it[the Pi 2 its]an incredible difference. Web browsing especially, its fast, its quick, the videos load well, the gaming  the FPS is higher  its a lean, mean, little board. Especially at this price.Another newproject is a text adventure game called Terminal Quest where kidsuseLinux commands as magic spells to solve the mystery and learn some coding along the way. It connects back to the core Kano idea of using simple step-by-step story telling to make technology feel human, he adds.Other additions arenew code blocks for existing games forthe Kano OS, such asMinecraft and Pong. Andon Kano World, itssocial platform, Klein notes theres a new project where kids can build their ownWhatsApp client.Existing Kano boards are not being obsoleted by the New Kano.The team has comeup with what its calling a power up kit  costing $89  thatwill let kids repurpose theirPi 1 board into a Internet of Things device by incorporatingan LED shield into the mix so they can use it for other DIYhardware projects likean alarm clock or a Pac-Man game. Kano is now taking pre-orders for this.We feel that this is not only a good way to get our current customers upgraded to the new board but a nice way to show that cheap computing, even devices from the last lifecycle can be creative and playful if you put it together with a story and some projects, Kleinadds.Existing Kano users wanting a lower cost way to upgrade their hardwarecanof course justbuy the Pi 2 themselves (for $35) and switch overthe boards, rather than shelling out for a whole new Kano kit. Kano notes that existing customerscan get the latest version of its Kano OS via anon-kit software update.