Its hard to know whats up with Kanye West right now. Perhaps the value ofTwitter just clicked with him, maybe hes upped his self-importance in the universe further, or this could all be clever marketing around his latest album. Either way, its impossiblenot to notice his tweets,which have included requests for money to Mark Zuckerberg and Larry Page, a bucket list of projects he want to tackle,and his struggle to change the world.West changed the release schedule for The Life Of Pablo, his latest album, this week when it dropped on Tidal, the music streaming service owned by his friend and fellow rapper Jay-Z, and Wests own website. West implored his fans to download the app to get early access. Many did, sending it to the top of the App Store, and also exposing major problems with the service,but West has now gone a step further and claimed the LP willnever go on sale elsewhere.So no iTunes download, or streaming onApple Music (11 million users), Spotify (100 million users) or other services. If you believe what he tweets, that is.My album will never never never be on Apple. And it will never be for sale You can only get it on Tidal. KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 15, 2016Interestingly, headdedthat he has future projects  and upcoming releases from rappers Kendrick Lamar and Young Thug that will alsobe Tidal exclusives.Also all Good Fridays songs will be on Tidal. Me and Kendrick got 40 songs and me and Young Thug got 40 songs. 40/40 club!!! KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 15, 2016This isnt the first time Apple has taken heat from musicians  Taylor Swift pulled her catalog from Apple Musiclast summerover payment concerns, which Apple addressed to get her back again but Westsantagonism seems to be centeredaround promoting his friends business, rather than any specific music industry issue.Its certainly ironic that a man who wants to change the world with his art is limiting its distribution.I am of service to the world with my art and I just want to serve more. KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 15, 2016Time will tell if West will goback on his word and release The Life Of Pablo more widely.