Remember the chaos surrounding Kanye Wests release of his new album, The Life of Pablo last month? The artist had originally said his album would be a Tidal exclusive, which drove fans to download the streaming music app in such great numbers that it ended up at the top of the U.S. App Store. Now, it appears West has changedhis mind. Hes made one of the new songs from The Life of Pablo available on Spotify, Apple Music and Google Music.Of course, this doesnt represent a full turnaround in terms of his earlier position on the matter  West had said before that the album would never be on Apple. Thats still effectively true. You cant stream the entire album on the other services, including Apples. But you can get a taste.My album will never never never be on Apple. And it will never be for sale You can only get it on Tidal. KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 15, 2016One of the albums more notable songs, Famous, is now available on the three streaming music services. This is the more controversial track where West disses Taylor Swift, saying he made that b**** famous, for reference.But as Pitchfork noted in its reportabout this new release, the Apple Music and Spotify versions of Famous arent the same as those on Tidal. (Pitchfork didnt catch the Google Play release.) Instead, the new track is an updated version of the song which includesa change to a lyric. West hadswapped the original line she be Puerto Rican day parade wavin' for she in school to be a real estate agent, says Pitchfork. This lyric was also previously changed on Tidal, we should note.The move is not entirely surprising, given Wests other antics surroundingthe albums release. Dubbed the industrys first SaaS album (software-as-a-service, that is), West publicly promoted the work, thencontinued to tweak it and make changes even after its release.After pushing the album out to his website for purchase alongside the option to stream on Tidal, the artist caused mass confusion when he decided to then pull the album down in order tocontinue to make changes shortly after its debut.Please for all music lovers. Please subscribe to tidal!!! I decided not to sell my album for another week. Please subscribe to tidal. KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) February 14, 2016That led to fan backlash, as manysaid they had been charged by Tidal for their purchase, then didnt get the download. Tidal later offered fans the ability to request a refund, and explained to them via email that the album was delayed and they could also choose to wait. The difficulties in purchasing also prompted mass pirating of the album  according to some reports, an estimated 500,000 people illegally downloaded the day after its release.Although West has been very active on Twitter when promoting other aspects of the albums promotion in the past, he hasnt yet publicly commented on hisdecision to release Famous tothe other major music services.