Almost one year ago, Google released its diversity data, kicking off a wide-ranging industryconversation about why tech companies and venture capital firms are so unrepresentative of the racial and gender make-up of the rest of the U.S.Dozens of other companies followed Googlessuitwhile the issue of gender in theventure world has been on the frontburner with theEllen Pao and Kleiner Perkins verdict last Friday.But Mitch and Freada Kapor have been here more or less all along.Mitch, who co-foundedLotus Development Corporation, which sold to IBMfor $3.5 billion in 1995, and Freada, who has a Ph.D and hasbeen active on the issue of diversity for years, runaventure firm Kapor Capital,math and science educational programs for students of color and are in the process of building a new center in Downtown Oaklandaround their ideas.They shared some lessons from their work in an interview I did with them several weeks ago:What would you say has changed about the diversity conversation since you started doing this kind of work?Freada: Whats better is that were talking about it and we see it as an issue. Prior to Google releasing its numbers last May, it was nearly impossible to get any major tech companys attention. And it still is nearly impossible to get any major Sand Hill Road VC firms attention, except Kleiner Perkins which has been sitting in court.The numbers have gone up and down in terms of white women in computer science. But the numbers have never been anywhere but low for underrepresented people of color.Im hoping that what we have now that we didnt have before is a new framework. I dont mean that as gloss. I mean it as a deeper more nuanced and sophisticated understanding.Not only is there a pipeline problem Actually, I was working on a story a month or so ago about East Palo Alto and I remember a woman who runs a well-regarded non-profit there telling me, We dont have a pipeline problem. We have an investment problem. It struck me partly because the idea of a pipeline problem is repeated over and over. Yet it feels like this is also a way of abdicating responsibility, saying its the education systems fault or whatever and therefore theres not much really that any individual orcompany can do about it.Freada: There is some substance to the pipeline problem issue. But I talk a lot about a leaky pipeline problem, which takes many forms  some of which have some layer of bias involved.You have to look at all the drop-off points before you get into who gets to be a freshman computer science student. If you look at big school district level data, if youve failed 3rd grade math and you hit a certain absentee level in your freshman year, you can predict with almost certainty that a student is going to drop out of high school.So what is it that were doing at 3rd grade math level? If someone is failing, can we do something to course correct? To write off a kid at third grade is just heart-breaking. These seem like points where we ought to be rallying, intervening and flipping the argument over its head.But even with the pipeline problem, I do also think that you have to have an understanding of how bias operates.What kinds of advice would you give to growth-stage tech companies thinking about diversity?Freada: My first piece of advice is to stop thinking about yourself as a meritocracy.Because if you believe youre a meritocracy and you have numbers like everybody who has released their data, the implicit message is that Caucasian men are better than everyone else. Because thats who is overrepresented. Its endorsing a notion that these other people arent as good, and therefore thats why there arent a ton of them.Mitch: Its a remarkable fact about people that were not consistent all the time. At one moment, a person can acknowledge how much they would like to have a diverse mix of employees. Then in another moment, they can also believe that its a genuine meritocracy where the best people and ideas get funded. To an extent, thats what they like about Silicon Valley, its meritocratic nature. That is not completely wrong. Its just wrong when it comes to matters of race and class.Freada: Right. There was an MIT, Wharton and Harvard Business School study where they took a business plan that had already won a business plan competition. So we knew that it was investable.Then they ran a controlled experiment where the same business plan videos were narrated by either male or female voices. When the same pitch was narrated by a male voice, the judgeschose it 68 percent of the time.Ive been doing a lot of customized talks on hidden bias to help companies understand how  despite their best intentions  they may be making biased decisions anyways.I try to come up with all kinds of practical steps to mitigate bias at the end of the talk. There are things you can do that are as simple as removing names from resumes.Or a Rooney rule, [which the National Football League adopted more than a decade ago and requires teams to interview minority candidates for head coaching and senior football operations jobs. Theres no requirement that they hire these candidates, just that they include at least one in the interview process].Or changing employee referral networks. When I ask if companies have employee referral networks, most say yes. But if I ask whether theyd have a structure for referrals of underrepresented groups, people often think thats discriminatory and unfair.They dont think that having an employee referral system in a company with skewed numbers is by itself unfair. They think that getting to diversity that way is unfair.Yeah, I understand. There was a profile of Tristan Walker last year in Fast Company and the journalist pointed out that if youre recruiting from your friends, and they just happen to be more white or more male because people naturallygravitate towards peoplewho are like them, that may be structurally racisteven if theres no deliberate or malicious intent to exclude people.Freada: One of the things that I think doesnt work, and we know this from earlier decades of work are things that can sounds like or feel like affirmative action. For a variety of reasons, those are seen as unfair. What happens is the candidates brought in through those mechanisms face all kinds of career limiting backlashIf you look at the law firm world, I remember in the early 1990s, every African-American associate that I interviewed at a top-tier law firm told me that affirmative action was the worst thing that happened to their careers. The automatic assumption is that you dont really belong here. Youre not really qualified to be here. Youre only here because of affirmative action. I worry about seeing the same reactions today.Mitch: Theres still a lot of lazy interviewing at tech companies like how many jelly beans does it take to fill a 747. Not only do they not get at anything, they are quite biased. Google has started to disavow them.Freada likes to talk about the idea of distance traveled. Where did the candidate start from? What hurdles have they overcome?How do you think about the term culture fit as a rationalization for including or excluding people?Freada: I think theres a lot of confusion about whats a need to have and whats a nice to have. Its important to look at the dynamics of culture fit early.One of my very favorite quotes is from Twilios Jeff Lawson. They, by the way, have one of the few diversity groups that is co-led by women engineers. To have engineering deeply involved in company diversity and inclusion efforts is critically important to getting it right and not having it be a side annoying thing.Anyway, Jeff said something like, When would it be a good time to think about diversity? When Ive got 1,000 white, male engineers?Its brilliant in its poignancy. Everyone has business fires to put out and if you dont think about diversity as part of building a great company, youre never going to prioritize it.To understand the culture, you have to ask who succeeds here and why? Thats how you can begin to see if it might be inherently biased on the basis of gender or race.Who do you think is a role model on this front?Freada: Nobodys figured it out. We have no one to point to in terms of demographic balance. But when we talk about companies making real efforts, Twilio is doing it in a very sincere way thats completely consistent with their values. Its also on their .org side.Its baked into the company as opposed to an afterthought. With their developer conference Signal, they reached out to us to figure out how to get a more diverse audience and put together a panel on it. It intersects all parts of their business.What programs do you think are actually effective? There are lots of programs that Google and others have started to fund like Code2040, and then lots of regional or locally-focused organizations. Which ones are actually good?Freada: A couple things. Im trained as a researcher. I believe in rigorous evaluation. All of the groups ought to be looking at outcomes. The second thing is that were building a map of this leaky pipeline because weve got a bit of a herd mentality. There is way too much money going to hackathons teaching privileged girls how to code without any tie-in to anything else.I understand the appeal of hackathons but its got to be connected to something  especially if youre dealing with kids who are going to be the first in their families to go to college. Youve got some responsibility to help them at different points of the pipeline too.Then when I think about other organizations like Code2040, I think about the foundation world subsidizing some of the companies with the biggest market caps on the planet. Theyre placing philanthropic dollars that are training underrepresented kids to be placed at Facebook, Google and Twitter. All of those are public companies which already have multi-billion dollars market caps.Mitch: Of course, if youre a startup and youre hiring, youll want to hire people who have been at Google, Facebook and Twitter. Having those credentials is really important.But what Freada is speaking to is when there are training programs for a cohort to be more inclusive, our view is that the host institution, whether thats a Google or Facebook should be at the very least matching those philanthropic contributions if not going above them. Theyre not making enough of an investment in developing these parts of the pipeline. And a lot of that money is coming from other philanthropic sources.You run your own program, SMASH, for students of color in math and science. What did you learn from that?Freada: We thought that if you could do a demonstration program to show that theres a ton of talent and that if you created the opportunity, the kids would come. That was the point of SMASH.Were in a stage where theres room for a lot of approaches. But what we want to talk about witha lot of well-intentioned people who arent starting their own programs is how to plug in the holes along the way. Were mapping out all of the drop-off points so that as opposed to being the 400th person who funds a girls coding program, we can even out the dollars.And then, we think its equally important to expose tech workers to these kids as it is for these kids to be exposed to math and science.When we get engineers to come in and volunteer at SMASHs hackathons, they all have the same reaction. Theyre blown away by how smart and excited these kids are.And we think, what? Did you really not think that black and brown boys and girls wouldnt be as excited about a hackathon?What about at the other end of the pipeline on the venture side?Freada: What were trying to do at Kapor Capital is to show that you can invest in these communities and do well.Mitch loves to talk about entrepreneurs building things that scratch their own itch. We talk about entrepreneurs like Frederick Hutson and Ana Roca-Castro who have built businesses.Mitch: If you locked up John Doerr, Bill Gurley and Vinod Khosla in a room for a year, they could have never thought up what has become Pigeon.ly [Hutsons startup] or Roca-Castros Plaza Familia. Their lived experience doesnt include federal prison.But both of these are first-rate businesses in terms of impact and in terms of what theyre going to be able to do financially. If you dont have those folks at the table, those ideas arent going to get created, the beneficiaries of these services arent going to be helped, those jobs arent going to be created and the investors arent going to earn a return.Are you going to share your returns to prove it?Mitch: It takes seven to 10 years to prove out a venture strategy. Were in about year four. I expect we will for better or for worse.We are running the entire portfolio with the intent to fully reveal its internal performance. Even though its our money, we run it now as if there are external limited partners. I dont mind making five-year forward-looking commitment to this.How do you think about strategy in terms of being confrontational versus being more flexible in getting the industry to change? (Its a classic tension in activism.)Freada: I think theres room for outsiders to be demanding and shaming. Thats an important role.Mitch: But change can happen at other levels. Look at Y Combinator. Look at the regime change from Paul Graham to Sam Altman. There was this changing of the guard and now theres a significantly greater commitment to diversity. Its reflected in cohorts and in the non-profits and theyre blogging actively about this.Y Combinator, which is like the Harvard or Stanford of accelerator programs, could have stayed as it wanted to. But they havent.Look at Jessica Livingston. Look at how shes speaking now. You wont find her making speeches like this years ago.The other thing to remember is the time scale upon which change happens. Because were in Silicon Valley, were so used to this accelerated Moores Law timeline because weve seen it so many times.But when you look at for instance, the civil rights struggle, Selma was the culmination of a half-century of work. The NAACP was founded in 1909 and it took a half-century to get to Selma, which is the mid-way point. When we talk about what has and hasnt changed, we need to think about the time frame upon which human institutions change.Its fine to be impatient. Its one of the dilemmas of being human. But in the case of the big venture firms, theyre probably not going to change until the existing general partners retire.Freada: People change more slowly than the the technologies they invent.What do you think about other groups like the Rainbow Push Coalition, which has more of its historical roots in the civil rights movement. They went before the big tech companies at their shareholder meetings and demanded that diversity data be released before many companies actually did it.Mitch: Id say its necessary, but not sufficient. This playbook was used on Wall Street decades ago and its not clear that Wall Street is engaged in lasting change.Freada: History is also being re-written about these tech companies that started releasing data last year. There is a whole crop of companies like HP, Cisco and Intel that have been releasing it all along.Their numbers dont necessarily look any better. Many companies have had had cheap diversity programs over the past 20 years. Its a worthwhile question to ask about whats broken with existing approaches to diversity.I am an optimist. I wouldnt be doing this work if I wasnt. There are all of these young companies and people who are very eager to learn and start employee resources groups to focus on diversity.But if you look at historic diversity programs, regardless of industry and company, they werefueled by a concern about being sued for discrimination. Thats not a positive motivator. Thats not a good business reason.Last years effort on diversity numbers is a good thing. But it is still coming in response to external pressure. Journalists and outsiders have been persistent in asking for the numbers and what companies are doing to fix it.But it needs to come from within. Twitter ought to be looking at who is using its product and how to mirror that customer base inside.If you look at the Pew Internet studies on who uses products like Twitter, Pinterest or Facebook, do any of these companies look like their user bases?