Messaging is the hot topic of 2016, which is why were tremendously excited to announcethat Ted Livingston, the founder and CEO of popular chatapp Kik,is confirmed as aspeaker at our upcoming TechCrunch Disrupt event in New YorkfromMay 9-11.Weve already revealeda number of prestigious participantsfor Disrupt including Union Square Ventures founder and partner Fred Wilson, YouTube star Casey Neistat, andAmazon Echo VP Mike George and, in Livingston, we are adding a true mobile messaging visionary. Hes publicity shy andisntoften found atmainstream tech events, but hes agreed to a fireside chat with us focused onexplaining why mobile messaging is so important right now, and where it is headed.Sneakyspoiler alert, Livingstonbelieves we are enteringanew paradigm for mobile internet.One thing I think we can all agree on is that chat is going to be the worlds next great operating system, he wrote recently. Chat apps will come to be thought of as the new browsers; bots will be the new websites. This is the beginning of a new internet.Kik, like WhatsApp, was one of the earliestmobile messaging apps and it leads the wayinthe genre. The company was one of the first to introduce bots  back in 2014, while Microsoft and others are just following now  while it is focused on adding new services, like food/drink ordering and payments,and the business of actually making money via messaging, too, working with selected brands that appeal to its users.The company has largely dodged the attention radar for some time, no doubt thanks to the fact that it is based up in Waterloo, Canada, but an investment from Chinese internet giant Tencent  the creator of WeChat, the blockbuster messaging app that is inspiring Facebook and others pushed Kiks valuation past the $1 billion mark and put it firmly in the spotlight.Unicorn valuation aside, Kik is one of those apps that may not be well known toall internet users, but it has steadily built up a phenomenal base of young users in the West.Today, the chat app counts more than275 million registered users, 70 percent of whom itestimates areaged between 13 and 24 years old. Indeed, Kik claims that around 40 percent of all teens in the U.S. use its service. That makes it a major rival to Snapchat, Facebook and others, and most definitely one to watch for the future.Buy tickets to Disrupt here. Theres only a week left to grab a ticket at early bird pricing.Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you want to learn more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.