Kinnek, a New York-based marketplace for small businesses to find suppliers and manage purchasing, has just raised $20 million in Series B funding led by Thrive Capital.Italready looks like a smart bet.The company currently has20,000 businesses and 2,000 suppliers using its marketplace, and theyre striking millions of dollars worth of deals every week, says cofounder Karthik Sridharan. Considering the companys age and the fragmented landscape in which its operating  think restaurants to distilleries to manufacturers  that kind of traction is meaningful.Its also just the tip of the iceberg, apparently. According to a spokesperson for the company, Kinnek conservatively estimates that U.S. businesses with up to 100 employees and $20 million in yearly sales spend more than $2.2 trillion annually on machinery, equipment and physical goods based on data from Visa, Intuit, and the Bureau of Labor Statistics.While we cant vouch for the accuracy of that number (there are lots of different figures floating around out there), what is clear is the competition, or lack of it, facingKinnek. A preliminary search by DataFox, a business intelligence company, turns up just four upstartstrying toconnect small businesses with suppliers online in recent yearsKinnek, BuyersBestFriend, SupplyBid, and SupplyHog andthe last three are focused on specific verticals. (SupplyHog, for example, is a platform for the construction industry.)Its easy to understand Kinneksvalue proposition. Most small companies are stuck buying machinery or other bulk supplies from the same outfits theyve always worked with. Kinnek plugs them into a world where they can easily get customized quotes from numerous suppliers who, because theyre competing, presumably offer better pricing.Buyers dont pay a dime to use the platform. Only suppliers are charged a broker fee, as well as a cut of each transaction. (It varies depending on the product being sold.)Kinnek doesnt seem terribly concerned about disintermediation, either. The key, it says, are incentives like ratings and reviews that build up businesses for suppliers.In the [business-to-business] world, theres nothing like a Yelp to help you understand the reputation of a particular factory, says Sridharan. Because suppliers can establish a namefor themselvesthrough Kinnek, itdrives more businessand keepsthem from going around Kinnek for a deal or two.Indeed, going forward, Kinnek aims to create more of a social graph for its customers. The company already hosts Q&A forums where buyers can ask questions and suppliers can answer them for reputation points. The company next plans to address groups of business owners based on their common business-related interests, with an eye toward facilitating much more interaction between them. It also wants to handle more in terms of payments, the partial showing of catalogues, and invoicing.And Kinnekplans to beef up the types of businesses on the platform, with targets that include hotels, motels, farms and other agriculture-based companies.The 30-person startup will use some of its new capital to hire salespeople toward that end, but Sridharan says someare likely to find the company on their own.Theres so much latent demand for a purchasing tool like this, it feels likeits beendecades in the making, he says.Along with Thrive, Kinneks newest funding comes from earlier backers Matrix Partners, Sierra Ventures, Version One Ventures, and Angelpad, as well as individual investors, including AngelList cofounder Naval Ravikant. To date, it has raised $33 million.