Spare a thought for high end fashion boutiques. The rarefied aura of prestige and privilege they spend so long cultivating to reflectthe premium brands they stock means they cant use something as crudely effective as discounts to lurecustomers in store. So how dothey acquire new customers?One optionsis fancy events anddinners to wine and dine future big spenders. But thats not a cheap option, as you can imagine. Nor, necessarily, hugely effective.Its this expensive customer acquisition problemfor bricks-and-mortar high end fashion stores thatFinland- and London-based fashion discovery startup Knomi is targeting offering an iOS app to help themfind new buyerswithout denuding the carefully stokedbrand value upon which they depend.Knomissystem iscurrently live in London, where it hasmore than 70 high end fashionretailers signed up to supply inventory to itsapp at this point  including FarFetch, Net-a-porter, Mr PorterandMatchesFashion. High end here means the average fashion item in the app retails for north of 150.So how does Knomiwork? Fashion boutiques installaBluetoothiBeacon and when users of the app are in the vicinity they might receive a push notification suggesting they go check out a certain item. These are not genericpush notifications blanketing every user who happens to walk by. Rather they are tailoredto specific items a user has collected  so seen in the app beforehand and liked enough to save to their collection or which the fashion forward folks they are following in the app have collected or liked. Hencethis issocial fashion discovery.To get plenty of social juice in the tank from the get-go, Knomi requires Facebook sign in, and also pushes users to follow a selection offashion bloggers and accounts it has onthe platform. So chances are there will already beplenty of items even an newbie user might be getting a nudge about when out shopping.It does smart push notifications telling you theres a store around the corner or close to you right now where a friend of yours or this blogger that you follow on the platform or you yourself have liked so why dont you go check it out? explainsco-founder Markus Ehrnrooth. This way we drive the footfall to our brick and mortar store partners.In some instances a Knomi retail partner might be providingspecific enough inventory data so that it cantell aspecific liked item is in stock at that particular store. However in othercases the retailers may nothave such granular data so the notification will be worded to reflect that an item is sold there (but not necessarily in stock right now).In some places, especially in small boutiques, they dont have a separate inventory for their mobile and their physical stores. They have the same inventory so we have the live inventory based on the online data feed that wehook up with. Then on some stores we dont have the same thing so well just be careful with the wording  hey these guys sell or have had this item  to not give the wrong impression to the customer,notesEhrnrooth.Now, as every mobile user knows, push notifications can be really, really annoying. So how is Knomi making sure itsvirtual shoulder-taps dont just irritate itshigh end fashion fans? One thing its trying isturning off soundso that notifications are delivered silently, sans buzz. Sotheyare there for usersto tune in towhen they check their phone while out shopping.What we normally do is we do silent notifications, says Ehrnrooth. Thats what we found out through many, many customer interviews on this point If you walk around town and your phone starts buzzing that app is the one that goes out of the window very quickly.But if youre out shopping its almost an active sort of process where you take out your phone anyway, youre going to be on your phone all the time  and then when you see the notification from Knomi if its of interest youll click that and go into the app. So by not buzzing on a notification suddenly its not even annoying anymore.Users of Knomi can also buy items via the app itself  so theres a mobile shopping component to the business too, with mobile checkout covering the vast majority of products  butEhrnrooth stresses thatmany of its target fashion retailers are most keen to drive footfall to their physical stores.In our segment, which is the high end boutiques, its about footfall into the brick and mortar stores. They have huge difficulty to actually drive that aspect of the business. So online they can do it through Facebook marketing and what not. But for them what they pride themselves on is their brick and mortar store, he adds.Knomi isworking with high end fashion retailers at this earlystage, althoughEhrnrooth says the ambition is to work with high end fashion brands themselves, down the line. But working with those brands per se is very difficult for a startup, he adds.The iOS app launched last week, and at this early stage theyve garneredaround 3,000 users with no marketing push  adding between 50 and 400 a day, from word of mouth usage.The business model is two-fold: Knomitakes a cut of any mobiles sales made via the app, with the commission varying per retailer. Then for driving offline footfall itchargesfor any peopleit gets through the door of aboutique if they opened one of its notifications first  regardless of whether they go on to buy anything or not.Provided that we were the party that brought that customer through the door you can think of it analogically to what happens with affiliate marketing online, he notes.At this point its not monetizing any purchases made in the store by a customer it drove to the store  but thats an area it wants to move in on in future, although Ehrnrooth concedes its quite a challenge for many reasons which is why its justcharging for footfall for now.The startup has raised 1 million in pre-seed financing to fund development thus far, with investment coming from Helsinki-based seed investor ReaktorPOLTE, the Tekes Finnish Funding Agency for Innovation,and a group of private angel investors.As befits a high end fashion-focused business, the market expansion planfrom here on inis to expand toParis, Milan and New York  and possibly also Hong Kong (although Ehrnrooth notes that without Facebook its more of a challenge to get a social discovery startup up and running).Of course there are scores of existing competitors in the fashion discovery space butEhrnrooth argues that Knomis focus on a curated selection of high end products and social discovery offers something that can stand out.Main competitors in the fashion discovery space are Lyst, ASAP54, Fancy, Grabble and most importantly Net-a-porters The NetSet. Knomis key differentiator against the first four is simple: instead of an endless catalogue of products that the user swipes through, Knomi makes the experience about people and products. The people aspect is what Knomi is all about, whilst competitors either lack the social layer completely or only include it as a add on, he says.The NetSet has a very similar user proposition to Knomi. The key difference here being that NetSet is exclusively for Net-a-Porter products, whilst Knomi brings together fashion from over 70 high-end, fashion forward retailers In the location/driving footfall space there not many players in the high-end fashion niche. To mention a few though; StreetHub (not focussed on fashion, our focus is our edge), and Farfetchs app Farfetch Discover (we strongly believe the fact that we are multi-platform and focus on social for the user is our edge over them).