*Cue the old man music*In my day, the best sports athletes of our time sat in front of a camera with their family by their side when they announced that they were retiring.In 1993, Michael Jordan retired for the first time. Journalists surrounded him while they asked questions:What if Jordan had played during our age? The digital age. Right now, Jordans brand Jumpman has 2.5 million followers on Twitter, but he doesnt interact with his fans or share a lot of personal updates. On the other hand, Kobe Bryant has 7.92 million followers and interacts with other players and fans often. Today, Bryant skipped the hoopla (so far) of doing the press conference and announced his intentions to retire from the NBA after this seasonvia Twitter.Dear Basketball:  https://t.co/KDecft6BO2 #KB20 Kobe Bryant (@kobebryant) November 29, 2015The site he linked to with his message, which is baseball great Derek Jeters, crashed under the pressure from all of the clicks. When the site launched, Jeter said his goal was to remove filters between athletes and fans. Its working.The tweet itself currently has 33,796 retweets and 22,828 likes. How would that translate into viewers who would have tuned into say, ESPN, to watch it. While Bryants retirement from the Lakers after twenty years wasnt a shock, the timing and the way he chose to share the news was most certainly a surprise.If that kind of worldwide reach wasnt enough (the tweet will be shown on television), Bryant followed it up (a minute later, timestamps show) with a simple post on Facebook, where he has 20,406,055 likes, which is also picking up steam.Its further proof that weve entered a time in our lives where we want to be closer to the action. A part of the entertainment that we watch on TV. In no other time in the world have we become closer to the people we admire and other like-minded folks who admire the same people as you. In a way, Kobes retirement news coming via Twitter speaks volumes about what fans expect from athletes who make millions of dollars every year. Sometimes, Twitter gets players into trouble, since theyre often tweeting with no filter or PR person at the helm. Or at least it comes off that way.The NBA even posted their statement on Twitter:NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued the following statement regarding @kobebryants announcement today pic.twitter.com/fenWAw4qSH NBA (@NBA) November 30, 2015Twitters place in history has long been cemented, this is just another reminder that this aint your grandpas our world anymore. Will Steph Curry retire over a live streamed VR experience where it feels like were in the gym with him? Hold on to your hats.In case you cant read Kobes letter, heres an excerpt:Dear Basketball,From the moment
I started rolling my dads tube socks
And shooting imaginary
Game-winning shots
In the Great Western Forum
I knew one thing was real:I fell in love with you.A love so deep I gave you my all 
From my mind & body
To my spirit & soul.
