Forget about your supermarket and buy directly from your local farmers and foodmakers. French startup La Ruche qui dit oui (also known as The Food Assembly in the U.K.) has been making waves in its home country for a while now. But it seems like international investors also got the word as Fred Wilson from Union Square Ventures and Frdric Court from Felix Capital are leading a $9 million Series B round (8 million) in the food startup, with XAnge and Quadia also participating. This startup is fascinating for many reasons  La Ruche may have found the most efficient business model when it comes to building a food startup.Last year, we launched in the U.K., Germany, Spain and Italy. This round means that we need to solidify our existing markets, co-founder and CEO Marc-David Choukroun told me. We need to go faster when it comes to our innovation power.Heres how La Ruche works. There are hundreds of ruches in many different places in France. You first need to find your local ruche on the companys website and sign up to the newsletter. Every week, the ruche manager will send you an email and tell you what you can buy this week. Local foodmakers then come and sell directly their goods to the end consumers in your city. Its a great way to talk with your neighbors and local farmers.And this is key to understanding La Ruches early success. The company only provides a marketplace, which is a major advantage for everyone. First, local farmers get over 80 percent for every product sold, which is around four times better than what they could get from a supermarket chain. Similarly, these foodmakers set their own prices, meaning that it doesnt need to be a race to the bottom anymore. At the same time, because they keep most of the proceedings of a purchase, they can set competitive prices as well.Second, La Ruche doesnt manage directly these local communities. Ruche managers are independent contractors who probably already know their way around local food and want to take advantage of the startups platform. These managers get an 8.35 percent cut on every transaction, and, according to an internal survey, 40 percent of them would like to work on their ruches full time.Finally, La Ruche sits happily in this service provider position, providing the technology, brand and network to help local farmers get a fairer price and provide healthy food to more people. The company keeps an 8.35 cut as well.Overall, only 70 people are working for La Ruche, with 15 people working on product design and development right now. We only need 3 or 4 people to manage a network of 100 to 200 ruches, Choukroun said. When you look at all the 600 ruches available in France, you cant help but think that this model is ultra scalable.When it comes to todays fundraising news, I was quite surprised to learn that a startup that mostly operates in its home market could convince international investors. Competition in this industry is international. We were lucky to be one of the first companies in this area, Choukroun said. And thats why we wanted to work with international investors. For example, we like USV because they worked with Etsy, Kickstarter, Tumblr and many other community-focused platforms.Frdric Court from the new VC firm Felix Capital and Cyril Bertrand from XAnge are joining the board. Fred Wilson is going to be a board observer. Rodolphe Menegaux who recently left XAnge for Alven Capital is becoming a board observer as well.I have been following this company for a while, Frdric Court told me in a phone interview. And this is a beautiful example of what were trying to do with our investment thesis. We invest in companies that build on top of the European heritage and lifestyle  fashion, food, cuisineI then asked him about the business potential of La Ruche as Felix Capital is a VC firm first and foremost. The true beauty behind La Ruche is that its all about recurring transactions, he said. In fashion, people dont buy stuff every month. But the lifetime value of a La Ruche customer can be very high. There are a few areas like this one, transportation and food for example.La Ruche is also USVs first investment in a French startup. Fred Wilson comes to Europe around four times a year as he has boards in a few major European cities. Last December, he was in Paris with his wife and met Choukroun. We went to a ruche on a Saturday morning, we had coffee, watched people come by. To me, that was the moment when I realized that they were doing something different, unique  something that nobody in the U.S. has done, at least successfully, Fred Wilson told me in a phone interview.When I asked whether USV had been looking to invest in a food startup as many have been very successful in the past couple of years (Postmates, Instacart, Blue Apron), his answer was very straightforward. Weve been wanting to invest in a food startup. But the specific sector of food that weve been interested in is farmers to families, and how do you make that work, he said. Weve probably met with 30 or 40 companies in this sector all over the U.S., Europe, Canada  lots of places. We always want to invest in companies that are communities first and foremost  Etsy and Kickstarter are classic examples of that.While La Ruche is only focused on a few European countries for now, USV doesnt plan to pressure the company to expand to the U.S. At some point, they will try the U.S., but Im more excited in the short run about the U.K., Germany, Spain and Italy  and its still growing very nicely in France and Belgium but its quite large already, Wilson said. Maybe in a few years, they will see if they can make it work in the U.S. But we made this investment with our eyes wide open. We realize that this model may not work in the U.S. Do I care? Not really. On the other hand, if it works in the U.S., thats great.Theres something particular in La ruches culture and model. While it found a great way to create a scalable food marketplace, Choukroun also talks a lot about the companys mission, empowering local farmers and foodmakers, creating a better way to eat. We have many applications to become a ruche managers, but we really screen those applications. But were not Uber, we dont want to flood the market and foster competition between drivers, he said. We do everything so that community members dont compete with one another. It seems like La Ruche could grow even faster than that, but the company also wants to stay true to its values.