Technology continues to invade Hollywood, andlast nights Golden Globes was no exception. The event not only saw Amazon and Netflix winning big, but also featured the first-everRed Carpet drone. On Sunday, at the Beverly Hilton Hotel, a drone provided by DJI Global was used to capture footage of the celebs and their guests and other Red Carpet moments. Whats interesting, however, the drone was not from one of the six film companies the FAA cleared in September to use drones for commercial filming purposes.For background, the Federal Aviation Administration officially opened up the doors to select film companies who wanted to offer  or already were providing, according to their websites  drone aircraft for the purpose offilming movies, commercials, music videos, and other footage. The decision at the time was notable because before then, the FAA had only approved two commercial drone operations, both for Alaskan oil operations, The Wall Street Journal reportedat the time.These six companies includedSnaproll Media LLC,Aerial MOB LLC, Flying Cam LLC,HeliVideo Productions LLC, Pictorvision, Inc., and RC Pro Productions Consulting LLC dba Vortex Aerial.Including drones authorized for other commercial operations, like real estate footage, there are now a total of14 FAA exceptions for 13 companiesin the U.S.Apparently, DJI Global worked around the problem of not being officially approved by the FAA by offering its drone to the Golden Globes free of charge. A company representative responded to our inquiry about this, confirming that it had filmed at the Beverly Hilton early Saturday and on Sunday with permission from the hotel, adding:This is non-commercial work, the company explained. We are not being compensated to fly here.This is how @djiglobal will provide a drones eye view of tomorrows #GoldenGlobes #RedCarpet. https://t.co/sMg3CWSUcV Golden Globe Awards (@goldenglobes) January 11, 2015But even if DJI Global didnt get directly paid, it did get some free promotion from the event.The Golden Globes tweeted about the dronereferencing DJIs Twitter account,and Carson Daly evenposted footage of the companys aircraft to his Instagram, joking New 2015 red carpet trend.DRONES!! Famous middle aged balding men beware. New 2015 red carpet trend.DRONES!! Famous middle aged balding men beware. #goldenglobesA video posted by Carson Daly (@carsondaly) on Jan 11, 2015 at 11:52am PSTDJI Global also confirmed the drone they used was the DJI Inspire 1, which includes carbon fiber arms, and holds a 4K camera that lets filmmakers shoot 4K video and capture 12 megapixel photos. The legs also raise up, allowing the camera to swivel 360 degrees. The camera lens consists of 9 separate elements, including anaspherical element for clarity, plus offersAdobe DNG RAW support, its website says. The drone is dual-operated, with one remote for flight control and another for camera control.ThoughDJI Global appears to bepassing off its Red Carpet drone as a recreational, non-commercial flight, it looks like it still would have broken theFAAs rules. The LAX airport is 12 miles away, so it didnt have to report its operations to the airport control tower  but it definitely intentionally flew over unprotected persons, which the FAA advised against with a reminderof its rules backin December.@goldenglobes @DJIGlobal So much for not flying within safety distances of people and buildings? BJH Media (@BjhMedia) January 11, 2015Update: DJI Global added that the drone was flown before the Globes arrivals started, and a person ran ahead of the flight crew to ensure the drone was not flying directly over any construction crew on journalists setting up for the event. Carlson Dalys video (above), however, seems to tell a different story.