Nikesh and Gemma, your Hackathon MCs, here again! Wonder what APIs you might build on over Hackathon weekend? Have we got some technologies for you! Were excited to announce the sponsors prizes for this years spectacular TechCrunch Hackathon London.CloverThe most interesting app utilising the Clover platform. Examples can include employee management, order and collect, table layout and order management, dynamic menus, Apple Watch integration, or whatever retail and restaurants might need! All ideas welcome!Clover have prizes up to 3,000.00 on offer for the most interesting use of their app.EsriWhat is Esris ArcGIS Platform? ArcGIS is the Location Platform for Apps. Quickly geo-enable your apps using Esris online services and SDKs. Develop in the API of your choice and deploy on any device. Access ready-to-use content, Geofencing, Directions & routing, Offline support, Visualization, Geocoding, Imagery, and more.Esri have set the bar with a prize on offer for the best use of Esri ArcGIS mapping technology winning a $5,000 prize ($2,500 cash, plus $2,500 ArcGIS Online subscription).Hummhumm is looking for a new app that will expand or even redefine what music services can do. Building on our white-label API  complete with a fast-growing database of 50m songs and videos, a recommendation engine, artist info, playlist importing and more  we want to see just how innovative and leftfield music-based apps can be.Dont hold back.It could be anything from an iPod shuffle or playlist creator, to a Tinder or social network for music fans. Create something special, and you could win a Sonos speaker, 1,000 and 18 months free access to the Humm APISky TVMost people can think of a time when they have been unable to find something to watch on TV?! Sky challenge you to develop a new recommendations engine that will ensure this never happens again! You will need to use our provided files/data to create an engine that will substantially improve the accuracy of recommendations, and how much subscribers are going to enjoy a movie/programme based on their preferences.Sky is all about Believing in Better and improving the satisfaction of our customers by helping them discover content they would love. We learn user preferences and use those preferences to make personalised content recommendations. Using this ethos we want you to create something revolutionary  who knows your engine could even be used on a Sky product in the future!The team that create the most ingenious and accurate engine will win 4 Samsung 40inch 4k TVs plus other TV-related prizes.William HillCompete to win William Hills Ultimate Sporting World Tour. Taking in Australia, Las Vegas and Spain, the winners will tour the world receiving the kind of sporting and gaming experiences even non-sports fans wouldnt want to miss out on.Drawing on William Hills connections, the winners will receive the full VIP treatment as they attend the football in Madrid, soak up a weekend of seasonal sport in Sydney, and take in the lights of Vegas during a weekend at the casinos.Along the way theyll get to experience life in William Hill offices across the globe  with lots of potential career opportunities along the way  a prize package only possible thanks to our contacts around the world.ZalandoZalando is Europes leading online fashion platform  a publicly traded company operating in 15 markets with more than 16 million active customers.Use Zalandos public APIs to create entirely new personalized fashion experiences with over 150.000 fashion articles. We will judge submissions based on innovation, intuitiveness and the ability to bring something unique that creates a wonderfully personalised fashion experience for the user.1st place takes home a Parrot DRONE 2.0 Elite Edition with cash prizes of 500 and 300 for 2nd and 3rd place respectively.Tickets!Were releasing the last round of tickets now, so dont miss out.We seriously cant wait to see what you come up with, but youll need to stop procrastinating and get your Hackathon tickets before theyre gone. So stop what youre doing and head on over to our ticketing page to secure your spot in the Hack. Cheers and see you this weekend!