Were excited to be hosting this years TechCrunch Disrupt SF Hackathon. Were less than a week away from the main event and are giddy with excitement.Throughout the week, well be releasing information about the event, and we figured where better to start than with details about spectator tickets, our sponsors and their awesome prizes.The last round of tickets for hackathon participantsis available now, so go quick and get registered.Today, were releasing spectator tickets for the Sunday event. Much as the name suggests, these are for those who arent hacking but want to see the the hacks and the winners. You can register for a spectator ticket here.We are happy to announce the following hackathon sponsors:.CLUB is a new top level domain that is the perfect web address for your membership or subscription based startup. If your hackathon project is about building a community of members around a passion, product or service, theres no better URL than YourName.club..CLUB is offering every Disrupt Hackathon participant a FREE* .CLUB domain name from Domain.com. Just stop by the .CLUB table to get yours. Plus, if you choose to use a .CLUB domain name for your Hackathon entry, you may have a chance to win a $5,000 cash prize for the best hackathon business in the .CLUB.The winning entrant  best project/use of a .CLUB name  will get $5,000 CASH from .CLUB. A second prize of $1,000 will be awarded to the best .CLUB name (even if the project doesnt quite rock)*Subject to name availability, first year free.The CircleCI team will reward the team with their favorite demo with $1000 Apple gift card. All you need to do to be eligible is create an account on CircleCI and perform at least one build. Be sure to include your teams GitHub usernames with your project submission. You can build any project to be eligible, but extra points may be awarded for using CircleCI extensively for your hackathon project.The Yammer Platform team will be giving away (4) Xbox Ones  Master Chief Collection Bundle, a total value of $1400, to the team that builds an the most creative and useful integration using the Yammer API.Best use of Magnet Message SDKs wins $3,000 cash and a private coaching session with Andreessen Horowitz on How to Pitch Your Business Idea to a VC.Magnet Message is a mobile communication framework that lets you easily add personalized interactions, messaging and chat to your app. Magnet Message has the APIs and features you need to add 1-to-1 and 1-to-many chat, public forums, private discussions, content feeds, and so much more. The code is free to download and Apache open source. It includes a ready-to-run server and native mobile SDKs for iOS and Android. To keep things simple for his challenge, you can use our cloud hosted Sandbox.Learn more about Magnet Message and getting started.Build a multimedia rich IOT application with the DragonBoard 410c, featuring Qualcomm Snapdragon 410 processor. Therell be 3 prizes for teams that make the most of the multimedia capabilities, which include PC-class graphics support, 1080p HD video playback and capture with H.264 (AVC) and advanced image processing: Zalando.com is Europes leading online fashion platform  a publicly traded company operating in 15 markets with more than 16 million active customers.Use Zalandos public Fashion Feed API to create entirely new personalized fashion experiences based on:We will judge submissions based on innovation, intuitiveness and the ability to bring something unique that creates a wonderfully personalised fashion experience for the user. We are offering the chance to win amazing cash prizes:Get in touch with us on Devpost (Imgmar), Twitter (@_Ingmar_), or visit tech.zalando.com.Weather drives decisions, weather drives daily habits, and weather drives lives. We are awarding $1000 in Amazon gift cards to the team that has the most interesting use of The WeatherAPI. We want to see weather data applied in new and creative ways for how people not only live their lives, but improve them.Are you developing for wearables? Just like everyone else? Cmon thats too easy. Challenge yourself on something biggerlike a car! Join the FordDev team at the Disrupt SF hackathon and build a Driveable with SYNC AppLink. Use real time vehicle data such as GPS, Fuel Level, Oil Life, and Seat Belts Status to create an app with cool features that take advantage of the all new SYNC 3 system. The best at integrating SYNC 3s capacitive touchscreen, improved voice recognition, and image display capabilities could win a 2 year lease on a SYNC 3 equipped Ford vehicle or a trip to Las Vegas for the 2016 CES to showcase their app on stage with Ford.Build the apps you will take with you on your next vacation leveraging MasterCard Developer Zone APIs. https://developer.mastercard.com/portal/dashboard.actionOur prize is a Club Sportiva Exotic Car Tour for a maximum of 5 people. https://www.clubsportiva.com/experiences/exotic-car-tourabbvieAbbVie Health HackCreate a health technology innovation by building a prototype or proof of concept for one of the following:Developer(s) and teams can win 1st place  $3,000, 2nd place  $1,500 and 3rd place  $500The Sunshine Act requires AbbVie to track payments and transfers of value made to certain healthcare professionals (HCPs) and teaching hospitals. If you win the Abbvie Health Hack and are an HCP, you will be asked to provide more information. Additional info can be found http://www.abbvie.com/responsibility/sunshine/home.htmlThis prize will be awarded to the hacker who builds the most creative or interesting use of Clovers APIs. Clover is a point of sale platform with a complete App Market. Our extensive documentation is here: https://www.clover.com/developers. To get an idea of what other developers have written and to get ideas, visit our App Market: https://www.clover.com/appmarket IBMHave a great idea on how you can build with Watson? Exercise your skills and creativity by creating a cognitive app using Watson on Bluemix. Leverage the latest in self-learning technology and get the chance to win a GoPro!!
Participate in the IBM Watson and Bluemix category to:
 Get hands-on with Watson capabilities;
 Develop an app powered by artificial intelligence;
 Give your hack team a competitive advantage;
 Increase your chances of ending up on the winners stage