Over the last few months, the LaunchKit team has released a number of tools that make it easier for app developers to launch their apps. The LaunchKit lineup now includes a review monitor, a screenshotting tool to make submitting apps to mobile stores easier, and a service for monitoring app sales. Today, LaunchKit is releasing its newest free service, which makes it very easy for developers to set up landing pages for their apps.Setting up a website for mobile apps is often an afterthought for many developers, LaunchKit co-founder Brenden Mulligan believes. Usually something is thrown together just to point people to the App Store, he told me. Typically these last minute pages arent that smart. They dont take into account what platform the user is visiting from. They dont optimize for sharing. And generally theyre not that great looking.Sothe LaunchKit team set out to make it really easy to create responsive landing pages for mobileapps.If your app is already in the App Store, you can use the service to search for it and then it will automatically import your app description, screenshots and even figure out the right color scheme for the site (based on your logo, I assume). Then you pick one of nine pre-made layouts (you can always go back and change things like colors, fonts, icons, etc.) and youre good to go.If your app isnt in Apples App Store or the Google Play Store yet, you can also enter all of your data by hand and upload your own images.LaunchKit will host the site for you, but you need to set up your own domain namefor this. Thats pretty straightforward, but given how the DNS system works, it may take up to a day before your site is actually live.Once its up and running, the new landing page will automatically adapt itself to the device you are using, so an Android user will see a link to the Play Store, and on an iPhone, youll be taken to the App Store.The sites are also set up for sharing and will automatically include the right metadata so Twitter and Facebook can show direct links to the different app stores.