Whenever many large technologyhave a new feature they want to test, they roll it out to a small set of users before letting it go live.That those companies get feedback on the feature and iron out any bugs, and also roll back the changes quickly if anything is wrong or if the users dont like it. But that requires teams of people to maintain those tools, and smaller startups dont really have the resources to build them.Now theres a startup called LaunchDarkly thats bringing those tools to other companies to do just that. The company is coming out of beta later this month, and said it has raised $2.6 million in order to invest more in its tools.Heres how it works: whenever a company tests a new feature, the code for both the original version of the tech and the new feature are both actually live. WithLaunchDarkly, a company can activate the new code for only a small set of users to test new features before launching.The company launched in 2014 whenEdith Harbaughhad a couple meetings with developers, including one who had just left Amazon. That former Amazondirectorwas upset that he didnt have the same tools that he had at Amazon, and it was a problem Harbaugh was very familiar with from her days at TripIt and other companies. For example, she dealt with a situation where a new feature was launched and it broke another part of the service, and each subsequent attempt at fixing the broken part resulted in a new broken part.Ive been in engineering for 15 years, and Ive been part of some epicly bad releases, she said. Ive seen so many releases go so bad for so many different reasons. You can never really know how your product is really gonna work until its actually out in the hands of customers. You can do usability studies, quality assurance, but its your users that are always gonna give you the feedback. That was the realizationI made  if you can get actual features out to people sooner, you can get better and better feedback.Her co-founder John Kodumal  who went to school with Harbaugh  happened to have a Ph.D. in computer science and statistics, and felt that he knew how to build the tools. So they decided to spin it into a company and have enlisted investors like SoftTech VC in order to make it a reality.The surprise to the pair, she said, was that it was a tool that larger companies were also interested in using beyond just startups. While other companies have used it as a competitive edge, it had been something that was lacking at technology companies of all sizes, meaning that there was a large market for those kinds of tools  and a massive opportunity for a company to come in and build a business.Thats because if a launch goes poorly  and many often do  it can not only alienate a user base, but also potential customers. And if too many launches go poorly, it can inadvertently drive a service, or even a business, into the ground. Many startups have become popular simply on the basis of being easier to use than other kinds of software that have poor user experiences. And tools like LaunchDarkly help startups and technology companies refine their products more quickly to fit the needs and wants of users.LaunchDarkly, like other software as a service companies, uses a subscription model for its tools. Developers get a dashboard that allows them to get real-time feedback and toggle soft launches with small sets of users. The tools apply to massive user bases or even small ones  where only 20 users end up testing the product. LaunchDarkly then integrates with other services that measure the performance and success of those new features in order to help those companies decide which ones are doing well.For now, LaunchDarkly is focusing on commerce and SaaScompanies, but a tool like this has pretty obvious implications in other parts of the tech universe.One great example is video games, where companies often roll out massive updates and patches and then proceed to hotfix things along the way, and run beta servers that allow users to opt-in to test those features. Itwould allow game developers to tweak small things and test them with a live user group  not a group that is tolerant of bugs and opts in to beta tests  and figure out which ones work.