Lavaboom, a German startup that was building a zero access secureemail service that focused on simplifying PGP encryption security to target a more mainstream user-base, is shutting down and filing forbankruptcy.Co-founder and CEO Felix Mller-Irion told TechCrunch Lavaboom intends to continuerunning its services until next week to allow time for users to migrate their data to another encrypted email provider  name-checkingTutanota and Whiteout Mail as possible alternatives.Speculation about the fate of the startup hadramped up in the past few days, after a post on Redditby an ex-Lavaboom developer claiming the startuphad runout of money. Rival encrypted email service provider Protonmailalso blogged about receiving concerned emails from Lavaboom users looking to migrate to another service.Mller-Irion says Lavaboom has some12,000 registered users in all  although, given the zero access architecture, the team cant tell how many areusing theservice. What we can measure is the output of emails send through our system which is about 1.5 per second, he adds.Why the shut down?Mller-Irion says the problems weretwo-fold: firstly relating to cash-flow, including the team having toreduce expensesafter a failedcrowdfunding campaign I was faced with a few tough decisions, he says although he also confirms he had raised a total of around280,000 from an undisclosed investor.Presumably the team burnt through thatmoney during the development process  soquestions about how well the fundsweremanaged clearly remain. According to Crunchbase Lavaboom was founded last year, at the start ofJune, so its crashing and burning in a littleover a year.I reorganized the internal structures but unfortunately that was too late, adds Mller-Irion, talking aroundthe financial difficulties. As a result we had to let go of Piotr [Zduniak, the contract developer who posted the Reddit claims about mismanaged funds].We needed to cut down on expenses pretty quickly.Theres clearly no love lost betweenMller-Irion and Piotr at this point. Mller-Irion describes the latter as a butthurt kid with too much allowance and says the team didnt know for way too long that he was only 16. We therefore had to cut a lot of corners to communicate with him while we were in the office, because he was in school!While, inhis Reddit post,Piotr identifies himself as one of the key cost centres for Lavaboom.To be honest, Lavaboom had a lotmoney, but didnt use it correctly, he writes. One of the most expensive assets were services of freelancers such as me.How Lavaboom came to hire  and be forced to rely upon  a schoolkid is another question. And one which ultimately reflects poorly on the quality of the decisions being made by the founders. Not for nothing doinvestors obsessabout the teamthey are investing in.Mller-Irion admitsPiotr was the only one with sufficient knowledge of the backend  by way of explaining why hewas employed for as long as he was.We later found out that Piotr was planning his own version of Lavabooms API and was developing this as a side project! he adds.And while Mller-Irion claims the startup did have two VCs seriously interested in investing, he says those leads went coldafter they found out about the financial situation we were in and the rumors started to spread.The second issue which Mller-Irion mentions to explainthe shut down is an ongoing criminal investigation involving theLavaboomemail service thathe says he cant talk about for legal reasons.I will not compromise any user-data.So far we did not get a request to hand over any of our unuseful user-data. Since I do not want to risk it and the financial situation were in I chose to file for insolvency.I dont think I would want to do a security company again. Its really tough and you need a lot of money to get it off the ground before you may get an ROI, or your MRR starts showing significant results, he adds.Lavaboomscode is already open source (hosted on Github),but Mller-Irion says that it will also beopening up other elements such asinternal server configs.Update:Zduniak has now responded to a request for his side of the story. Firstly he points out that although he was 16 at the time he started working for Lavaboom hed been programming since the age of eight.He also reiterates thatpoormoney management and badrecruitmentdecisionswerea key part of Lavabooms woes.After I joined the team, we only found one good freelancer, who ended up developing the whole web client. The company wasted a lotof money on freelancers who had no idea about what they were doing, blatantly lied to us or worked pretty damn slow. Neither Andrei [CTO], nor me had the will to fire them after a week. I always thought about giving them a second chance and Andrei was just a good-hearted man. We ended up spending relativelya lot of money on freelancers who frequently broke more stuff than they fixed.Zduniak saysa specific personalityclash between him and another member of the teamalsocaused conflict starting around May this year.By June, he says the freelancers were told that their hourly contracts would be terminated, and they would instead be paid for fixed milestones  causing further disagreement, and ultimately leading to him to be kicked off the team when the side-project he startedworking on was eventually discovered:I didnt agree to [fixed milestones], we frequently argued. Usually I would have leave the project back then, but I was very commited to its success. After two weeks of arguing over 200EUR, I was told that Andrei would take over the development. I could clearly sense that it would not work, as Andrei would simply promise stuff that he would never complete. In my free time, I decided to work on a service similar to Lavaboom, which would be opensource and have all the stuff that was incorrectly designed rewritten. I didnt tell anyone about it and slowly made progress.Zduniak describes Lavaboom as my brainchild  and says he designed the whole crypto model, and came up with some pretty good ideas which simplified the usage of encrypted emails, while not decreasing the security of users data  saying it was his commitment to the project which kept him working in an environment he didnt like for as long as he did.And also ultimately pushed him to start work on an open source version of Lavaboom.Maybe if they used basic logic, the company would have survived, he adds. Right now Im even glad that this stuff is happening, at least users will be free from the terrible organization that Lavaboom GmbH was.