The post-Snowden boom in strongly encrypted servicescontinues. To wit: Lavaboom, a made-in-Germany encrypted email service, which is currently in beta and seeking a $100,000 crowdfunding raise via Indiegogoto get a fully featured product to market.Co-founder, Felix Mller-Irion, says the idea for Lavaboom came in the wake of U.S. encrypted email serviceLavabits shut down back in 2013. Building a similar service in Germany, with its robust privacy laws, was the business opportunity the team spied.I came to the conclusion that encrypted email is the only way to go forward with this, saysMller-Irion. German privacy laws are among the best in the world. There would be huge public outrage if they were to be overlooked.Theyre not the only Europeans with this idea; others playing in the end-to-end encrypted email space include the likes ofTutanota (also German) and Swiss-based ProtonMail, to name two.Lavaboom is aiming to differentiate itszero knowledge, PGPend-to-end encrypted email service by focusing on simplifying the user experience. Users dont need to trouble themselves with manually generating and exchanging encryption keys.We focus a lot on UX and UI, so we actually put the design process into the front of our minds. Im from a UI and UX background Its focused on giving the users the best possible experience with the least amount of friction possible, saysMller-Irion.We use JavaScript. All encryption happens on your browser We as a company cant look into the contents of your emails because they will be encrypted and decrypted only on your device, he adds. We focus on integrating known standards, on the PGP encryption tool Thats what we use on all our assets.Metadata is also obfuscated via Lavaboom so that it appears as if the address it was sent from comes from the startups offices in Cologne a partial solution to the hard problem of securingemail metadata (Lavabits founders are working on reworking email messaging protocols to develop a secure end-to-end messaging protocolthat can provide encryption of both message content and the email in transit  aka the Dark Mail project).Lavaboom hasfully open sourced its code, and is hosting it on Github where outsiders can dive in tocheck its claims. It launched a beta version of the email service around a week ago, and Mller-Irion says some 200,000emails have been delivered viaits system thusfar.The target audience at the moment is really only for privacy-oriented people however we want to bring this to everyone so that every [consumer] and elderly person can use our service and send encrypted emails, he adds.The team isoffering the encrypted webmail service free for individual users, with 2GB of storage going toIndiegogo backers, and 1GB for general users. Monetization plans focus on a white label b2b product that companies will be able to run on their own servers for a fee. A premium version of Lavaboom will also likely be offered where users can buy more storage if needed.The current web-based beta version of Lavaboom, which has been in development for around a year, is pretty limited in terms of feature set. The plan is to flesh that out withthe usual stuff you would expect from your Gmail account or whatever youre using, as Mller-Irion puts it, so things like the ability to import and export contacts, create and store drafts, send and view attachments and so on.Also on the slate for the future is offering iOS and Android version of the Lavaboom client, and a desktop version of the web-based client.He addsLavaboom alsohas plans to build out additional encrypted services, such as a Dropbox-style cloud storage offering and perhaps an encrypted calendar module.