As expected, the FCCs recently passed net neutrality regulations came under freshlegal fire today. USTelecom, a telecommunications-focused trade group, filed suit, calling the FCCs open Internet regulations arbitrary and capricious.The FCC passed net neutrality regulations this year on a party-line vote of 3 to 2, reclassifying broadband under Title II of the Communications Act. The vote brought jeers and applausefrom Congress and the larger technology industry. Republican leadership in Congress and large Internet service providers opposed the vote, while Democrats and other swaths of the technology industry were in favor.The USTelecom suit is notable in that it doesnt oppose net neutralityper se, but instead hits the FCCs approach to the issue. In a release, the group argued that its appeal is not focused on challenging the objectives articulated by [President Obama], but instead the unjustifiable shift [by the FCC] backward to common carrier regulation[.]What does USTelecom want? According to its filing, the group wants a review of the Order, which it feels is an abuse of discretion within the meaning of the AdministrativeProcedure Act, and violates federal law, including, but notlimited to, the Constitution, [and] the Communications Act of 1934.Thats quite a lot. The FCC, in response to the suit, told TechCrunch in a statementthat it is confident that itsnew rules will be upheld by the courts.The FCC has said similar things in the past, with both the Chairman of the FCC Tom Wheeler, and one of his top lawyers, Gigi Sohn, going on the record to state emphatically that the their agency will prevail in court. Sohn called the new net neutrality rules grounding in more than one legal foundation akin to wearing both a belt and suspenders, a standard clich for over-preparedness that she used in a tongue-in-cheek fashion.The agency anticipated the legal challenge, making the suit the precise opposite of a surprise. Sohn, in the same interview as previously quoted, called lawsuits against the FCCs net neutrality regulations inevitable.Chairman Tom Wheeler is joining TechCrunch next month at Disrupt NY for an interview. Dont miss it.