Its been a year in the making.Transit startup Leap is finally launching in San Francisco with completely overhauled buses and a route from the Marina to the downtown area.The startup, which is trying to rethink mass transit, is competing with a host of other shared transitcompanies from Y Combinator-backed Chariot to ride-pooling startup Loup and, of course, Uber and Lyft.Leap, however, is aimed at regular commuters who are doing a predictable route every day and may not want to jump for the price points of on-demand services like UberPool and Lyft Line. Tickets cost $6 individually or $5 in packs of 20. If you use commuter benefits, you can get the cost down to $4 a ride, according to co-founder Kyle Kirchhoff.The busescirculate every 10 to 15 minutes and take about 25 minutes to go from one end of the line on Lombard Streetto the other end in the Downtown area. The service runs during peak commute hours from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.Thekey differentiator from other bus startupslike Chariotis how Leap has rethought the entire internal experience of the bus. They bought old NABI buses and refurbished them with plush interior seating, Wi-Fi, USB ports and bar stools for working on laptops. They run on natural gas.Were really building an entirelydifferentexperience inside. Every single material in this bus was really thought through, Kirchhoff said. This is kind ofa blend between a coffee shop, a workspace and something that feelslike your living room.The on-boarding process uses a quick QR code scan on an iPhone or an Android device, or if you have Bluetooth enabled, it will do it automatically. If you dont have a smartphone, you can print paper passes. The same apps can also be used to purchase food and drinks from Blue Bottle Coffeeto Happy Moose Juice.Theres an opt-in part of the app where you can choose to share a little bit of information about yourself and learn about who is riding along with you.They also give live updates on where buses are along the route and how many seats are left. Leap doesnt use anyexisting MUNI stops and consulted with the San FranciscoMTA about designing routes that would not interfere with public transit. Leapbuses are not also currently accessible to wheelchair-using or disabled passengers, but Kirchhoff plans to add that in future buses.SanFranciscofaces some very real challenges. Taxis are impossible to hail. Private car services are extremely expensive at peak times, Kirchhoff said. We built something with aneye tocomplement the overall system.It is, of course, apolitically sensitive timeto be launching anything in San Francisco around buses, given the Google bus blockades from the last year.But there ishistorical precedent in the city for a mix of both public and private solutions to transit.Many of the citys older streetcar lines were originally created by entrepreneurs in the late 1800s or early 20th century, then were later purchased and absorbed into MUNI after the emergence of the private automobile challenged their financial viability. Then,private jitney services ranthrough the city for about 60 years, covering inter-citytransit gaps that were later addressed by the regional BART system.Some critics have raised worriesthatthese bus startups, like Chariot andcompetitor Leap Transit,will cause the broader public to disinvest in the citys municipal transit system. (Back in the 1970s, the city actually stopped issuing jitney licenses and voters backed a ballot initiative protecting MUNI on this very concern.)But at this point, MUNI handles 700,000 passenger boardings per day. Leap is running four buses, with one in reserve, and probablyhandling fewerthan 1,000 people per day.Political support for mass transit also continues to be pretty strong, with the city voters passing a $500 million bond for transit last year. Notably, it was the first bond supporting MUNI that the city was able to pass in nearly 70 years. The regions politicalleaders are alsostarting to seriously discuss a second Transbay Tube for BART, whichwill ease overcrowding to the East Bay but will probably take several decades to build.We take a really long-term view of this thing, Kirchhoff said. Theres a sort of invisible boundary if part of a city is not accessible to transit.Leap is backed with $2.5 million fromAndreessen Horowitz, Index Ventures, Slow Ventures and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff.