Lenovo is in hot water today after asignificant security holewas unearthed, potentially affectits entire consumerPC range.Superfish, an adware program that ships with all consumer PCs from Lenovo, uses a man-in-the-middle certificate to inject ads into internet browsers. If compromised, the service could grantthird-parties access to a users browser data.We contacted Lenovo for comment but did not hear back from the company at the time of writing.Writing on a customer forum in January, company representative Mark Hopkins confirmed customers suspicionsthat Lenovo pre-loads software from the visual search company,as The Next Web reported.He further explained that the software had been temporarily removed due to some issues, which apparently includedunexplained pop-ops. Superfish had been told to push an update to existing devices in the market, he added.Pre-installs are unpopular withconsumers, who understandably want their devices to be clean running out of the box, but in reality some hardware companies do broker such arrangements for financial benefit. Beyond the inconvenience of Superfishpopping up in browsers and the need to install it, the software appears to pose a serious security threat because it uses a self-signed root that could allow it to collect data from within a users web browser.Furthermore,it is possible that thirdparties couldgenerate the key to the Superfish certificate and take advantage of it for nefarious activities,as pointed out on Hacker News.Personal data areas like banking would be one obvious area of concern, and a spoofed bankofamerica.com certificate, per this tweet  just one ofthe many on the subject shows what is possible:This is a problem. #superfish http://t.co/jKDfSo99ZR Kenn White (@kennwhite) February 19, 2015To make matters worse, it appearsthat deleting the Superfish software doesnt remove the certificate (and threat) from a Lenovo machine.Hopkinsmade claimsabout how the Superfish integrate works and doesnt work:Superfish technology is purely based on contextual/image and not behavioral. It does not profile nor monitor user behavior. It does not record user information. It does not know who the user is. Users are not tracked nor re-targeted. Every session is independent.However, the fact that user data and security is at stake is rightly raising alarm among Lenovo customers and security experts.On a related note,British spy agencies are reported to have banned the use of Lenovo devices in their organizations on account of vulnerabilities that could allow devices to be hacked.