
Alex Bard is the CEO of Campaign Monitor.I started mylastcompanyin mid-2009, just as the market was beginning to recover from the fallout of the financial crisis. In the past several years, surrounded by fast-growth startups with sky-high valuations, many of us forgot what thedownturnfelt like.Today, things are changing. Again, were facing economic uncertainty on a global scale the S&P 500 began 2016 with itsworst performancesince 2008, andplunging share pricesfor companies like LinkedIn and Tableau show that the tech industry is no exception.Thelastrecession taught me that challenging market conditions offer advantages, like less competition and better access to talent. My co-founders and I recognized an opportunity, and explored dozens of ideas for a new business before landing on a customer service tool for small and medium businesses. We builtAssistlyinto a successfulcompanyand were acquired by Salesforce in 2011.As tech funding begins to dry up and the markets waver, entrepreneurs need to adjust their approach. ThelessonsI learned fromstartingacompanyafter thelasteconomic meltdown apply today: Dont get caught up in growth-at-all-costs without considering the followingWe chose to pursue the idea for Assistly because we knew it solved a real problem. Businesses need to invest in customer support no matter what  youve probably heard thatit costs less to keep a customer happythan to acquire a new one, and weve found that to be true. In any economic cycle, but especially a tough one, you dont want to do something sexy; you want to do something foundational. If you create something people need, youll thrive when the markets are low, as well as when theyre high.In 2009, we needed to bet more conservatively than we might have in 2013 or 2014. Ultimately, it was a smart decision. Many of our other ideas would have involved more risk: unproven market fit, a learning curve for our founding team and considerably more capital from outside investors. In that climate, we couldnt afford it.Our founding team had domain experience in customer service. Wed all worked in the industry in some capacity, and we knew how to monetize the product. We could hit the ground running, which meant less time spent learning on the job and making costly mistakes. This baseline gave us more runway (and confidence) to get started in a tough cycle.We surveyed the market to create a prototype and identified the clothing brandBonobosas our ideal customer; theyre tech-savvy, they take pride in their customer support organization and theyre active on social media. As it turns out, their needs were significantly different than what wed imagined. We worked closely with them to rebuild a core part of the product, then began to roll out this version among other early customers. Once we had 10 major customers on board, including Twitter and Yelp, it was time to raise money.Over three months, we met withmore than30 VCs and got ~30 nos before our first yes. We heard a variety of reasons for passing, many of which contradicted each other. Most investors seemed shell-shocked by what had happened in 2008; they just werent ready.True Ventures eventually said yes, in part because one of their partners had worked with me at AOL. Even with this relationship, it was difficult to secure a $1.7 million Series A a sum that in 2014 would have been considered a seed round. It was huge for us.Phil Black, True Ventures founding partner, asked us right off the bat how much of the $1.7 million we planned to burn, so we created a plan for curbing spending. We hired conservatively and carefully planned the unit economics of the business: the revenue and costs associated with each user. We released our beta version three months after funding and started to charge for the product shortly thereafter. We quickly saw revenue growth.When theres a surfeit of venture capital in the marketplace, as we saw in 2013 and 2014, founders have more leverage when it comes to fundraising. The result is fast growth, high burn rates, bigger funding rounds and inflated valuations. In a volatile market, like the one were seeing today, startups need to break even or at least have a realistic plan to get there  before continuing to grow.In a tough economic climate, positive cash flow is the best leverage you can bring to an investment conversation. Youre more appealing to investors, and you dont need outside investmentto survive. You can fuel your growth with revenue rather than with venture capital, and that means you have more control over the future of your business.Product-market fit and profitable growth are the biggest factors I consider when investing in acompanyor working at one. Theyre a large part of the reason I joinedCampaign Monitor, an email marketing provider that the founders successfully monetized, with no outside investment, for more than 10 years. The past eight years have underscored the cyclical nature of the economy  and the need for businesses built on fundamentals rather than growth-for-growths-sake.