DocSend, astartup thatprovides peoplewith a secure and private way of sharing files like offer letters or legal agreements,studied more than 200 pitchdecks to figure out the right way to graduate from bootstrapped to seed-funded, or from angels to a Series A.They partnered with Harvard Business School professor Tom Eisenmann to look at companies that had raised $360 million in total.What did they find? You can see the whole study here.Anyway, they discovered that companies neededan average of 40 investor meetings and took a little over 12 weeks to close a round. Investors dont look at pitch decks for very long  just an average of 3 minutes and 44 seconds.There wasntreally any correlation between more meetings and more funding. If you contact more investors, youll get more meetings.But there is nocorrelation between the number of investors contacted and the amount of money raised.Its better to go find firms that are already aligned with what your company does and target them first.Then, seed funds can move faster and provide moremoney than angels. The averageamount of time it took to raise from firms was four weeks shorter than the amount of time it took to raise from angels. Also,rounds that were ledby firms tended to be 36.8 percent oversubscribed while angel rounds were 18.9 percent oversubscribed.If youre doing a seed deck, here are the 10 slides that youll probably want to include. Obviously, the Team slide is a given. But youll also want to add slides describing the companys purpose, its market size and its competition.The slide deck ordering that DocSend found was the most successfulis pretty similar to what Sequoia Capitals recommended order is for entrepreneurs. The only things that were switched were putting the product and team earlier in the order, rather than later.The most important pages are the financials, team and competition, according to how long investors study them.Closinga funding round is a matter of persistence. Fifteen percent of rounds took zero to five weeks to close, but there was a huge level of variance beyond that. Nearly half of the rounds took 11 to 15 weeks to close, with 17 percent taking 16 weeks or longer.Interestingly enough, despite what youve read about the Series A crunch, these later-stage rounds took less time than seed rounds. Companies in DocSends sample took 9.6 weeks to close an A round and only needed to contact an average of 26 investors. Of course, the sample size in this study very small so it is probably not representative, co-founder Russ Heddleston tells me.The split in areas from consumer to enterprise to hardware isnt that surprising.Consumer startups made up the largest share of funding rounds, which isnt thatunexpected since its cheaper and less risky to launch a minimum viable product in this space. That wasmatched by enterprise, and then followed by marketplace and then hardware startups.