
Will Wagner joined SurveyMonkey  in 2010 and currently serves as the companys VP of Engineering where he manages the growing troop of engineers.Dave Goldberg was a fantastic leaderand his untimely passing was tough for those of us who worked for him at SurveyMonkey.He was not only a great boss, which many can confirm, but he also was a visionary on a new, better way to build a high tech business.A lot of young entrepreneurs think a CEO should be like Steve Jobs and try to emulate him. In my opinion, you would be much better served emulating Dave. He was the type of leader we need in high tech and one you rarely see.Heres what I learned watching Dave.When I interviewed at SurveyMonkey almost five years ago, I was struck by the fact that no one had offices, including the CEO. Now SurveyMonkey is almost 10 times its former size with a new fancy office in downtown Palo Alto, but the same philosophy holds true.Im not arguing for or against open seating plans; thats something other people can hash out. The point is, our office layout is one small indicator that Dave wanted to build a team that was open, transparent, and based on solving problems together. He wasnt interested in building a class hierarchy.It still shows as part of our office culture today, where we are focused on solving problems. Sure we have managers, directors and VPs like any other company our size, but our culture centers on the belief that good ideas can come from anywhere, and if there is a problem to solve, its about getting it done rather than assigning blame. Its a culture of cooperation and collaboration, and Dave established that mentality early on in our companys development.Dave was a busy executive but had time to listen to peoples ideas, concerns and criticisms. When you disagreed with Dave, he was smart and talented enough to almost always be on the right side of that argument. But beyond being right, he understood the value of hearing all sides of an argument.When I disagreed with him, Dave would actively listen to my argument, ask questions to make sure he fully understood what I was saying, and make me feel heard. If he ultimately disagreed with me, he would take a considerable amount of time making sure I understood his perspective, highlighting the underlying facts and explaining how the decision was derived. For Dave, decisions were based on data, not personality or pecking order.Lessons for Upcoming CEOs:Daves wife, Sheryl Sandberg, is famous for her position on gender equality, and Dave built SurveyMonkey around those same principles. There are more female executives here than any other place Ive worked and a large percentage of managers and directors throughout the organization are women. Were proud of the gender ratio of our engineering staff, which is substantially above the average for companies our size.On the engineering side, for the code we write and the platform we continue to build, we want to make sure our technology stack has a long shelf life. Dave felt the same way about our workforce, building a team that is focused on teamwork and cooperation, providing a workplace that is flexible for people with families and interests outside of work, and making sure to provide opportunities for growth.Dave believed strongly in promoting from within and giving people a chance to grow. He rooted for people to succeed and always gave them opportunities to grow. He knew that passion and aptitude can be better than experience. It keeps your culture intact, your employees engaged, and your turnover amazingly low.Lessons for Upcoming CEOs:Dave also believed strongly in giving employees equity and ownership in SurveyMonkey. Not only did he think it was highly motivational, but was a matter of fairness for employees. Behind the scenes, during new investments and recaps, he worked tirelessly on behalf of employees to limit dilution and to make sure employees were getting treated well. He didnt do things like that because he had to or even that the average employee would really even know  he did it because it was fair and right.Dave had high standards and wanted a team that was productive. We have an obligation to our customers and investors to build great products and provide great support. Teamwork and collaboration are part of our core values but if someone does not have the skills to do their job, its not fair to that person or their colleagues to have to carry that burden. The pact Dave had with his team was that you work hard and work smart, and when the company succeeds, you deserve to enjoy part of that success.Lessons for Upcoming CEOs:Most of the media coverage about Dave mentions his wife, Sheryl Sandberg. She clearly is a fantastic leader and spokesperson for gender diversity and women, and deserves the international recognition she receives for her efforts. Dave, by his own accord and before they ever became a couple, was a successful entrepreneur, CEO, and investor. Most strong personalities would bristle at the perception of being overshadowed and might balk as being introduced (as he often was) as Dave Goldberg, CEO of SurveyMonkey and Husband of Sheryl Sandberg.Dave took that phrase the way someone might take the phrase CEO and Professional Race Car Driver. Not only am I a great CEO and leader, but Im also a badass race car driver. Dave was clearly in love with his wife and very proud of her, and it showed. She was part of his life story and part of who he was. Being a leader isnt about taking credit or soaking up the limelight; its about living a genuine life, solving problems for your team and your company, and being proud of the people you surround yourself with.Lessons to Upcoming CEOs:Amid the sadness, there is a part of me that is very angry about Daves passing. Im mad that Daves kids dont have their father and Sheryl doesnt have her husband. Im mad our companys leader is no longer here and, selfishly, Im mad that I didnt get to spend as much time as I could have learning from him. Im also mad more people, especially future leaders, didnt get to know him or experience his unique style of leadership. Silicon Valley and corporate America would be a better place if more people led their companies like Dave.Daves style was that it wasnt about Dave the person. It was about living and managing by a set of ideals. It was about being fair, being thoughtful, expecting the best in people, and letting them be successful. There arent many people that could be like Dave; he was so smart, driven, kind and principled all at the same time. But I can guarantee you, if more people emulated Dave, the world would be a better place.