Its been a pretty awfulyear to be a unicorn in 2015.Box and Square went public this year at significantly less than their last private valuation, Box at a 30percentdiscount and Square at a 40 percent discount.Meanwhile,Gilt Groupe, a New York-based online shopping destination for designer clothing, is in talks to be bought for $250 million. Thats lessthan the $268 million it hasraised from investorsand an even further cry from the$1.1 billionvaluationit was assigned inAugust 2014.Altogether, just five companies with billion-dollar-plus valuationshave gone public this year. They include Box (in January), Shopify (May), Pure Storage (October),Square (November), and Atlassian (December) as seen here on the CrunchBase Unicorn Leaderboard.Thats a small number,compared withthe 156 companies globally that are privately valued at above $1 billion, according to CrunchBase. In comparison, CrunchBase tracked 88 private unicorns this time a year ago.There wasnt much in the way of major M&A activity either. Justfour unicornswere acquired during 2015, and twowere acquired at significantlyless than their last private valuation:Fab, which sold for the fire-sale price ofat $12 million, and Good Technology, which sold for 65percentless than itslast private valuation of$425 million.Two that did better wereZulily, which had gone publicin 2013 with a valuation of around $2.6billionand was acquired this year by QVC for roughly the same amount, and Lynda,which soldto LinkedIn for $1.5 billion or26 percentmore its venture investors had valued it.Part of the problem is that some of these companies genuinely arent ready. Then theres also the muchdiscussedargument that Silicon Valley companies are reacting to a deep-seated antipathy for going publicfollowing the dot-com burst of2000, followed by the financial crisisof2008.Whether true or not, the rationale for some companies todayis that its better toraise more money in the private market rather than in the public markets  and in some cases, much more.Uber has raised $6.3 billion and Airbnb $3.5 billion in the last two years. In fact, theaverage private raise for a unicorn is more than$500 million, and the median is $275 million.Thefive unicorn companies that wentpublicthis yearcollectively raised just over $1.4 billion. When VCs invest $800millionin Magic Leap, its because theybelieveit could be worth $8 billion at some point. When investors poured$3.3 billion into Uber, as they did overthe course this year,at a $50 billionvaluation, theywere undoubtedly thinking thatUber will become a$150billion-plus exit opportunity.For investors, finding and funding those high-growth companies is critical to their success, and theyre everywhere, increasingly. North America is home to the most unicorns, including one company, Kik, in Canada. Meanwhile,28 unicorns are based in China;15 in Europe; 6 in India;andSouth East Asia, Korea and Israel each feature2 unicorns of their own.Collectively, the 156 private companies with unicorn club status represent $528 billion in total private valuation and have raised north of $81 billion in aggregate,according to the CrunchBase Leaderboard.More look to bejoining the club soon, too. On the emerging list,CrunchBase is tracking a further 39 companies thatare valued between $500millionand $1 billion.Bill Gurley, a general partner at Benchmark, stressed earlier this yearthat the late-stage financing of companies is a very different financing event from a public offering, where the scrutiny and focus on profitability of a company can be intense.As he wrote in his blog, Above the Crowd, As these late-stage private companies digest these large fund raises, they are pushing profitability further and further into the future, as well as the proof that their business model actually works.Gurley argued that: Lost in this conversation are the dramatic differences between a high priced private round and an IPO.Yettherein liesthe opportunity that investors are chasing. The notion of a bubble or bust is simply too generic. Some companies will flame out. Some companies will be billion dollar exits. And some will be a successes on a scale that were only now beginning to understand is possible.