The crowning glory ofAmazons just dropped post-Thanksgiving press missive trumpeting apparently acceleratingholiday sales  is the lack of any actual metrics.Were excited that millions of customers will be opening new Amazon devices this holiday season. This has already been the biggest holiday shopping season for Amazon devices, and were energized by the year over year growth for all of our product categories, said Dave Limp, Senior Vice President, Amazon Devices.Full credit to Amazons devices SVPfor sounding soenergized. Thing is though, as per usual, there are no actual numbers in the press release. Pretty much thebest you get is millions of customers.Which of course tells us zero. Nada. Zilch.Orthe hundreds of thousands of Kindles Amazon claimswerebought over the weekend. Albeit the e-reader wasfirst released waaaaay back in 2007, andis into itsseventh gen iteration these days. So thats hundreds of thousands acrossscores ofmodels, perhaps sold new or maybe also being recounted as clocked upused device sales via Amazons marketplace. We can but speculate.Sure, Amazon might havecollectively sold more hardwarethan it did last year, given its getting to define all its own measurement parameters and not telling uswhat they are.It might even havehad its best ever shopping weekend  especially asthat phrase doesnt really have a fixedmeaning either.And it might even be managing year over year growth inall its device categories. After all, the companydid justexecutea swift exit outof the smartphone categorysoonafter its June 2014 forayinto said categoryfailed, resoundingly, to light buyers fires.But without knowing exactly how many devices it winkled into customers hands in 2014  perhaps at slashing discounts, as it ended up applyingto clear inventory ofits Firephone flop then we really cant draw any solid conclusions about the performance of Amazon hardware in 2015.And thats how Amazon likes it.6x or 3x an unknown quantity isnt a statement worth making. It isnt even a statement. Its an obfuscation.Still, crafting a holiday momentum press release without includingany actualmetrics is animpressive, year over year performance in and of itself.Weve asked Amazon if it has any actual sales figures it would like toshare and well update this post with anyresponse. But I wouldnthold your breath.