Tower above your army of monsters, lean across the battlefield and make your opponents face explode. Thats Dragon Front, a virtual reality card game coming to Oculus Rift. While many VR games see you flailing your arms or head about, or swinging swords and shooting bows and arrows, Dragon Front is decidedly more chill.Thats not to say its boring. In fact, its what could make Dragon Front so addictive. Its easy to lose track of time as you summon warriors and attack your enemys fortress. Because Dragon Front wont physically or mentally exhaust you with twitchy gameplay, you can sustain much longer sessions inside the headset.Developed by High Voltage, a 23-year-old game studio, Dragon Front will be available for Oculus Rift in Q2 2016, though not right at launch. The company previously worked on some of the Mortal Kombat games and will also release a first-person shooter called Damaged Core for Oculus.In Dragon Front, you get cards with creatures and spells that you can play each turn as you try to destroy your enemys forces and their castle. You can play online against real humans from around the world.To make Dragon Front feel like youre interacting with a real, physical card game, High Voltage actually built one. It started with drawings on note cards, then they made cards, then prototypes of miniatures, before finally developing the VR game.High Voltages Chief Creative OfficerEric Nofsinger tells me We wanted to encapsulate the feeling of playing across the table from someone elsebeing able to lean forward and look at the table top with a sense of immediacy you dont get out of a traditional 2D  card game.Thats a slight dig at games like World of Warcrafts Hearthstone for mobile, which has become insanely popular but locks all the action into a tiny screen. Dragon Front makes it happen all around you. Your fortress is splayed out beneath you. You can see a mask representing your opponent mimicking their real gestures as they peer at their cards and characters. You can trash talk them on VoIP. Andcertain spells evenimpactyour ability to see the battlefield.I played for 40 minutes, a relatively long VR session, and time flew by. Perhaps the only drawback of pushing collectible card games into VR is that you cant multi-task while you wait during your opponents turn. I found myself trying and mostly failing to peek out of the bottom of my headset to check my phone.Ill say it again, virtual reality is going to be wildly addictive. Theres always this sense of guilt when you play a physical card game, on mobile or your computer, or even a console first-person shooter, that youre being geeky ditching the real world. Youre sitting in a darkened room staring at a table or screen.But in VR, the game becomes the world around you. Theres nothing to remind you theres another reality out there. Why would you want to return to the land of chores and jobs and actual responsibilities when you can be a powerful wizard fighting epic battles to control the realm?