Phones! TVs! Washing machines! Fridges! Tablets, probably!Samsung makes everything, and CES is the South Korean companys version of Christmas morning. That said, we have an excessive team of TechCrunchers covering the event, complete with the very live blog youre reading right now. Well show you the phones, the TVs, the washing machines and driers and fridges and even the relatively crappy tablets.And beyond the products themselves, well be providing live commentary on Samsungs theatrics during the show, as the company has gotten more and more bold in their live press conferences over the years.So sit back, relax, and get ready for some Samsung. Some sung. Whatever.Were all done here, and we sincerely thank you for bearing with us through this impossible Wifi connection. More coverage to follow. Bye, guys!And last but not least: Samsung PowerBot robotic vacuum offers 60x more suction power than traditional robotic vacuums, and lets you use a remote to map out your house and command the robot to clean a certain mess.New washing machine uses Super Speed to lower washing a load down to 36 minutes.Home appliances stuff real quick: Dual door takes the Flex duo oven (cooking at two different temps) to a new level with TWO DOORS!Samsung is building a roomba-style robot vacuum that lets you point a remote control beam to tell the vacuum where to goTheyre also releasing a Chef Collection Tablet that comes with the app pre-loaded, as well as a cute little wooden stand so you can prop that bad boy up in the kitchen.Chef Collection app was just introduced. It lets chefs walk you through various recipes.Yes I love it when Greg lies!A few chefs have come on stage to talk about how they collaborated on design.i lied! here you go:
That said, the new Chef Collection looks SICK. Like kitchen appliances from the future.my wifi tanked for a second. sorry guys, no pics of refrigerators for you!Now were watching a video of Club des Chefs. Again ??Theyve put a kitchen model up on stage, with a washing machine, oven, microwave and fridge.Were watching a video of people cooking. ??Hes going over 2014s appliances sales. He says theyre up 10 percent in sales in home appliances.John Herrington, SVP of Samsung Electronics America is now on stage.He just stepped off stage and said thank you. Not sure what will happen next.Milk Music is coming to the Multi-Room app so that users can play the content they like on Milk using Samsungs connected home tech.Its a omni-directional speaker that kindalooks like a turret from portalSamsung introduces the omni-directional sound experience. the Wam7500 & 6500 projects sound in all directions using ring radiator technology.They have a brand new Samsung Audio Lab, and theyre showing a video about it.Were moving from what you see to what you hear. Audio products.Tizen is taking advantage of the second screen trend by sending content to your tablet or smartphone as you watch sports, such as replays, stats, etc.Tizen uses Quick Connect to let you throw content from TV to phone, or vice versa.All Samsung Smart TVs, starting this year, will be powered by the Tizen operating system, says Won-Jin Lee.The pedestal (see top):Thats why it comes with a special pedestal that props it up, and controls the TV so that it faces the viewer as soon as its turned on. Pretty cool.Curved TV is sculptural.Or, if you do need an introduction: hes the chief creative officer at jawbone, designer of the one-laptop-per-child laptop, Ouya, and a ton of other hardware. Hes designed for herman miller, puma, GE, and, of course, Samsung.Yay another guest! Yves Behar, who really doesnt need any introduction. Incredible designer.Now were talking about the design of the S UHD TVs the new chamfer bezel looks stylish from any angle.Its still unclear, spec-wise, how S UHD is different from UHD. Its The BEST picture technology, with the best content, thanks to the UHD Alliance.Nakamura totally loves S UHD. Were shocked.Theyre using S the same way they did with the Galaxy S. S stands for [superb, or slick, or some other good adjective that starts with S here].These guest appearances are so awkward. I love it.Color is at the heart of this, so Samsung is bringing up Stephen Nakamura who is a digital colorist.no word on what signifies traditional.64x the color expression of traditional tvsHe introduced a brand new TV that features S UHD I think the S is for Samsung.Im guessing Samsung. Or Super. Or Spaghetti. Probably Samsung.Now were back with Stinziano: hes introducing something called S UHD. Theres a TV that looks like its exploding or being struck with lightning. Still no word on what the S stands for.The space is evolving rapidly, so the UHD Alliance is a huge step forward for the industry. Bring home the premium experience that only true UHD offers. Seems to be taking a shot at Sonys UHD.Mike Dunn, President of Home Entertainment at 20th Century Fox is on stage. Focused on breaking down barriers to give the user a better experience.Were bringing together a UHD ecosystem by bringing together DirectTV, Dolby Vision, Netflix, Panasonic, Sharp, technicolor, Disney, 20th Century Fox and Warner Brothers as part of the UHD Alliance, a newly formed group.Hes talking about how Samsung is the TV market leader because people want to own a Samsung.Joe Stinziano, EVP of Samsung Electronics America, is on stage.Davids gone, and now were heading into some more announcements. Weve heard there is no new phone to be unveiled, but maybe that was planted to throw us off the scent.NBA will also be a partner for Milk VR, giving users access to exclusive content from their favorite teams and players. Ideally.Relatively awkward celebrity appearance, but Walking Dead fans should be excited that walkers may come to VR.The producer of the Walking Dead is talking about how theyll be using Milk VR to push the boundaries of story tellingSamsung is also introducing Milk VR, which lets brands create content that takes advantage of the Samsung Gear VR, a VR headset that uses the Galaxy Note as a display/power source.Milk Music will also be hitting up a PC near you in 2015.Milk Music and Milk Video: headed to Samsung Smart TVs.Moving on to the really juice stuff, semiconductor and storage space. Introduces Samsung portable SSD TI. smaller than a business card and holds up to 1TB of content.See how well unlock the power of your digital technology.Samsungs focus is to pair great technology with content and services. Starts with IoT.Now talking about appliances, wearables and smartphones. Generally just hearing a lot of marketing speak right now.Expects big things for UHD in the next year.Says they have 60 percent of the UHD market. Up 5 percent from last year.As a leader we understand the responsibility of creating new markets. We do this in three ways: 1. largest UHD lineup. 2. large UHD library on Samsung TVs. 3. Distribution through 8,000 Samsung retail experiences.Tim Baxter is on stage: We want to make it possible for people to live their passions. Make these passions come to life. This is what drove our innovation. Stuff like that.Samsungs tag line is Creating Possibilities: Shaping The Future  JIC you were wondering.Were trying to get you images ASAP but Samsungs craptastic Wifi offerings here arent helping. Luckily the iPhone lets you tether! Hold tight.Were here, and the room is slowly filling up. Should take a while, as the line trailed around many a corners.