Im at the W Hotel in San Francisco to hear Xiaomi President Lin Bin and VP Hugo Barra give their pitch to Silicon Valley.Weve been told we shouldnt expect an announcement of the company bringing its products to the US, so the impression weve gotten is that this is about explaining what Xiaomi really does.Why does it need to do that, you ask?Well, most people see headlines describing the company as the Apple of China and see their phones and think, well they must be a premium phone maker. Thats mostly right  except when you compare their prices to Apple or Samsungs premium models. Basically, they make devices people aspire in China or India can aspire to ownand eventually obtain. Of course, as more people move into higher income tiers in those countries, there is a market for even higher-priced devices  hence the more expensive models Xiaomi debuted last month.Along with not getting the actual segment Xiaomi is going for, most people in the Valley understand that Xiaomi wants to build services atop its devices, but probably couldnt tell you what those services are. Xiaomi will likely clear up that confusion for Western techies during its presentation today.Lin Bin and Hugo Barra just wrapped Q/A. Now we get to go play with devices.No set time for US mi.com launch. Hugo Barra says it will happen when its ready.Lin Bin continues to respond that it has to do with market size (aiming for low smartphone penetration with high growth), popularity of e-commerce.Journalist after journalist asking slightly different variations of are patents preventing you from launching phones in the United States?Still, Xiaomis fitness trackers, power packs, headphones are all really nice for way less than what most US consumers are used to. Those products should do really well here.Hugo Barra just confirmed Xiaomi phones and tablets arent coming to the US later this year.In Q/A session, Lin Bin says we never share info on our margins.Sounds like everything but their phones/tablets might come here this year.Hugo Barra says Xiaomi is thinking about bringing Xiaomis e-commerce site, mi.com, to the US.Xiaomi now makes an air purifier. I know the air is great here in Silicon Valley, but in ChinaLin Bin says any company can pay for its ~$3 Mi Module to turn appliances into smart devices connected to their cloud.Now were talking about Xiaomis vision for the smart home.The Mi Notes SIM tray holds two 4G cards, one micro and one nano.Hugo Barra is talking about the Mi Note. Every aspect is shown in comparison to the iPhone 6 Plus.MIUI is easy to understand, but impossible to master because there are so many hidden features.There are more than 5,000 themes available for MIUI. Users have downloaded them more than 2 billion times. Doesnt just add a skin on top of MIUI  themes can add games or apps to the lock screen, for example.Calling a delivery place? Their menu automatically shows up in MIUIs phone app.MIUI has built-in features for getting train/movie tickets, hailing a ride, making bank/doctor appointments.MIUI users can label an incoming call as spam by tapping a button, if enough people do it all MIUI users will see the number as spam.Heres everything Xiaomi users can sync between devices across the cloud.Now were actually talking about Internet services Xiaomi offers.Hugo Barra is showing how the MIUI interfaces animations have consistent physics  even rain in the weather app changes direction to still fall down when you hold the phone at different angles.MIUIs music app is slick. Makes iTunes look overly busy.This is another iPhone comparison. Not a single comparison of features/UI to Googles Android interface so far.The multitasking feature looks a lot like iOS. But theres one difference thats interesting for power users: you can swipe up to dismiss an app, or down to force MIUI to keep the app in memory so the OS wont lose your place/data when its in the background.You can bulk delete apps from you home screen in MIUI.Hugo is comparing app management on the home screen between MIUI and iOS. When he has trouble moving between pages in iOS, he speculates about turning off the animation in a setting. No, it looks like you have to live through it.MIUI gives you the option to record a phone call starting at any point in a conversation.How Xiaomi built a version of Android for Chinese users: better support for Chinese names, a silent ring to avoid spam calls, canned messages frequently sent around holidays with automatic name entry (so you can send a bunch that seem personalized), and features for selfies.The evolution of MIUI.While MIUI comes with Xiaomis phones, it supports347 models on 96 brands. These are users who download our ROM and flash their own devices.The 225th weekly update to MIUI drops tomorrow.Hugo Barra speaking now. He says MIUI is not a fork of Android, but a layer of software and services on top of it.Xiaomi also employs 2,765 call center workers, with support available 24/7.Xiaomis shipping operation is ridiculous. and all of these.On Tmall Singles Day (November 11th), Xiaomi had monster sales last year. They sold 1.1 million phonesHeres how Xiaomis phones have sold over the last few years.Theyre playing a fans Chinese rap video about Xiaomi phones and the beat is kind of sick.They also do BuzzFeed-esque fan contests that draw really high engagement.Xiaomi isnt averse to taking advantage of pop culture references for marketing. Executives took a picture mimicking a poster for a popular movie in China and it blew up on social media.On screen: Creatives REALLY matterLin Bin takes time to detail which suppliers major parts came from for the Redmi 2.Lin Bin details Xiaomis history of being the first to use well-known mobile chipsets in China. And we were closeto being first to use the Snapdragon 810. He sounds genuinely disappointed.Heres the schedule Xiaomi engineers follow to maintain their weekly updates. This presentation is jumping around a lot.A recent forum thread discussing a Redmi 2 unboxing video has more than 2,000 comments.There are 40 million active members on Xiaomis Mi Forum. 169,000 daily posts.Lin bin says Xiaomi has sent out 224 of its weekly updates to MIUI.Going into Xiaomis MIUI layer on top of Android. Originally launched to ~100 users in August 2010, now has more than 100 million users.We are an Internet company. We do more than make phones.5 out of 8 of the most-activated Android phones in China are Xiaomi.#1 smartphone manufacturer in China according to IHS, #3 e-commerce company in the country.Jumped right into the business. In 2014, 61.1 million Xiaomi phones sold, 227% growth.Hugo Barras new Chinese name is Tiger Brother.Lin Bin just gave two-sentence bios for each of the companys co-founders.Lin Bin talking about Xiaomis name. Translation is literally little rice, but Mi also stands for mobile internet.Lin Bin, Hugo Barra, the assistants helping with the presentation, and all of the gadgets theyre going to show us later fit in one corner of the room.We all just filed in. This room isnt as big as I expected.Lots of familiar tech bloggers at the W this morning. Xiaomis doing a big media push.