Mike Vernal, a Facebook VP who has spent the last eight-plus years at the company, most recently leading its search, profile, local and developer platform product groups, is leaving the company to become a venture capitalist at Sequoia Capital.Before joining Facebook, Vernal spent nearly six years at Microsoft, first as a product manager and later as a development lead.The Harvard grad (two degrees) wrote in a tweet this afternoon that Facebook is an exceptional company with amazing people. Thank you to Mark and everyone at @facebook for the past eight years. Ill miss you.Facebook is an exceptional company with amazing people. Thank you to Mark and everyone at @facebook for the past eight years. Ill miss you. Mike Vernal (@mvernal) April 18, 2016Vernal joins 10 other partners in Sequoias Menlo Park office.One of those partnersisBryan Schreier, who joined Sequoia in 2008 after beinga senior director at Google. In an email provided to us by a Sequoia spokesman, Schreier writes, You dont recruit people like Mike. They choose you and we are thrilled to have him join.Schreier says the firm got to know Vernal through his work fostering startups when he was leading Facebooks platform initiatives. His experience scaling engineering, product, and design teams at Facebook will be invaluable to Sequoia founders working to build similarly transformative companies.Likeall Sequoia partners, Vernal is expected to be something of a generalist, but its likely hell be focusing on consumer and developer tech to start.Sequoia recently parted ways with another longtime partner, Michael Goguen, when it was revealed that he was being accused of breach of contractin one of the more explosivelawsuits to hit Silicon Valley in a while.SequoiasWest Coast partners are exclusively male, though it employs one female investment analyst, Stephanie Zhan, who has worked previously at Google, Andreessen Horowitz and Nest Labs.Sequoias chairman, Michael Moritz, was roundly criticized last year when, during an interview with Bloombergs Emily Chang, he said Sequoia is working hardto find more women to hire intoits ranks but that it isntwilling to lower its standards toward achieving that end.Sequoia Capital China has three female partners. SequoiaCapital India has onefemale investor and a female principal.