Michael Goguen, a longtime partner at Sequoia Capital who joined the tony Sand Hill Road firm roughly 20 years ago, has been named in an extraordinary breach of contract lawsuitthat accuses him of sexually mistreatinga woman he met in 2001, then refusing to honor a financial arrangement they made in more recent years to keep her from suing him.Filed in San Mateo County court earlier this week, Goguen is accused of having abused the plaintiff, namedAmber Laurel Baptiste, sexually, physically and emotionally for over 13 years. More centrally, states thecomplaint: When Baptistecould no longer tolerate his behavior, Goguen signed a contract to pay her $40 million as compensation for the horrors she suffered at his hands. But after paying her $10 million, Mr. Goguen refused to honor the rest of his agreement.Baptiste, who was born in 1980 according to legal documents, could notbe reached for comment. Her attorney, Patricia Glaser of the L.A.-based litigation firm GlaserWeil, is traveling inIsrael, according to her office;she has not responded to an emailedrequest for comment.Goguens attorney, Diane Doolittle, the co-chair of the national trial practice atQuinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, meanwhilewrote us a statement tonight, saying: On Monday,we will be filing a legal cross-complaint against [Baptiste]alleging extortion. The cross complaint will include an enormous amount of evidence, and cite contemporaneous emails and texts, that will help paint a full and complete picture of this entire matter. We will rely on all of this evidence to mount the most vigorous defense possible in court.Either way, Goguen looks to be out of a job suddenly. Reached earlier tonight for more information, a Sequoia spokesman wrote us that, We first learned of these claims yesterday.We understand that these allegations of serious improprieties are unproven and unrelated to Sequoia. Nevertheless, we decided that Mikes departure was the appropriate course of action.In Baptistes complaint, she is described as a victim of human trafficking since she was 15. It says that she was brought to America in 2001, sold as a dancer to a strip club, and that shortlyafter her arrival, she met Goguen at aTexas strip cluband was soonsubmitting to his constant sexual abuse and relying on his promise that he would help her break free of the human traffickers who held her in perpetual debt.Continuesthe complaint, Unbeknownst to Ms. Baptiste, Mr. Goguen was a worse predator than the human traffickers who were keeping her in bondage.Some of the accusations against Goguenwith whom Baptiste had asexual relationship for 12 years and across his three formermarriages, saysthe complaintare highlygraphic.Among them, the complaint states thatin late 2011, Ms. Baptiste discovered that Mr. Goguen had infected her with several high risk strains of the Human Papillomavirus ( HPV), putting her at risk of various cancers, including cervical cancer, which could require a hysterectomy and prevent her from being able to bear children.Anotheralleged action leftBaptiste bleeding and alone on the floor of a hotel room in a foreign country, saysthe complaint.Eventually, it states, Baptiste and Goguenstruck on a financial arrangement.In 2012, when Baptiste discovered she had contracted several high-risk strains ofHPV, she confronted Mr. Goguen, her only sexual partner at the time. Later, it states, Goguen agreed to pay Ms. Baptiste s expenses as compensation for the sexual abuse and infection she contracted from him.The complaint states that Goguen paid her expenses for roughly a year, until mid -2013 when he refused to continue the payments.Baptiste was then forced to hire an attorney and prepared to sue Mr. Goguen for the years of physical abuse, emotional trauma, and damage to her health. After receiving the draft complaint, it continues, Gogueninstructed her to fire her attorneyand used his attorneys instead to draft a settlement agreement that arranged for himto pay $40 million to Baptiste in four equal payments.Which leads us to thecrux of the lawsuit (and, wed hazard to guess, Sequoias decision to part ways withGoguen).The complaint states that Goguen paid the first of the four $10 million paymentsto Baptisteon May 30, 2014then he stopped. Rather than write another check, itstates,On or about 21 December 19, 2014, Mr. Goguen sent a letter to Ms. Baptiste refusing to make the second payment, purporting to rescind the contract, and claiming the Settlement Agreement was null and void as procured under extortion.Baptiste is seeking the enforcement of that settlement agreement, along with attorneys fees and other compensatory damages.What happens next is anyones guess, but Goguen had evidentlydone very well financially as a partner at Sequoia. A late 2012 story about ahome of Goguens on Whitefish Lake in Montana applauded him for providing $10 million to local law enforcement crewsso they could purchasetwo state-of-the-art helicopters. He reportedly spent another $10 million on a trail system in Whitefish.Expect to hear much more about the caseMonday morning when thecountersuit of Goguen isfiled. You can read the full suit here.Update: In a statement sent to us late Saturday from Goguens legal team, Goguen writes:These horrific allegations against me come at the end of a 10+ year romantic relationship that ended badly. Not surprisingly, the complaint is filled with every horrible buzzword you could throw at someone in todays society to destroy their reputation.At my direction, a cross compliant will be filed with the court first thingMondaymorning alleging extortion. It will contain an enormous amount of evidence, including messages that span years and show that she pursued me romantically and professed her love, respect and appreciation for my kind and compassionate treatment of her. This matter is purely personal and has no connection to Sequoia. My departure from there allows me to focus with full force on clearing my name and vigorously pursuing justice  startingon Mondaymorning with the filing of my cross complaint alleging extortion.Goguen also published a post in his defense on LinkedIn a bit ago.More here.