
Rory Eakin is co-founder and COO of CircleUp. Technology darlings like Uber, Pinterest and Airbnb may be taking their time on the way to exit, but that doesnt mean IPOs arent happening. Theyre alive and well in the consumer space  from food brands like Shake Shack and Papa Murphys (up 71 percent since its IPO last spring), to premium pet food like Blue Buffalo and retail establishments like Party City. So why are these companies pursuing IPOs  and finding success in the markets  while tech companies are dragging their feet?Todays consumers are looking for personalized brands that resonate with the things they consider important  like health and nutrition.Take Chipotle, one of the most recognizable and successful restaurants in the fast-casual space, offering a fast, higher-quality alternative to traditional fast food. Chipotle has built its brand on Millennial sensibilities, highlighting its use of non-GMO vegetables, pasture-raised dairy and antibiotic-free meat, playing carefully curated music in its stores and adorning cups and bags with short essays from authors and actors.Its an entirely different approach than, say, Taco Bell, and it has paid off: Since its IPO in 2006, shares have increased more than 1,600 percent, compared to just 66 percent for the S&P 500 over the same period.You can see the same focus on quality ingredients in fast-casual restaurants that have gone public more recently, including Shake Shack, and even in todays trendiest pet food brands, like Blue Buffalo, which started trading on the NASDAQ last month, with a $677 million IPO  the fifth-largest of the year.Meanwhile, large food brands are losing ground  they lost share to small brands in 42 of the top 54 most relevant food categories in the past five years, according to a report from banking firm Jefferies entitled Food: The Curse of the Large Brand.Social media has also given consumer brands a big boost. GoPro is a great example here  it has cultivated an enormous following on YouTube, with more than 3 million subscribers, and more than 900 million total views.Todays up-and-coming consumer brands are speaking to their customers in new ways  meeting them where they are, and making it easy for them to advocate on their behalf via social networks. New distribution channels  for example, the monthly subscription box thats worked so well for Birchbox  allow up-and-coming brands to reach consumers at a lower cost than was possible even five years ago.So why are consumer brands beating tech companies to the stock market? First and foremost, these companies are making money  something many of technologys biggest unicorns cant claim.Take Pinterest for example  its valued at over $11 billion, but isnt turning a profit. For a sharp contrast, look at Amplify Snack Brands, maker of SkinnyPop Popcorn, which listed on the NYSE this month. After just four years in business, Amplify reported $43 million in operating income last year.Simply put, theres no bubble in consumer.Because there is less sensationalizing the consumer industry, as compared to technology, young consumer and retail brands are valued on fundamentals, like revenue and profit, rather than nebulous future growth.As a result, there is less vintage risk and no disconnect between public and private markets, unlike what we have recently seen with technology.The nearly $1 trillion consumer market represents a huge opportunity for investors. The key is to identify the next Shake Shack or Chipotle early. Here are a couple of ways:Theres often a perception that technology is the sole driver of IPOs, and its simply not true. Theres a whole world of opportunity for savvy investors willing to look outside the technology box.