Tile, the small, square-shaped lost item tracker which recently raised an additional $3 millionfrom Khosla Ventures as an extension on its earlier $13 million Series A,had previously indicated that its business model would eventually include a replacementservicethatallows customers to purchase newTiles just ahead of thebattery wearingout on their old ones.Now, selectTile customers are being presented with exactly this option. This week, the company startedsending out emails promisinga special deal on Tile renewals to some of its earliest backers.The Tile tracker is one of many lost-item finders on the market today. Ittakes advantage of Bluetooth connectivity and an accompanying smartphone app tohelp userslocate any item theyveattached aTile to  whether its a set ofkeys, a purse or a bag, a bike, or anything else. What makes Tiles implementation interesting, however, is that its not just a utility. Tile is growing a community of Tile device owners who, combined, can work together as anetwork in order tolocate peoples missing items even when the original owner isout of Bluetooth range.The company said last month that it has250,000 unique finds per day across 214 countries and territories, and it has shipped 2 million devices to date.But unlike some of its competitors, Tiles dont last forever  only a year. By design, the Tile trackerdoesnt include a user-replaceable battery  the thinking being that, when the battery dies, many consumers wont bother to buy a new battery and swap it out. They would just throw the Tile in a drawer and forget about it. Plus, byeliminating the need to make the battery accessible to end users, Tile can take more liberties with its hardware design.In order to maintain its relationship with customers, Tileco-founder and CEO Mike Farley said earlierthat the company would introducea replacement program forits devices. In June, he indicated an announcement about this would arrive in a few months time.But already, some Tile customers are receiving emails offering them the option to renew for $12 per Tile.The emails are timed so that only those who were among the very first Tile device owners are getting this upgrade option at present.In one email TechCrunchreceived, Tile owners were offered the chance torenew a single Tile for $12, get a 4-pack for $48, an 8-pack for $96 or a 12-pack for $144. These are marked down from prices that would otherwise be $25, $70, $130, or $180, respectively. (These higher prices are what it would cost to purchase a Tile directly from the website.)The promo prices may not be set in stone indefinitely  future renewals could be higher or lower, depending on the programs success. As Farley notes, anythings possible in the futurewere obviously doing something new here in the consumer electronics space. Its a little bit different.The company has not made a formal announcement about its renewal program, because its still working out the details. However, the renewal option is arriving just ahead of Tiles plans to roll out new hardware.Farley hadpreviously said that there would be a hardware update ahead of the 2015 holiday season.When asked if those who are renewing their Tiles today would be receiving old or newer hardware, the CEO simply replied that members who renew will get the latest hardware.However, Farley also said that Tile renewals would ship as quickly as new orders would  meaning, about a day after the order is placed. Since new hardware hasnt yet been announced, that means users may be getting the same Tile they already have today as their replacement. That being said, thecompanyclearly has some sort of plan to make sure that those who renew dont miss out on new hardware when it becomes available. The companydeclined to provide further details onhow that process will work, though.Upon renewal, Tile customers are also offered the chance to share their Tile order on social media in exchange foradditional savings on future orders.In addition,the renewal service helpfully includes a recycling component. When customers are sent their new Tile, theyll also receive a self-addressed stamped envelope which is used to return their old one.This is an important component to Tiles renewal program, Farley says, pointing out that 40 percent of consumer electronics were recycled in 2013, according to the EPA.We recycle 99 percent of the content fromthe Tilesthat ensures they dont end up in landfills, he says.