Its proving to be a busy week for big-hitting VC firm Tiger Global in India.It led a $100 million investment in music streaming service Saavn, put up media startup News In Shorts $20 million Series B raise, and today it led a $10.2 million round for medical service Lybrate.Eighteen-month-oldLybrate is based in New Delhi and it aims to increaseaccess to doctors and quality healthcare information forIndias billion-plus population.It primary connects patients with doctors using a web-based platform and apps for Android and iOS. Users can pose questions to doctors online, and do so anonymously if they choose. It isnt just about virtual connections, and they can searchdoctors and surgeries near to them, make and manage appointments, and savetheir patient records. Theres also a system for sending alerts to family members or loved ones in the event of an emergency.Patientscan solicitmultiple doctors for opinions when they aresick, they are only charged when they choose to enter into a one-on-one dialogue with a doctor. In that event, the app handles the communication, allowing them to share photos, videos and chat via text with the physician. Patients are charged a variable fee set bythe doctor, and an additionalinternet handling fee  typically a further 5 to 15 percent  which goes toLybrate.The idea is to break down the barriers surrounding healthcare in India. Lybrate CEOSaurabh Arora left the U.S. and his job as a data scientist Facebook and returned to India to start the business when, on a visit home, he noticed large numbers of people in rural areas used pharmacists todiagnose their illnesses rather than actual doctors.After some research, he found that the habitisnt unique to isolated parts of India  where there are comparatively fewer doctors per person  even in metro areas, people put offgoing to clinics for a range of reasons, such as lack of time, hassle or traffic jams.ButLybrate isnt just about connecting doctors and patients,Arora told TechCrunch that he sees the service as a platform for increasing access to healthcare information itself.Thefundamental problem isnt waiting ina doctors clinic, were a communication platform that multiples a doctors presence, he said. We ask ourselves, How do we let a person in Northern India get access to quality medical care and information? for example.Aligned to that,Lybrates mobile apps sport Facebook-like feeds which provide daily health tips and advice to users based on their own needs or situations, for example pregnant women or elderly folks.When it comes to numbers, Lybrateboasts more than 80,000 doctors from disciplines such as cardiology, dentistry, psychiatry and neurology. The company claimed it is visitedby over 100,000 userseach day, and that its mobile apps have clocked over half a million downloadssince their launch in January of this year.Thenew funding raise wasput together by Tiger Global, Tata Sons President Emeritus Ratan Tata  hes been in the news lately  and existing backer Nexus Ventures. The startup plans to spend the money hiring more staff, developing its technology and scaling the platform to reachmore doctors and more patients.Lybrates concept is ground breaking. We believe it has the potential to revolutionize healthcaredelivery in India and script the future of the healthcare industry with its model, saidLee Fixel, the Tiger Global partner who has overseen the firms major investments in India.The company isnt alone in tackling the doctor-patient disconnectin India. Practo is another service that connects the twoonline.Practoclaims to be Asias top health search portal with 120,000 doctors on its platform and 1.5 million visitors and four million searches per month.Practo landed $30 million earlier this year and has been on an investment spree building out its business with acquisitions. It is also activelyexpanding its service overseas, and it has already enteredSingapore andthe Philippines in Southeast Asia.