Two months after General Motorsannounced a $500 million investment in transportation startup Lyft to work on autonomous cars, the pair are launching their first service together. No, its not aself-drivingcar fleet (yet); its a short-term rentalprogram called Express Drive:GM will provide all-in rental cars to Lyft drivers, who will pay between $99/week plus mileage andnothing at all, depending on how many Lyft rides they provideusing the vehicles.Goinglive first in Chicago with 500 vehicles, all of a single model  the Chevy Equinox Express Drivewill thenroll out to three morecities  Boston, Washington, DC and Baltimore  before expanding elsewhere (and potentially to other car models).Lyft and GMbelieve that Express Drive will help the pair lay the infrastructurefor fleets of self-driving cars down the road. But one of themore immediateaims of Express Drive is simply to put more Lyftvehicles on the streets today.In a press call with journalists on Monday, Lyft co-founder John Zimmer saidthat in the four cities where Lyft and GM are launching Express Drive first, 150,000 people that have signed upto drive for Lyft could not do it because they did not have suitable cars. In Chicago alone, there have been60,000 applicants, he noted.Weve now made car ownership optional on both sides of the market, Zimmersaid, referring to drivers and passengers. Now you dont need to own a vehicle to make money on the platform, or togive rides to passengers.Lyft has launchedpast initiativeslike Express Pay to sweeten the deal for drivers to choose Lyft over working for rivalslike Uber. Express Drive is also constructed to incentivise drivers to take more Lyft rides.Those who use the Express Drive carfor less than 40 rides per week pay $99/week plus 20 cents per mile. Those who use the car for between 40 and 64 rides per week pay $99/week flat. And those who use the car for 65 or more rides per week pay nothing at all. And while drivers pay for gas, all other services including insurance are thrown into the single price, regardless of whether you are on call with a passenger or drivingthe car for personal use, Lyft tells me. Cars can be rented for between one and eight weeks.Lyft and GM are not disclosing the specifics of theirfinancial terms for Express Drive but see it as a way of growing new revenue streams in their respective businesses. We are still assessing the size of the program, but John and I are both hoping for solid financial results, said Julia Steyn, GMs VP of urban mobility.Autonomous cars havebeen touted as achief motivation behindGMs strategic investment in Lyft  and clearly it is a big priority with GM, which just last week acquired driverless car startup Cruise. But it will be years before these vehicles are widely in use. Sothe connection between this concept and todays rental news was a bit more tenuous.Asked how the two were related, Steyn at GM said that Express Drivewould help lay the groundwork for future vehicles.This is going to build structure for autonomous vehicles, Steyn said. To create the infrastructure in many cities is very important, starting with ride sharing with Lyft We are looking at a differentfuture going forward. Vehicles willneed to be managed. This is about creating better assessment and vehicles on demand.Indeed, if self-driving cars in their early days turn out tobe cost prohibitive or impractical for the averageconsumer, you can imagine how a company like GM might consider ways of deploying fleets of them for specific use cases like transportation services.GM said it wouldimplementsome of theservices aroundExpress Drive by way of Maven, its new business unit that includes all the companys work on car ownership models of the future.Express Driveservices willinclude access to OnStar  GMs in-vehicle security, diagnostics, turn-by-turn navigation and calling system  along with maintenance and warranty servicing, and insurance.This is not the first time that Lyft has offereda short-term leasing program to grow the number of drivers in its fleet. In October last year, it announced a rental deal with Hertz. But that program, which is now live in Las Vegas and Denver, seems to be more expensive  respectively starting at $119 and $139 per week  and its also without theother perks that GM and Lyft are throwing into the deal.Nor is Lyft the only on-demand transport service that has looked to rental and leasing programs to boost its fleet of vehicles on the road. Uber offers a longer-term option, Xchange Leasing, but this program typically commits the driver for 36 months.Uber hasalso partnered with Enterprise for short-term rentals.Others further afield, like Lyfts network partner from India, Ola, also have built out rental programs to equip drivers with better cars. And there are other companies like HyreCar that exist solely to rent vehicles to drivers on these services.