Collaborative photo albums is the startup ideathat just wont die. Today,photo-sharing and organization app Lyve is rolling out a new feature which will allow anyone to create photo albums with others in their same location, whether thats at a wedding, a concert, a festival, a party, or anything else. With Mix, as this new addition is called, users will be able to capture and upload photos in real-time into albums that are marked as either public or private.The idea forcollaborative photo albums is an itch a number of photo-sharing apps have tried to scratch in the past, butlargely (and sometimes spectacularly) failed at while doing so. The problem, in most cases, is that building a shared photo album alone isnt enough of a draw for someone to download and install a new application on their phone. Plus, theres the cold start problem to deal with  that is, until the app has a critical mass of users, there just arent enough people to share your photos with in the first place.Lyve, however, believesit has an advantage with its implementation, because Mix is not a standalone application  its just a new feature in a broader photo sharing app that offers a number of other tools and options.The app began asa complement to Lyves earlier product  a home storage box that lets a household securely back up their digital archives, including photos and videos. After storing these items on Lyveshardware device, users canaccess their entire digital collections from anywhere, whether thats from a mobile app or Mac or PC desktop. Lyvessoftware itself is fairly smart  de-duplicating photos when viewing them on mobile and rendering them in a format thats designed for the screen size of the device youre using. It also lets you rediscover old photos from the past, edit photos with filters, stickers and frames, tag photos to make albums, and more.Last October, the company separated the Lyve mobile app from the companys hardware, making it accessible to more users  even if they didnt purchase aLyve hardware device, they could still use the app.Now, Lyve is expanding that apps capabilities.To create a Mix, you can either email or text an invite to your friends and invite them to join. If they already have the app installed on their phone, then the link they receive will take them right into the Mix. If not, then theyre prompted to download Lyve from the app store.Private Mixes are password-protected but public Mixes nearby (within a 1 kmradius) will just appear in the app automatically, allowing you to participate in the shared experience.Lyve will need to attract a number of users for something like Mix to really take off. Thats something the startup doesnt yet have  its still a relatively young company and isnt disclosing its user numbers or engagement metrics. And like other photo-sharing startups, Lyve faces tough competition from industry giants who all offer their own cloud backup and photo-sharing solutions, including Apples iCloud, Google+ Photos, Amazons Cloud Drive Photos, Dropbox, Yahoos Flickr,as well as social media services like Facebook or Instagram, and others.If anything, Lyve looks like it would make for a good acquisition target for one of the bigger companies, though of course it claims thats not the goal. But the appseems to have the most in common with Amazons Cloud Drive Photos app, as that appalso offers a similar timeline feature. Even some of the user interface elementsare the same  like the gray-colored, left-side navigation, for example. And Amazon is decidedly in need of something to differentiate its functional, but rather unglamorous, software app from the others in this space.That said, Lyve as it stands today may appeal to those who want a solution thats independent from these larger companies, which are more often the target of hacks, data breaches and government surveillance. And Lyvesappstill works well with its hardware for those who prefertohost-it-yourself.The updated Lyve mobile app is available now for download on Google Play and iTunes.