Curiosity about the limitsof machine learningled former trader, UCL academic and startup founder, Dr Tristan Fletcher, to applycomplex AI techniques to the  on the surface  rather chaotic arenaof fine wine pricing, comparing them with trading techniquesused for moretypicalasset classes.Prices of wines are all over the place. You can get one wine sold at an auction say in London, and the same wine might get sold a few days later in Hong Kong and the price differences would be humongous, saysFletcher.So I realized it was a really inefficient market and I might be able to profit from those inefficiencies.Trading wine is expensive because of the price per unit traders have to pay. Its not a market set up for high frequency trading, as withshares. Rather wine lovers typically buy a couple of cases, drink one (slowly), and then sell the second one after enough time has elapsed as a way to fund drinking the first. Its trading to drink, not to profit.So while Fletchers machine learning approach to predicting fine wine pricing turned out to be able to more accurately forecastprices than other more traditional trading methods, the research that led to it isperhapsmore of an academic exercise in testing the boundaries of machine learning than a technique withwidespreadcommercial application, owing to the complexities involved.That said, Fletcherdoes also runa quantitative wine asset management startup, called Invinio, which collaborated on the UCL research and intends to continue working with the university to help refine thealgorithms  and potentiallyusesome of the research to improve the tools it provides towine investors. So there are someimmediate commercial applications, too.There is alsopotential for applying similar machine learningtechniques to other alternative asset classes that people trade, reckonsFletcher, such as classic cars, spirits, rare books and even perhaps fine art. Although, spirits excepted, each of those other markets has very different characteristics to fine wine  so theres unlikely to beuniform results.Astudy detailing the fine wine research has been published today in the Journal of Wine Economics.Its co-authored by Fletcher, along with professor John Shawe-Taylor, co-director of the UCL Centre for Computational Statistics & Machine Learning and Head of UCL Computer Science. The primary author isUCL MSc graduate, Michelle Yeo.I first started collecting wine data a few years ago,says Fletcher, who has a background in AI research, explaining how the projectcame about. I used to work as an algorithmic trader at a hedge fund and I wasnt allowed to trade normal assets, and wanted to trade something that you could still buy and sell on exchanges, because thats what I knew about, and wine was something that the Financial Conduct Authority are happy for people to trade without any registration.He then wondered what he could do with thefine wine pricing data he had amassed, and put a call out at UCL for research students who were interested in working with him on applying AI-techniques to the data which is how Yeo got involved. Can we try and predict which way the wine prices would move? was the core aim of the study.Specifically the team looked at data for 100 of the most sought-after fine wines from the Liv-ex 100 wine index. They tested two forms of machine learning on the data-set  including Gaussian process regression; and the more complex multi-task feature learning, the latter in a bid to extractthe most relevant information from a variety of sources.Looking at the data the team found the wines fell broadly into two groups  with about half showing evidence of strong negative autocorrelations for one day; so if they went up one day, the price would go down the next. And the other group not showing that characteristic.For the wines with the negative autocorrelations Fletcher says the team wasable to get quite significance outperformance using Gaussian techniques (vs more standard trading metrics) to predict whether the price would go up or down the next day. For the other group of wines the technique was less successful but, according toFletcher, it wasstill better than more traditional techniques.Yeo alsoappliedthe even more complex multi-task learning technique to the data in an attempt to predict next day wine prices  not just up or down moves.This multi-task learning was able to find which prices in a time series  in a long list of prices being paid  wereuseful; extract that information and then predict what the price was going to be on the next day. It was a technique that turns out to be really useful for this group of wines where the autocorrelation was negative, says Fletcher.Weve taken these two machine learning techniques  Gaussian processes has been around for 5-10 years, but is only now getting really used, whereas multi-task learning has been around for less time and is not used that much anywhere  and both of them showed a lot of outperformance for some of the wines. Both in predicting whether the wine was going to go up or down in price, but also how much so.I think the big question is, is the complexity of these techniques justified? Would you use these things in the real world? he adds.The complexity of the techniques means the necessary calculations wouldtake too much time to be applicable in ahigh frequency trading scenario. But thats not something which applies tothe fine wine investmentworld, so Fletcher believes there could be worth in applying the researchto extend the servicesInvinio offers, in the first instance.Weve got this company Invinio where were trying to create these portfolios of fine wines and we might start incorporating this research to give people a vague idea about if they were going to buy a wine  recommended for diversification purposes  is today the best day to buy it or should you wait a few days he says.That said, its still only a small advantage ina small, low-frequency trading market gained viasome very complex math. And Fletcher argues there are plenty of trading scenarios where complex AI techniques arent suitable, or where accuracy gains are small vs computationefforts required.My view is that a lot of the time the complexity of using these techniques isnt justified in the performance they bring you, he says. They sound good and a lot of places like investment banks and hedge funds like the PR connected with saying they use machine learning methods but they might be doing something a lot more pedestrian in reality.[With the fine wine research] weve got a big edge on these old traditional techniques, but the reality is were not going to have huge accuracy on predicting when stuff goes up or down  if we did wed be way ahead of any other market. No one in any market really knows whether things are going to go up or down over any sensible time-period. Its a very hard thing to do, and wine is no different.Heargues generally that AI worksbest as an augmentative intelligence  supplementing and helping human operators, rather than replacing humanactivityentirely.AI can help you do a lot of things, automate a lot of things, it can make you a lot more effective but you will always need a human being for those unforeseen circumstances, and thats true in the world of trading, just as much as it is in many other aspects of our lives where people are worried that the robots are taking over. I think theres always going to be room for people, he adds.You cant completely replace [human] traders. As much as many people would like to because theyre expensive and seen as not having much value but you do need people who can think laterally. A program cant conceive of things that it hasnt witnessed before. It cant deal with the unknown unknowns. But people can.