Mad Street Den, a one-year-old artificial intelligence startup based in Chennai, India, has closed a $1.5 million seed round to bring technology developed in the labs to consumers in a useful way.Reservoir Investments Exfinity Fund and GrowX Venturesprovidedthe capital, which Mad Street Den will use for making new hires and working withpartners to license and use its AI tech in apps and services.The startup was founded by husband and wife duoAnand Chandrasekaran, a neuroscientist who graduated from Stanford,and Ashwani Asokan, who was previously with IntelLabs. The couplespenta cumulative 25 years working in the U.S., but returned to their country of birth last year to start the company.Relocatingwas a very deliberate decision, Mad Street Den CEO Asokan told TechCrunch in an interview. People in India and Asia are leaping frogging generations of technology, and we thought where better to experiment with this stuff?'Location aside, Mad Street Den is different to other AI companiesbecause it is focused on a platform of vertical services that partners can license to use in their products. It offers five different applications of AI, butAsokan explained e-commerce and analytics are proving to be the most popularwith its handpicked list of partners.The e-commerce product is centered around fashion, and offers a range of advanced services such as visual search. That could allow a shopper to take a photo of a bag or top, for example, then select their favorite color and find the nearest match on an e-commerce site.Mad Street Den timed its arrival perfectly, since Indias e-commerce segment took off last year. Flipkart raised close to $2 billion in funding from VCs in 2014, Jeff Bezos cut Amazon India a $2 billion check for growth, and SoftBank backed Snapdeal with hundreds of millions of dollars too.Asokansaid Mad Street Den is in talks with several undisclosed e-commerce companies with a view to introducing its technology in their services in India before the summer. After that, she added, it will look to the wider Asia region.Beyond e-commerce, Mad Street Dens potential for analytics is particularly interesting.Asokan said that its facial recognition technology could, for example, be used to detect a persons general happiness for a week, their favorite colors, and more just fromtheir Instagram photos. (Sidenote: be careful what you share onsocial media, kids.)Right now,Mad Street Den is making money via API calls butin the future it will model its pricing based on the specifics of each vertical. For example, e-commerce partners could pay via affiliate commission or revenue-sharing, while other industries could be billed vialicensing fees.Beyond the platform play, the startup is also looking toreleaseits own services and applications based on its technology. Asokan said that a range of proofs of concept have been created  including a short of staring competition game, which I think sounds fascinating  but Mad Street Den is waiting until the right time before it launches them.The startuphas six full-time staff at this point and has bootstrapped itself so far. Asohan revealed that the company wasnt looking for moneybut it sees this as anopportunity to accelerate its development.We werent planning to raise but word spread like crazy and the VCs descended.People are already knocking on the door about our Series A by the summer, when we should start seeing our servicesin the market, then well be ready, she said.Until then, Mad Street Den plans to use most of the capital to hire very senior people in the Valleywho its founders are connected with. Asohan expects the startup to at least double its headcountthis year, but there are no plans for a U.S. officeyet.