Another newcomer, called Mainframe, is launching today onstage atTechCrunch Disrupt London with its own take on email 2.0. The startup is merging some of the concepts popularized by Slack, like channels, with the ability to communicate with the world outside your office, which is emails biggest advantage.Mainframe co-founderMick Hagen explains that hes been fascinated with this idea of helping people connect in different ways for much of his life. He sold his social network Zinch, whichconnected high schoolers with college admissions officers and scholarships, to textbook rental service Chegg in 2011 for $45 million. The following year, he took the stage at Disrupt SFto show off Undrip, a tool to help highlight the best content in your social feeds.In 2013, he pivoted from Undrip to create Spatch,a service focused on improving email. Initially, Hagen says, he and co-founderRyan Johnson, previously of Zynga, tried to build Spatch on top of email.The heart of what we believe is wrong with email is that its completely unstructured, says Hagen,adding that its not interoperable with other task-management applications.That means email users have to parse email manually and determine for themselves what actions they need to take based on the text in the message.The goal with Spatch, now Mainframe, was to solve this specific problem. With the service the foundersenvisioned, email senders would specify the type of message they wanted to send: for example, a task with a due date; a request for an introduction; a to-do list item; a request for an appointment slot. Adding this structure up front results in better waysfor email recipients to process their inboxes.But after a year, the founders realized their original plan to build on top of email wasnt going to work. The underlying technology  archaic, legacy protocols  made Spatch feel like what Hagen describes as lipstick on a pig.So they pivoted again. The team moved to London to participate in TechStars in mid-2014, and later changed the product. It will still interoperate with email, but itsstructured messaging feature existsside-by-side with email now, not on top of it.Instead, Mainframe, as the product is now called, lets you communicate within your own company much like Slack does, even copying the idea of having channels. But its also going to be interoperable with email. That is, you can create a channel where you add internal team members as well as outside contacts who dont use Mainframe.In other words, Mainframe works as both your email client application, as well as an alternative to Slack for internal communications. (The email interoperability piece wont be available until January, however, Hagen says. Despite this, at least one of some two-dozen testers has already begun to pay for the service, which is sold as a traditional SaaS product  $X per user, per month.)In Mainframe, the burden is on the sender to mark up the message to give it the necessary structure, and much of the teams focus has been on trying to make this very simple to do.For now,there are three buttons in the Compose screen: Attention, Action and Availability. Attentionlets you highlight who needs to see this message and its related requests; Action lets you highlight action items (make a call, update a spreadsheet, etc.) called out in the email; and Availability lets you schedule meetings by having recipients pick one of your available time slots.With the structure Mainframe provides, recipients can quickly parse their inboxes to see the main tasks they need to perform. A separate to-do list screen also lets you see items associated with particular tasks grouped together.Of course, getting users to change their behavior is challenging  and asking senders to do the work of marking up an email may not take off without a lot of user training and a company where the new communication methodology becomes a part of the company culture. That said, Mainframe lets recipients mark up those messages that arrive unstructured if they so choose.Headquartered in London, Mainframes team of 10 has raised the largest seed round in Europe, were told, but the company wont say yet how much or from whom. But Hagen notes its a combination of institutional VCs and angels, including some investors who were founders or early employees at Salesforce, Gmail, Yammer, Twitter and more.Mainframe is today available for public testing. Its available on desktop for both Mac and Windows, as well as iOS and Android. The service will remainfree during thetrial period.