Managed By Q, the startup that handles all the cleaning, maintenance and re-stocking of your office, has today announced the close of a $15 million Series A funding round led by RRE Ventures.Greycroft Partners, Homebrew, Sherpa Ventures, SV Angel and Steadfast Financial also participated in the round, alongside Gary Vaynerchuk, Foursquare co-founder Naveen Selvadurai, Semil Shah, Jessica Alba, Bjarke Ingels, and NBA commissioner David Stern.And thats not all! Managed By Q is also launching this week in San Francisco. The company is already operational in New York (where its based) and Chicago.Managed By Q works like this:Clients are set up with a free iPad that is installed on a wall in the office. Office managers (or anyone, really) can then use the iPad  alongside the Managed By Q software  to order re-stocked supplies, a handyman, a cleaning, or anything else that the office might need.From there, Managed By Q pairs that office with an MBQ operator  which are employed on a W2 basis  who comes to the office to re-stock supplies like toilet paper and paper towels, clean, and oversee any maintenance that needs to be done.Whats more, Managed By Q monitors every move that an operator makes in the office, ensuring that things are done in the right order and to the right specifications. And because MBQ offers both an on-demand and a scheduled option, the company has started to learn how to predict what certain clients will need and when they will need it.No service in the world provides what we provide, said cofounder Saman Rahmanian. Not only do we manage your supplies, but we make sure you will never ever run out of that supply again. Delivering that magic takes a lot of focus and complexity on the background, and were only getting better and better on delivering that.Managed By Q covers everything from a broken AC to technical support to furniture assembly to painting, alongside scheduled cleanups and inventory re-stocks.And beyond the service that MBQ provides, the company also offers FaceTime-based customer support. So if youre having trouble placing an order or using the app, someone will always be around to answer your questions, face-to-face.Managed By Q has been operational in San Francisco for the past six weeks in a beta. The company currently boasts SF clientele like Shyp, Everlane, AngelList and Quirky, with over 200 additional offices in its SF wait list. And that doesnt even include the hundreds clients in New York and Chicago. (MBQ wouldnt be more specific on exact traction figures at this time.)As previously mentioned, all of Managed By Qs operators (ranging from cleaners to handymen) are employed on a W2 basis and receive benefits such as a 401(K) plan, health benefits, and even opportunities for continued education on the cheap (or free).Scaling is one of our biggest challenges, said Teran. Because we employ our own operators and hand-pick the highest quality service providers, we have to ensure that we maintain that level of quality in our hiring as we expand from city to city. In the early days it was easy to try a little bit of everything and be casual, and now we have to plan strategically about which piece of the opportunity we want to focus on.Managed By Q launched back in November of 2014 and has to date raised a total of $17.4 million in funding.