Mangoplate, a service akin to Yelp in Korea, is in the money today after closing a $6.1 million Series A round to expand in its domestic market and branch out into other parts of Asia.The round was led by Qualcomm Ventures and included participation fromSoftBank Ventures Koreaand YJ Capital. The latter is the venture capital firm from Yahoo Japan, which made its first investment in Korea with this deal and recently became an LP in Southeast Asia-based Monks Hill Ventures fund.Mangoplate, which emerged from Seoul-based accelerator program SparkLabs two years agoand previously scooped $600,000 in funding from SparkLabs Venturesand $800,000 from SoftBank Korea, has now raised $7.2 million from investors in total. The company counts 200,000 restaurants on its platform and is closing in on one million downloads, of whicharound 250,000 are monthly active users, co-founder Joon Oh told TechCrunch in an interview.Oh estimated that Mangoplate currently has around 40 percent of Koreas restaurantsright now, and it is aiming to double that to around 80 percent with the nextyear. A full set of 100 percent is tricky due to restaurant in the competition Korean market, Oh said. (He estimates that around 500 restaurants close per day across the country.)The service is available in Korean and English, but itsbiggest selling point is personalization. Thats to say that, rather than just serving up deals, it uses algorithms and data to curate restaurant deals based on a users location  and location history  and their cuisine preference.Lots of companies claim to usebig data, but just crawl [Koreas top internet portal] Naver and blogs. Its not personalized in any way, so your result is the same as your friends and others, Oh said. Mangoplate really is a big data-driven personalization service, its like Yelp on steroids.Right now, the company isnt making money because it isnt donescaling, but Oh said that it will roll out money-making features by the middle of next year. One major area of focus will be leaning on the apps bucketlist-like feature  which lets users mark restaurants they are interested in  to allow restaurants owners to offer targeted offers to consumers who have shown an interest in their shop.Mid 2016 is also the timeframe for potential expansions too, Oh revealed. Right now, Mangoplate is eying markets with similarities to Seoul  such as Singapore and Hong Kong  but Oh made it clear that building a strong position in Korea is top priority for now.Itwill take some times to become a leader in this market, he said. We will need to raiseanother round for the expansion, but we can start testing [overseas cities] with this funding round.Mangoplates opportunity in Korea presented itself after the government ordered domestic internet giant Naver to shutter Wingspoon, the countrys dominant food discovery service that it acquired, back in 2013. Wingspoon had been plagued by fake reviews and restaurants gaming its system. Oh said Mangoplate has a number of systems in place to detect suspect behavior, buthe declined to provide specifics in order to avoid giving the game away. (One method is sign-in via Facebook or Kakao, although that doesnt remove the issue entirely.)Oh had praise for Mangoplates investors, explaining that their mix of international know-how and mentorship will be vital for the services future.Having these mentors has been really really helpful. A-calibre investors are critical especially when we want to raise a bigger round from investors outside of Korea  having those names is very important, he said.