Ive got a pretty bad addiction to restaurant delivery service Seamless, but even Ill admit its not perfect  sometimes theres a long wait for food that shows up cold, and sometimes I get stuck in a rut, wanting to try something different but unwilling to gamble on a new restaurant or weird-sounding dish.And yes, when I indulge that addiction often enough, things can get pretty pricey.Maple is launching today with the promise of a better experience. Its backed by Momofuku chef David Chang, so it has plenty of foodie cred.To be clear, Maple isnt just delivering food from existing restaurants. Instead, like Sprig and Spoonrocket, it both prepares and delivers the food itself. As outlined by co-founders Caleb Merkl and Akshay Navle, as well as their executive chef Soa Davies, the company is trying to rethink the delivery experience, so that its not just an add-on to an existing business.At a high level, were trying to purpose-build a company that has a singular vision to make delivery exceptional at every touchpoint, Merkl said. To do that we really had to own the entire process  everything from sourcing ingredients to last-mile delivery.So when you open Maples iOS or Android app, youll be presented with just three menu options (including vegetarian), whether its for lunch or dinner. Once youve swiped through the choices and chosen what you want, the food should be delivered to you in 30 minutes or fewer.That might not sound like a dramatically different experience from existing services, but Maple says the end result should be food thats always hot and fresh when you get it. (The food is initially prepared in a central location, but the final steps are saved for satellite kitchens throughout the city.) The limited menu means you dont have to agonize over your choices, but since it rotates, you can try new things with the knowledge that it all comes from Maples chefs.And by eliminating the costs of running a physical restaurant, the company can also keep things relatively affordable. Lunch costs $12, dinner costs $15  with tips, taxes and delivery fees included.I tried some sample dishes while visiting the Maple offices, and I found them quite tasty. (Sadly, our meeting took place between meals, so I had to restrain myself from devouring everything.) While I nibbled, Davies talked about testing out different recipes and seeing how they traveled  for example realizing she needed heartier greens for the salads to ensure they wouldnt deflate while being biked around New York Citys cobblestone streets.Davies (a chef whos done stints at Splendido and Le Bernadin) added that she was introduced to Maple through Chang, and she said she shares Changs belief that food is going to get out of restaurants more and more, and on-demand is the answer.While Maple is officially launching today, its only available in a relatively small area for now  New Yorks financial district, south of Chambers Street. I guess a slow rollout is the price of the own the entire process philosophy, but Merkl and Navle said that once theyve worked out the kinks in the launch area, they plan to expand throughout New York and, eventually, beyond.