Massdrop is announcing that it has raised $40 million in Series B funding.The company focuses on what it calls community-driven commerce. It allows people who are interested in things likehigh-quality audio, mens fashion and quilting (yes, those are all actual Massdrop communities) to connect with other enthusiasts, discuss products, make purchases with group discounts and even help design new products.Massdrop has already created communities in 11 categories. Co-founder and CEOSteve El-Hage (pictured above) said the oldest communities (namely, the ones for audiophiles and for fans of mechanical keyboards) are the most popular, if only because theyve had a head start. Massdrop says it now has a registered user base of more than 1 million people.El-Hage plans to launchfour new communities before the end of the year, and then add a new community every month in 2016. Hes also hoping tooffer more content, such as in-depth reviews or do-it-yourself explainers. To do that, hell find people online who have expert knowledge but no following.Theres a lot of awesome content being written in each category thats not being surfaced or matched with appropriate viewers, he said.Naturally, El-Hage thinks Massdrop isthe placewhere those experts can find the audience theyve been looking for. As for whether Massdrops commerce businesswillmake it hard for those writers to be critical and honest, El-Hage saidhes more focused on building community than on driving sales.Our goal isnt to sell them anything, even though we love it when we do, he said. He also pointed to Amazon, which has no problem running one-star reviews next to the products its selling.Massdrop raised a $6.5 million Series A about a year ago.The new round wasled by August Capital,with additional investment from First Round Capital, Mayfield Fund and Cowboy Ventures. Augusts David Hornik is joining Massdrops board of directors.Many companies have found initial success in e-commerce, but hit a plateau where they can no longer drive growth through paid acquisition alone, Hornik said in the funding release. By fostering and engaging the community, rather than buying one, Massdrop has pushed through this plateau and continues to grow its user base.Apparently the categoriesdont necessarilyreflect all of El-Hages personal interests, although he saidthat when the team decides to move into a new area, he tries to immerse himself in that world. For example, when Massdrop was getting ready to move into ultralight gear, El-Hage said he hopped on a plane, drove to Canada and went on a seven-day backpacking trip.