Senator John McCainon Tuesdaytold reporters that he would hold a series of hearings and eventually pursue legislation that would require companies provide the government with access to encryption.The encryption debate was fizzling out in Washington after the White House announced it would not seek legislation requiring technology companies to provide law enforcement with a back door to access encrypted data. But after Fridays attacks in Paris, thats changed.Its causing a lot more attention in Congress, said McCain,the chairman of the Armed Services Committee,according to the Hill.In the wake ofunsubstantiated reports that the Islamic State used encryption to plot the terror attacks that claimed at least 129 lives, the pendulum in Washington is swinging toward government access.For more than a year, a debate has been playing out in Washington over whether or not law enforcement should have access to encrypted data. It began last fall when Apple launched iOS 7 and began encrypting devices by default. The company also encryptediMessages and FaceTime calls, as it had since 2011. Law enforcements argument is that there should not be data beyond a warrant. They believe that they should have a back door to access such data in the event of an emergency.Though that may seem like a reasonable claim, security and privacy experts have stated that there is no technologically feasible way to create a backdoor for law enforcement that could not be broken by criminals. They believe the only way to have secure encryption is to have encryption that cannot be breached by anyone  including the government.For the past year, the debate in Washington has just been a debate. Though there have been many panels, papers and hearings, no bill requiring a backdoor had been introduced.Across the pond, the U.K. is already considering a proposal called the Investigatory Powers Bill that would require technology companies to assist the government in bypassing encryption. There is also growing pressure for that bill to be fast-tracked following the Paris terror attacks.McCains statements mean a new cryptowar could be kicking off in the United Statesas well.On Tuesday night, the ACLUs Christopher Soghoian weighed in on McCains statements. He Tweetedhe was not excited by the prospect of another cryptowar, but that the privacy advocacy grouphad been preparing for some time.Senator McCain announces new War on Math. https://t.co/OfEgyRTL62 pic.twitter.com/wadpK71lsl Christopher Soghoian (@csoghoian) November 18, 2015The real question will be how a bill requiring companies to provide access to law enforcementis framed. Much of the debate so far has been very vague and hypothetical. Lawmakers have thrown around terms like back doors and front doors, but they have not clearly laid out what they want from technology companies. As the encryption debate ramps up at the same time asthe 2016 election, much of that nuance will likely be lost.This article was updated to clarifythat Apple has encrypted Facetime and iMessage calls since 2011.