
Matt Mitchell is a new media executive focused on subscription strategies, user acquisition, e-commerce and finance. The Newspaper Association of Americas annual MediaXchange conference is this weekend. And whileI wont be at this years event, Ive been a member, attendee and sponsor in the past, and willattend again in the future.Like the 17th iteration of Groundhog Day, sessions will focus on digital issuesnewspapers continue to face. (Advice: if you want to live, dont play a drinking game at MediaXchangewhere the sip trigger is someone saying In the new digital world It was the new world 20 yearsago. Now its just the world.)By now we all know the problem. U.S. newspapers are losing a billion dollars in revenue a year. Manyhave gone out of business and those that remain have 40% smaller staffs than they did in 1989.The most frustrating part of newspapers downward spiral is that its happening while they have thegreatest competitive advantage in the crowded new digital world. (Drink.) In our cluttered digitallandscape consumers are less trusting and more cynical than ever before, making strong brands hard tobuild and harder still to sustain. Digital nativepublishers would kill to have the brand awareness andtrust that newspapers have cultivated over decades. Even if theyve cancelled their subscription, peoplestill have an attachment to their local newspaper that the Huffington Posts of the world cant replicate.The idea of newspaper brand trust isnt all that novel and wont be overlooked at MediaXchange.According to David Chavern, NAAs new CEO: Legacy newspapers actually have a huge advantage[because] if you have high-value branded content with growing engagement by valued consumers, thenyour ad inventory is both scarce and valuable.The problem, which I think newspapers would be the first admit, is that they have barely begun toleverage this advantage.Trust is everything if you want to make money. Blue chip brands only work with and pay premiums totrusted blue chip content creators.MediaXchange will again look to leverage that big S in their SWOT discussions (they wont call it SWOTbecause thats lame but theyll have the discussion). Unfortunately, what will then ensue is a massive ad-tech and social media echo chamber  copied, pasted, repackaged amalgams of the same intransigent formulas from a playbook thats been dusted off, recycled and sold for more than it was initially worth.This dynamic isnt happening because of industry or management incompetence. Ive worked withhundreds of newspapers and they are an incredibly smart group. So why are newspapers failing to rightthe ship? It can be boiled down to two problems.Pew Research Centers Project for Excellence in Journalism did a study not too long ago called TheSearch for a New Business Model. In exchange for anonymity, newspaper executives gave startlingly candid commentary.More than three-quarters said their single biggest challenge was their newspapersinternal culture. One said, You can change CEOs, executive VPs, digital VPs. You can wave this magicwand all you want. But at the end of the day, the troops in the field hunker down.After years of being pitched seven-minute-ab ideas from the young smooth talking new media andreading how bad things are, who wouldnt lose some mojo and freeze a bit?Id like to hear more ideas that are completely new models for newspapers rather than attempts tobetter optimize what theyre already doing. For instance:There is tons of competition in flash sales, daily deals, subscription fashion boxes and other e-commerceplays. All the funding in the space has resulted in robust APIs and players with the resources to createinteresting partnerships. Sites like Shopify, Zulily and Gilt should be jumping at the opportunity topartner with newspapers.Conversion rates are directly proportional to consumers level of trust. According to Pew Research,customers terminate 70% of online purchases because of a lack of trust. If only there was an industrygroup with 100+ years of built-in brand equity!Mobile proliferation works in newspapers favor too. Mobile commerce is growing nearly 3 times fasterthan all other e-commerce. 50% of all mobile searches are conducted in hopes of finding local results,and 61% of those searches result in some sort of purchase. (Search Engine Watch).According to NAA,half of the 180 million unique newspaper visitors use a mobile device exclusively. Hmmm.Dont do this halfway thoughDipping their toes in e-commerce isnt a completely foreign idea to newspapers. Okanjo, a start-up thatallows for Facebook style Buy-it-now buttons in ads, was selected as a winner in NAAs AcceleratorPitch program in 2015. While a good start, this is still following the leader. Facebook is doing what? Canwe do that?Giving readers the ability to purchase a half second after seeing an ad has been around for years. Buy-it-now buttons inside ad real estate provides a more storefront feel, giving newspapers the hope that theycan capture more of the shared economics of a purchase. But effective RPM (Revenue per thousandimpressions) data proves that its nothing more than ads repackaged with some interactivity. The pitchis appealing but at the end of the day all it will do is shift business to a different ad-tech startup, onlymarginally improving ad revenue for newspapers.Ideas like this are still inside-the-box thinking. Not metaphorically, I mean literally inside the same divor iframe ad-box where newspapers currently mine the majority of their insufficient digital revenue.Remember, their cheese was moved to Mars; looking under the seat cushion in the living room isntgoing to uncover a transformative revenue stream.It needs to be deeper. With the right partnershipsdigital papers can be a destination. They dont need to be just another distribution channel for e-commerce companies.Consumers have to be nurtured through each part of the buying funnel and be made aware thatnewspapers are now their trusted source to for products and deals. Inform your users (over and over)that you are supporting your community by finding and partnering with the best deals and products,with the best service, from the best companies. Youre opening a Seattle Times store!Instead of hopingyour users buy a hoverboard while theyre reading about city council initiatives, youll have brandedyourself has a place to go for deals and potentially even general online shopping down the road. Youshould even have a separate Curated Deals app.Then youre not just catching up to Facebook, youre leveraging an asset Facebook doesnt have.Facebooks only similar market option is relying on its users to market products to their friends. Theycant be a trusted commerce brand because they lack that whole, you know, trust part.Fewer than 20% of people ages 25-34 read the newspaper daily, down from 41% in 2003. Incrediblythough  defying the laws of everything  while newspapers are in a freefall, applications to journalismschools are skyrocketing. This will leave millions of writers so starved to be printed that theyll likely givetheir content away to Demand Media. Wait, this is already happening.Who do you think young journalists who speak millennia would rather have on their resume  DemandMedia or the Los Angeles Times?You dont even have to wait until they graduate and need to make a real salary. Give them beat gigs andbrand them Ground Troops. It will be a prestigious position. And dont take applications: organize acontest where you select a few for each section of your paper.These ground troopers will be writing with nothing to lose, and everything to gain from making a splash.If you pick the right ones, theyll bring the millennials to you. Millennials who buy things and influenceothers.Theyll also bring a contagious new energy and challenge the old guard to step up. Growing up, everytime our family dog would get old wed buy a puppy. Guess what? Damn it if that old dog didnt get asecond wind! He sure did. What Im saying is, buy your family a new pup. Hell be annoyingand youll have to potty train him but hell also be amazing.Give them podcast and videocast platforms too. The number of annual podcast downloads is over 3billion now and growing by more than 50% per year. You dont have to create the next Serial. These arelow risk, high return investments, so throw a bunch of them on the wall and see what sticks. The onlyreason newspaper content has been exclusively article-based the last 100 years is because deliveringtape recorders on subscribers lawns every morning wasnt a cost effective distribution strategy.According to intense research I did scanning headshots on the NAAs Board of Directors webpage theydont have one member under the age of 45. As boards go, this is common and generally theres nothingwrong with it. But if attracting youth is your greatest problem this seems like low hanging fruit. I wouldgo so far as to elect 2-3 university student representatives on a rolling basis.The NAA should allow all journalism schools accredited by the ACEJMC to elect a student representativeto attend MediaXchange for free each year. Thats fewer than 150 students. Allow them all to apply tobe on a new student panel at MediaXchange as well.The board should have every director pick an exhibitor theyve never met to have coffee or a beer withat MediaXchange. You can call it Spicoli meets Mr. Hand (working title). Those exhibitors are thepeople trying to solve newspaper problems. 90% of them are digital monetization and engagementpeople, right? Sounds like a good opportunity to me. The NAA board members could hold an internaldraft every year to decide who gets to meet with which each exhibitor.Newspapers will never enjoy an oligopoly again. We live in a world where the series finales of BreakingBad, Mad Men and The Office combined had fewer viewers than the series finale of Alf. As Chris Rocksays, people are only as faithful as their options. Consumers are still into you, newspapers, but big,sweeping changes have to happen now.Newspapers are reaching a critical point. Their brands are on the precipice of significant value andopportunity loss. When the tail-end of the millennials who dont have fond memories of their parentsreading the paper enter their 30s and control the most coveted brand demographic, it will be over.Nobody has a stopwatch on exactly when that will happen but I do know the needle needs to startmoving faster now.