What is it about us that makes us do weird things on new apps? Just two days into the launch of the new live streaming app Periscope and showing off the contents of our fridge to thousands of strangers around the Internet is a thing. The hashtags #fridgeview and #showusyourfridge regularly pop up during live streaming events on Periscope.This is a phenomenon that does not seem to exist on Periscopes live streaming rival Meerkat, but the two share another common theme  streams of the mundane. I watched a guy show off his pineapple in the early days of Meerkat (meaning a couple of weeks ago). Over 700 people tuned in as this guy described a pineapple on his counter for several minutes. I have no idea why that many people were on the stream. Perhaps they were like me  they were waiting for there to be more to it than that.Twitter went off in a similar food-themed direction as itstarted to gain in popularity. For some odd reason the prompt to answer what are you doing? on the site led people to tweet out what they had for breakfast.@apollozac Show us your fridge! #fridgeview pic.twitter.com/hDAZr5Ds28 Dan Devine (@dandevine) March 29, 2015Early tweets were even more mundane, beginning with Jack Dorseys now infamous, Just setting up my twttr. Long before the Arab Spring and other prominent news events, we were in a trying to figure this thing out phase.Were now in that same exploratory phase with live streaming, according to Meerkat founder Ben Rubin.When we were kids we had photos but we didnt know what life stream (he emphasized that he calls it life stream and not live stream) wasso we didnt have the tools yet to understand whats a good life stream. When live video comes its still into an exploratory phase. Were in an exploratory phase, he said.For Rubin the idea of a live streamed pineapple doesnt have to be boring, either. Done right, it can be hilarious, he said.Product Hunt founder Ryan Hoover compares peoples odd Periscope and Meerkat mannerismsto the early days of Uber Pool and Lyft Line. The social rules werent established then. You werent sure when you got in the car if you should talk to the other person.Were still figuring the rules out with live streaming, according to Hoover. He says memes like the contents of your fridge are something that smooths the awkwardness and brings us together. This whole fridge thing, its sort of this insider club that only certain people know about and it gives everyone a commonality, Hooversaid.Of course its not just about overcoming awkward social moments with each other. Both apps have some serious potential to empower citizen journalists and upend live television broadcasting as well. We already saw Periscope flex its broadcast muscle on the first day of its launch last week when hundreds of users live streamed a building explosion in New York Citys East Village.Its early days for both apps and, like the early days of telling people what we are doing on Twitter, it may take us a while. In the meantime, there seems to be no end to dogs, cats and the contents of everyones fridge.#periscope is nuts. U hv to get on now while its in its infancy. Pretty sure it's gonna blow up. Oh, and #fridgeview. Reddington Underwood (@peteyflacco) March 27, 2015