Disrupt Londonis almost here, and we have some of the most iconic entrepreneurs and thought leaders in the tech industry lined up to speak at what will surely be the best Disrupt Europe yet.The two-day conference kicks off on December 7 in the Olympic Villages Copper Box Arena and wraps the following day with the finals of Startup Battlefield where one startup will take home 30,000. You can still buy tickets for Disrupt Londonhere.You can find full details about the event right here. Weve compiled this list ofthe speakers and judges we are proud to announce and when you can expect to see them take the stage (all in GMT). Study up!Tim Armstrong was appointed CEO and Chairman of AOL in March 2009. Before becoming the CEO of AOL, Armstrong presided over Googles North American and Latin American advertising sales and operations teams.Armstrong will speak at 10:50am on Tuesday, December 8th.Alexandre Barbosa is the founder and managing director of Faber Ventures. Barbosa will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th at 3:45pm.Alice Bentinck co-founded EF (Entrepreneur First). EF is a place for Europes top technical individuals to meet and build world-changing startups in London. Bentinck will judge Startup Battlefield at 5:00pm on Monday, December 7th.Chris Blackford is the co-founder and COO at Sky-Futures. Blackford will speak at 9:45am on Tuesday, December 8th.Laurel Bowden is a general partner at 83North (formerly Greylock IL), which she joined in 2008. Her areas of focus include: software, internet and fintech. Bowden will speak at 12:25pm on Monday, December 7th.Jay Bregman is the founder & CEO of Verifly. Veriflys mission is to be the trust and compliance authority for drones and robots.Bregman will speak at 9:45am on Tuesday, December 8th.Nicolas Brusson is co-founder & COO of BlaBlaCar, aleading ridesharing community that connects drivers with empty seats. He leads the companys global operations and marketing.Brusson will speak at 4:40pm on Tuesday, December 8th.Eileen Burbidge is a partner at Passion Capital, the pre-eminent early-stage VC fund based in London. She brings extensive operational experience to her investment activities gleaned from business and product roles at Yahoo!, Skype, Apple and elsewhere.Burbidgewill speak at 12:25pm on Monday, December 7th and judge Startup Battlefield Finals on Tuesday, December 8th at 11:30am.Gareth Capon is the CEO of Grabyo, a real time video start-up based in London. Caponbrings more than 16 years experience in digital, mobile and television covering both corporates and startups. Prior to joining Grabyo, Gareth was a product development director at Sky where he managed Skys award winning mobile app portfolio and led investments in tech startups in Europe and North America. Capon will speak at 2:00pm on Monday, December 7th.Suranga Chandratillake joined Balderton as a Partner in 2014. He was previously an entrepreneur and engineer. Suranga founded blinkx, the intelligent search engine for video and audio content in Cambridge in 2004. Chandratillake will judge Startup Battlefield Finals on Tuesday, December 8th at 11:30am.Alex Depledge is the straight talking British businesswoman best known for being the driving force behind Hassle.com. Depledge will speak at 9:25am on Tuesday, December 8th and judge Startup Battlefield Finals on Tuesday, December 8th at 11:30am.Fred Destin joined Accel in 2014 and focuses on consumer and software investments. He is the lead investor and board member at Deliveroo, Pillpack and KNC. Prior to Accel, he was a partner at Atlas Ventures. Destin will speak at 11:45am on Monday, December 7th and judge Startup Battlefield Finals on Tuesday December 8th at 11:30am.Pieter van der Does is the co-founder, president and CEOof Ayden. He is aleading expert with over 15 years experience in the payments industry. Van der Does will speak at 3:10pm on Tuesday, December 8th.Marie Ekeland is theco-founder of Daphni, a new VC fund based in Paris that has yet to launch. Ekeland was previously a partner atElaia. She has been evolving in the finance & IT industry since 1997: first on the operational side and then as a VC. She will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th at 2:30pm.Carlos Eduardo Espinal joined first round fund Seedcamp as partner in 2010. Seedcamp invests smart capital into pre-seed and seed stage startups.Prior to Seedcamp, Espinalwas a venture capitalist at Doughty Hanson Technology Ventures, an early stage investment firm based in London. He will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th at 5:00pm.Sir Alex Fergusonretired as manager of Manchester United in May 2013 following a period of over 26 years at the helm. Over the course of a management career that lasted 39 years, he won 49 major trophies, making him the most successful manager in the history of British football. He is speaking at 9:45am on Monday, December 7th.Cristina Fonseca is a software engineer and entrepreneur. She holds a Masters degree in Telecommunications and Software Engineering from the Technical University of Lisbon and before founding Talkdesk she worked as a researcher and built two other online businesses. Fonseca will speak at 2:30pm on Tuesday, December 8th and judge Startup Battlefield Finals at 11:30am on Tuesday, December 8th.Agustin Gomez is a co-founder andCEO at Wallapop. Previously with iSOCO, the Boston Consulting Group, and Accenture, Gomez attended the respected ESADE Business School. Together with the Wallapop team, he is developing a disruptive new kind of mobile P2P marketplace. Gomez will speak at 10:10am on Tuesday, December 8th.Jenny Griffiths is the founder and CEO of Snap Fashion, and a software engineer turned entrepreneur. She started Snap Fashion in 2009, after graduating from with a Masters of Engineering degree in Computer Science from the University of Bristol. Griffiths will speak at 11:20am on Monday, December 7th.Imogen Jennifer Heap is an English singer-songwriter and composer. She is known for her work as part of the musical duo Frou Frou and her solo albums, which she writes, produces, and mixes. She has produced four solo albums. Her 2009 album, Ellipse, was a North American chart success that earned Heap two Grammy nominations, winning Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical in recognition of her technical and engineering work on the record. In 2010 she received the British Academys Ivor Novello Award for International Achievement. She will speak on Tuesday December 8th at 5:20pm.Thierry Henry is a retired French professional footballer who played as a forward. He played for Monaco, Juventus, Barcelona, New York Red Bulls and spent eight years at Arsenal where he is the clubs all-time record goalscorer. He is also an investor in London startup Grabyo. Henry will speak at 2:00pm on Monday, December 7th.Austin Hillis an entrepreneur and active investor. In 1994, Austin founded one of the first Internet providers in Canada, Total.Net. After that, he co-founded ZeroKnowledge Systems.Hill was a Venture Partner with Montreal Startup and helped create Real Ventures. Hill is now with Blockstream and will be speaking on the Blockchain panelat 3:30pm on Tuesday, December 8th.Taavet Hinrikus is co-founder of TransferWise, the international money transfer platform. The business allows regular people to access the real mid-market exchange rate by cutting out traditional banking fees altogether. Hinrikus will speak at 9:05am on Monday, December 7th.David Hornik joined August Capital in 2000. He invests broadly in information technology companies, with a focus on enterprise application and infrastructure software and consumer facing software and services. Hornik will speak at 10:35am on Monday, December 7th.Charles Hudson is the managing partner with Precursor Ventures, an early-stage venture capital firm focused on investments on investing in strong teams in the business to business and business to consumer software markets. Prior to founding Precursor, Charles was a Partner with SoftTech VC, one of the most active seed stage investors in Internet and mobile startups. Hudson will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday December 7th at 3:45pm.Marco Jansen is founder andCTO of Catawiki; a fast-growing European online auction house. Jansenhas a MSc in Computer Science (University of Twente). Before starting Catawiki in 2008 he worked as agile project and delivery manager for ThoughtWorks in London and Bangalore. Jansen will speak at 2:50pm on Tuesday, December 8th.Bindi Kariais passionate about all things startup in Europe and connecting the dots between investors, founders and corporates. In addition to a former role as vice president at Silicon Valley Bank, shehas worked in and around technology startups for most of her career. Karia will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th at 2:30pm.Thomas Korte is the founder of AngelPad, a startup accelerator based in San Francisco and New York. Korte will speak at 10:35am on Monday, December 7th.Jeff Lawson is co-founder and CEO of Twilio, where he brings over 10 years of entrepreneurial product leadership experience. Before Twilio, Jeff served as product manager for Amazon Web Services. Lawson will speak at 9:05am on Tuesday, December 8th.Bastian Lehmann is the CEO of Postmates, the on-demand delivery company he co-founded in 2011. Lehmann will speak at 10:15am on Monday, December 7th.Mattias Ljungman launched Atomico in 2006 alongside Niklas Zennstrm, sourcing investments and building Atomicos team of experts who help portfolio companies to scale globally. Ljungman will judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th at 3:45pm.Andy McLoughlin is a venture partner with SoftTech VC, one of the most active seed stage investors in Internet, SaaS and mobile startups. McLoughlin primarily invests in B2B, SaaS, developer tools and mobile applications. McLoughlin will speak at 10:35am on Monday, December 7th and judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th.Buddy Michini is a founding member and CTO of Airware. As CTO, Michinihelps guide the long-term product roadmap to incorporate new developments from industry and academia into the Airware product line. He will speak at 9:45am on Tuesday, December 8th.Ambarish Mitrais the CEO and co-founder of Blippar, aleading visual browser and fast-growing augmented reality player. Under his direction, Blippar has grown from groundbreaking idea to an industry leader. Mitra will speak on Tuesday, December 8th at 2:10pm.Sir Michael Moritz is chairman of Sequoia Capital where he has worked since 1986. Moritzrepresented Sequoia in its investments in Google, Yahoo, PayPal, Flextronics, Kayak, Pure Digital, and Zappos.com. Moritz will speak at 9:45am on Monday, December 7th.Filipa Neto is co-founder and CEO of Chic by Choice, a European luxury rental marketplace allowing women to rent items sourced from brands and e-commerce platforms at a fraction of the retail price. Neto will speak at 11:20am on Monday, December 7th.Jos Neves launched Farfetch in 2008, bringing together his interests in fashion and technology, as well as his experience in design, wholesale and retail, to create a business that would celebrate and support the diversity of the global fashion industry. Neves will speak at 11:20am on Monday, December 7th.Niklas stberg is a Swedish entrepreneur and the co-founder and CEO of Delivery Hero. He holds a Master of Industrial Engineering & Management from Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm & ETH Zurich. Ostberg will speak at 12:05pm on Monday, December 7th.Danny Rimer is a general partner at Index Ventures, based in San Francisco.He currently serves on the boards of Flipboard, Patreon, 1stdibs, Farfetch, Sky, Good Eggs, Nasty Gal, Viagogo, Dropbox, Anki, and SFMOMA. Rimer will speak at 9:25am Monday, December 7th.NeilRimerco-founded Index Ventures with Giuseppe Zocco and David Rimer in 1996. Previously he spent 4 years with Montgomery Securities in San Francisco.Rimer will speak at 9:25am Monday, December 7th.Sonali De Rycker joined Accel in 2008 and helps lead the London office. Sonali focuses on consumer, software and financial services businesses. She led Accels investments in Avito, Lyst, Spotify, Wallapop, KupiVIP, Top10, Calastone, Wonga and SilveRail. De Rycker will speak at 12:25pm on Monday, December 7th, and judge Startup Battlefield on Monday, December 7th at 3:45pm.Oliver Samwer is the founder and CEO of Rocket Internet. Samwer is responsible for strategy development and implementation, business development and investor relations. He will speak at 10:10am on Monday, December 8th.William Shu co-founded Deliveroo in August 2012 with Greg Orlowski. Prior to Deliveroo, Shuworked as an analyst for SAC Capital and ESO Capital. He will speak at 11:45am on Monday, December 7th.Sebastian Siemiatkowskiis co-founder and CEO of Klarna, one of Europes main providers of payment solutions for e-commerce. Siemiatkowski will speak atonMonday, December 7th.Steve Waterhouse is a partner at Pantera Capital. He is an entrepreneur whose experience spans the lifecycle of venture-backed startups. In 2000, he joined Infrasearch, a peer-to-peer search engine acquired by Sun Microsystems. He held several positions at Sun, including creating the Honeycomb storage product line. Waterhouse will speak at 3:30pm on Tuesday, December 8th.Azmat Yusufisa founder at Citymapper Limited. Yusuf previously worked at Google, as well as in the venture capital and equities fields for international banks. He started the app in 2011 as a guide for Londoners to navigate the citys bus network. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania with a degree in both Electrical Engineering and Economics and received his MBA from INSEAD in 2009. Yusuf will speak at 4:10pm on Tuesday, December 8th.Alice Zagury is founder and CEO of TheFamily. She will judge Startup Battlefield at 5:00pm on Monday, December 7th.