Did I mention were having a pitch-off in Brooklyn tomorrow night? Because we are!It will be held at Output in Williamsburg at 6pm, and tickets are still available, which you can buy here. But what is a pitch-off?Well, ten companies have been selected to show off their wares on our stage. They will have exactly sixty seconds to wow a panel of expert judges and the audience, after which theyll survive a quick Q&A. At the end of all the pitches, the judges (and the audience) will determine the winners. First place gets a table in Startup Alley at TC Disrupt NY in May. Second place gets two tickets to the conference and the Audience Choice Winner walks away with one ticket to the big show. But who are our judges?Amol co-founded several startups including Virgin Mobile USA, Peek, Halo Neuroscience, Knotable, BEMAVEN, Knotel, and built a building in New York called East of East. He studied cognitive science for his Ph.D. at Stanford with undergraduate degree from Columbia. is the sole Partner and Founder at Brooklyn Bridge Ventures.  The fund makes seed and pre-seed investments and was the first venture firm located in Brooklynwhere he was born and raised.  Brooklyn Bridge invested in the first rounds of Canary, Orchard Platform, Tinybop, Hungryroot, Clubhouse, Ringly, and goTenna among others.Sutian Dong is a Partner at Female Founders Fund, a seed-stage investor of technology companies founded by women. They believe that there is a large opportunity to bridge the gap in funding the next generation of female-led technology businesses. The fund has built a network of investors and female founders nationwide to provide access to strategic deal flow and serve as resource for the portfolio.Most recently, she was an investor at FirstMark Capital, a leading early stage venture fund in New York City. Prior to that, she was the Director of Marketing at Norisol Ferrari, a womenswear couture line based in New York City.Nimi is an investor at BoxGroup, a seed stage venture fund based in NYC. BoxGroup invests in talented entrepreneurs building technology companies with visions to create the next generation of category defining businesses.Prior to joining BoxGroup, Nimi worked at Google as a product marketing manager focused on growing small business advertisers. In a prior life, she was an investment banker at J.P. Morgan advising power and energy clients on financing, mergers, and acquisitions.Nimi earned her MBA with Distinction from Harvard Business School and Bachelor of Arts degree cum laude in Economics from Harvard College.
 John lives in Brooklyn, NY and writes about technology, security, gadgets, gear, wristwatches, and the Internet. After spending four years as an IT programmer, he switched gears and became a full-time journalist. His work has appeared in the New York Times, Laptop, PC Upgrade, Surge, Gizmodo, Mens Health, InSync, Linux Journal, Popular Science, Sync, The Stir and hes written Black Hat: Misfits, Criminals, and Scammers in the Internet Age and Bloggers Boot Camp. He also speaks and consults. He has forthcoming books about Marie Antoinettes watch as well as a YA fiction book, Mytro. He is currently East Coast Editor of TechCrunch.com and runs the BWL family of blogs, SlushPile.net and WristWatchReview.com. He also records the HourTime Podcast with Ariel Adams. Again, I urge you to buy tickets and come hang out in BK with me tomorrow. See you there!Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you want to learn more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com. 