TechCrunch is headed to Grand Rapids to host our first mini-meetup and pitch-off in West Michigan. The doors open tomorrow, Thursday May 21st, at 5:00. Expect the pitches to start around 5:30. Thanks to Start Garden, the event is free and there will be an open bar that hopefully serves some great local beers.I hear the venue is almost at capacity. RSVP here to reserve a spot.Five local startups will present their company to John, myself and Joe Malcoun, CEO of Nutshell and an Ann Arbor investor. We cant wait.Over the last few years TechCrunch has hosted countless meetups and pitch-offs. We do this to learn more about the area and bring the community together. Honestly, attending these meetups is one of the best things about working for TechCrunch.See you tomorrow, Grand Rapids.Below are the five local companies presenting at the event.OXX Coffeeboxx  The COFFEEBOXX single cup brewing system is ready for anything. Say goodbye to lukewarm thermos coffee and hello to cup after cup of fresh, hot joe. Finally, good coffee for people who know how to get their hands dirty.Benefit  Life is expensive, whether its paying for healthcare, a mortgage bill, or your education. When you choose to fund lifes expenses Benefit gives a percentage of your everyday transactions back to you to apply to the things that matter most.Sportsman Tracker  Sportsman Tracker takes the guesswork out when targetting inland game species such as Largemouth Bass. More accurate than solunar calendars alone. Utilize an algorithm based on 7 scientific weather variables proven to identify and predict wildlife movement.AdAdaptive  The AdAdapted platform gives independent app publishers easy-to-use technology for serving customized native ads and a straightforward digital marketplace that connects their apps with advertisers. At the same time AdAdapted provides a simple and efficient interface for those advertisers to find the right audience, and to streamline their efforts across multiple mid-tier apps. By solving the pain points of both the publishers and advertisers, AdAdapted also enhances the user experience by replacing disruptive banner ads.RespondWell  RespondWell is a digital health company empowering physical therapists and physicians to engage patients anywhere through gamified tele-rehabilitation. As the developers of the worlds first fitness game, RespondWell saw the opportunity to marry the art of reward and game theory with the science of physical therapy to create a ground-breaking delivery system that moves physical therapy into the next chapter of patient care.