By all accounts, the London startup scene was abuzz with Entrepreneur Firsts latest Demo Day today, as 25 startups  up from nine!  took to the stage to pitch their wares. The so-called talent first investor targets the best technical graduates in Europe and beyond to put them through a six-month program where they form teams and in turn found startups.This pre-team, pre-idea approach is what sets EF apart from other accelerators, while the emphasis on technical talent  95 percent of the cohort who presented today have a technical background  is producing some very interesting results. This could be game changing for the U.K. ecosystem, is how one serial entrepreneur put it to me prior to the event.To that end, and building on last years intake, startups on stage spanned cybersecurity, AI, robots, fintech and much more. Specifically, of the fifth cohort, 45 percent are described as working on deep technology, 70 percent are B2B/enterprise products, and 16 percent are hardware (see the full list below).Meanwhile, EF made a number of additional announcements today, as it looks to further scale up the programme now that it feels the model has been proven. Along with expansion to Asia, the investor will be extendingits six-month programme to 12 months, underpinned by a new fund to support graduating startups during subsequent funding rounds.And as we reported earlier in the day, Wendy Tan White and Joe White, angel investors and founders of website builder Moonfruit (sold to Yell in 2012 for $37 million in cash), are joining Entrepreneur First as General Partners. They were both previously EF Venture Partners, and I know from my own discussions that Wendy Tan White has always been very bullish on EFs unique approach.Were not an accelerator  that model is broken, says Entrepreneur Firstco-founder Alice Bentinck in a statement. We back talented individuals pre-team, pre-idea to create startups from scratch. We create companies that are focused on defensible technology that capitalises on the technical skills of the cohort. The companies coming out of the programme are incredibly impressive, especially when you think that only six months ago, they simply didnt exist.