Nextweek, the TechCrunch team will be in Stockholm for the TechCrunch Meetup + Pitch-Off to network and hear up to 10 startups pitch. The startups and winners will be written about, and this is also your chance to meet and network with key TechCrunch journalists.The winner of the pitch will get a booth in Startup Alley at TechCrunch Disrupt in London. Second and third places will respectively get two tickets and one ticket for the big show.If you want to attend the event, you can still grab a ticket.Date: June 7
Time: 6-10pm
Venue: Mnchenbryggeriet, StockholmBUY TICKETS HEREAnd today we are delighted to announce our judges.Marta Sjgren
Marta is an investor with Northzone, where her focus is on companies in the consumer internet, edtech, recruitment, fintech, security, and gaming sectors. Her portfolio includes companies like Sqore, Behaviosec and Aevy. Before joining Northzone in 2012, Marta was an Investment Analyst at DN Capital in London, where she worked with several of their portfolio companies in the digital media and fintech verticals. She holds an MSc in European Business from ESPC Europe.Sean Percival
Sean Percival is a Partner at 500 Startups and investor in over 100+ early stage startups. His focus is on the Nordic region and accelerator programs. Previously Sean was the co-
founder of Wittlebee, the kids clothing club and Vice President of Online Marketing at Myspace.Mattias Ljungman
Mattias launched Atomico in 2006 alongside Niklas Zennstrm, sourcing investments and building Atomicos team of experts who help portfolio companies to scale globally. In that time, Mattias has been involved with exits or substantial transactions in companies including Supercell (sold a majority stake to SoftBank over two transactions in 2013 and 2015), 6Wunderkinder (acquired by Microsoft in 2015), The Climate Corporation (acquired by Monsanto for $1.1B in 2013), Xobni (acquired by Yahoo! in 2013) and Power Reviews (acquired by Bazaarvoice in 2012). Before launching Atomico, Mattias was the head of investments at CLS Holdings where he was responsible for the sale of Sit Up TV for $360 million in 2005, and held previous roles working in M&A consultancy at LEK and in fund management at Valu-Trac. He holds a Masters from the Stockholm School of Economics and a BA with Honors from McGill University.Lars Jrnow
Lars Jrnow is a founding partner at EQT Ventures, passionate about mobile product development and growth. He previously spent 6 years at King Digital, where he was integral in the transformation from web to Facebook, then from Facebook to Mobile. He headed up the team that produced and launched the global hit Candy Crush Saga. He has also kicked off Kings Growth team and King Labs.Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If youre interested in learning more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.