Pinterest has built plenty of its technology on open source projects, so of course it wants to open its projects up to the developer community, as well. So the company has built a committeeat Pinterest dedicated to making its tools available to the open source community when it thinks they are ready.Enter Pinterests open source committee, a team of engineers that got together two years ago: Pawel Garbacki, Ludo Antonov and Dannie Chu. There wasnt a formal open source initiative at Pinterest  in fact, engineers at Pinterest didnt even know they were allowed to open source their technology  which brought Chu, Antonov and Garbacki together.Over time, the committee developed an ambassador program for teams. Each team has a representative that joins the committee once a month to discuss current open-sourceprojects, those being considered for open sourcing, or what new projects can be open sourced. Its not seen as a gating process, but more of a governing body that helps make sure open sourced projects have a higher chance of success, Antonov said.I dont think weve seen any spectacular conflicts where someone wanted to open source a piece of crap, and the manager said no or something, Garbacki said. Its been working really smoothly, if you have the right people in the room you can trust that its going to work.Engineers at the company are usually looking for more exposure, and its great for developing engineers within the company, Chu said. It gets them excited to work on things outside of day-to-day activities to help them grow as an engineer. And of course, all of this brings anopportunity here to identify and attract engineering talent to companies like Pinterest when they contribute to open source projects.We know open sourceis a great opportunity to build our engineering brand, Chu said.Culture-wise there are a lot of benefits to open-sourcing, the way in which you build softwareto be open-sourceable, opens up the system to be more maintainable, extensible, because you know other people are looking.That program extends across the company, Antonov said, and the ambassadors encourage engineers to think carefully about what should be considered for open source. That also encourages engineers to generally improve their code because they know itll be very public-facing. That means reducing dependencies, and it also forced the company to think about isolation of various code bases so they work separately, while still being an integral part of what the company does, Antonov said.A lot of open source projects, because weve taken the time to look at whether this is a good open source initiative, has actually allowed these projects to develop in this componentized way in a way you have clear dependencies and its a lot easier for other teams to adopt other peoples code and maintain that code independently, Chu said.Still, there isnt exactlydedicated team thatopen sourcestechnology at Pinterest. When someone thinksa project is a good candidate to open source, the committee provides them with guidance of what good open source projects look like.The three drew from experience and as part of a three to six month project to codify all the process in order to assist project owners that want to open source their technology.A lot of it came down to bucketing what the process looked like in terms of a coherent framework that project owners can draw from. They need a crisp path so they know how to get from point A to point B, Antonov said.There are other benefits to open sourcing technology. For example, developers may end up discovering use cases for technology that Pinterest developers may not have thought about. Those discoveries can then be fed back into Pinterests projects.One recent example is PinLater, a tool that helps companies update activities between two users asynchronously. When someone hits a pin button, itll show up immediately for that user, but it doesnt have to show up for followers right away. That can be useful for users whohave millions of followers, for example, which might cause a strain on Pinterests service. Another potential application is sending out push notifications.Whenever we build, since we rely on open source, that engagement helps us work better with the community, Raghavendra Prabhu, Pinterests head of infrastructure and the lead behind PinLater, said. We also get the benefits. The community canbuildcapabilities we cant imagine.There are a fewthings that define a good open source project, Antonov said: It has to beexternally useful; its hardened in production (basically, it works and is high quality); and it has to be a work in progress  as in, the company has to continue contributing.The committee coaches future maintainers to continue contributing and maintaining the code once it enters the general engineering community.In terms of quality, the project has to actually work in production internally, Antonov said. It also has to be easily adoptable and easy to understand in the on-boarding process, hesays.We dont want to ship out an improvement to a data storage system, and know that other companies when they adopt it that it has issues, that makes our brand look bad, Chu said. In terms of code style and quality, people dont worry too much about that as long as it works.Managers have to get througha couple of steps before the project actually gets open sourced.The project owners first fill out a pre-flight checklist that make them think about whether a project is a good candidate for open source, and what requirements it should meet to qualify for it. That also has a section for legal approval, where the committee works with a legal team to approve it and make sure there are no dependencies on incompatible licenses.Once managers clear the requirements, if the projects source code is served with other projects that arent open sourcing, the code goes into final checks to ensure there are no internal passwords or the like.At that point, a member of the committee gets involved to make sure it meets quality and legal requirements  and then they flip the switch and make the repository public.Every project is stilla work in process. The company nezxeds a bigger body of maintainers, Garbacki said. Like other open source projects, it also needs dedicated members from the community that will help maintain and make decisions as to whereengineering projects go.The internal pressure is there, Chu said. If you know your code is gonna be maintained and potentially extended by someone else, it makes your ears perk up a bit and makes you want to pay a little more attention to how other people will be perceiving your code and will be able to add to it.