Matt Murphy, who left his role as a general partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers earlier this year, is joining Menlo Ventures as a managing director.Murphy will be focusing on enterprise infrastructure and mobile first apps that apply to either consumer or the enterprise. In terms of the mobile first apps part, he pointed to applications like Slack and DocuSign as some examples of enterprise apps that center around bringing an employees workflow to mobile devices that fit that description, as well asShazam on the consumer side.That focus is an area where Murphy has some experience. At Kleiner Perkins, he led the firms iFund, which started in 2007 and became a $200 million fund.During that time Kleiner Perkins invested in companies like Shazam and Shopkick, which was acquired for $200 million by SK Telecom in September last year. Murphy also made investments in several companies that have gone public, like AutoNavi andAerohiveNetworks.As soon as Murphy left Kleiner Perkins, the calls started coming in. But Menlo Ventures Mark Siegelhad frequently worked with Murphy  both sit on the board of Pernixdata, for example. Even then, Murphy had beatenMenlo Ventures to a numberdeals during his time at Kleiner Perkins, including on investments like one in Puppet Labs, Siegel said. Murphy and Siegel havean extensive history as well, which helped Menlo Ventures seal the deal.Murphys timing is also good, as Menlo Ventures closed a new $400 million fund in April. When asked about why he left Kleiner Perkins, he said he told the firm he wanted change, wanted a new environment, and to see what that would be like  the criteria of that being something smaller.Smaller indeed: Murphy will be the firms seventh partner.Ididnt want to spend my entire venture career at one size a firm in one place, Murphy said. Id seen a lot of my peers go off and start other firms, and I thoughtabout that, but I didnt feel like the world needed yet another venture firm. On top of that, I looked around and said if I thought of a handful of people in the venture business, where are they?. Mark and [Menlo Ventures Managing Director] Venky [Ganesan] were certainly two of those and they were both at one firm.Murphys relationship with Siegel goes back more than two decades, he said, when the two went to business school at Stanford. Murphy knew Ganesan when he was a managing director at Globespan Capital Partners. Murphy, who is 48, comes in at a time when Menlo Ventures is going through a transition as a younger group of partners comes in to run the firm.Menlo Ventures has certainly had a lot of recent success, which no doubt piqued Murphys interest. The firminvested in Uber in the companys $32 million Series B round, and also has investments inRoku, Betterment and Warby Parker.And beyond all that, Siegel said that one of Murphys strongest points was that he was a good cultural fit for the firm  which, given the size, is a pretty big priority for one like Menlo Ventures. Siegel described the groups dynamic as collegial, focused on collaboration and research across the entire firm.Someone has to come in and sort of fit in with that way of doing things, Siegel said. Theres no question, its not for everyone, but its worked reallywell for us. When you work in a small partnership, there arenta lot of buffers. You have to really get a long with those people. You have to have a shared vision, a shared working style, a shared way of interfacing with the rest of the partners thats consistent.Murphy starts at the firm on July 1.