Were hearing from sources that Mesosphere, a company thats built on the open-source project Apache Mesos, is raising a financing round at a valuation that could beas much as$600 million.The talks are, of course, still fluid and valuation numbers are always cloudy so any final deal could end up outside of what were hearing on our end. Thisround in particular comes after a potential deal with Microsoft didnt materialize, according to The Information. And the company sought a valuation north of $300 million in its current financing round,according tothat report.In these cases, a lot of conversations are happening simultaneously, and often usedas negotiating tools for one another. So its possible that this number could end up being what the company is looking for, but not necessarily what its going to get in the end.Mesosphere is built upon that open-source project similar to the way that Cloudera is a commercial entity built on top of Hadoop. It allows IT managers to treat an entire data center as a single pool of resources, instead of having to spin up individual virtual machines. It takes that efficiency you get from virtualizing a single machine and applies it across the data center, essentially enabling you to use whatever resources are available.With that working, system resources tap into that single pool of resources, and the software distributes those jobs across all of the machines available in a cluster, instead of relying on individual virtual machines. In a sense, the entire data center is treated as a virtual machine that systems can tap into. Applications today usually work across multiple cloud-based servers, so it works to make those systems better operate which could reduce overall costs and make online services more efficient and less error-prone.The advantage that a company likes this bring is how it adds value over and above the free open source package  usually offering a combination of service, tools and functions not necessarily available in the free version.Companies like Cloudera and Red Hat have built companies on top of open source projects.The value for a company like this is, like Cloudera, in its applications of the open source technology  and that can attract suitors. Its attracted partners like Microsoft and Nvidia, at the least (and, of course, partnerships can often lead to deeper conversations). The Information also reported that the financing round could be more than $50 million in a strategic round including Microsoft and Intel.The company previouslyraised $36 million in a financing round in October last year. Prior to this financing round, the company raised $50 million.Investors in the company include Andreessen Horowitz, Khosla Ventures and Fuel Capital.