
Juan Lopez Salaberry is an entrepreneur-turned VC. After a stint at 500 Startups, he is now back in the field and blogs from mindthegap.co.Miamiis a city of many traits. Historically recognized for the sun, beach and tourists of South Beach, it has now become much more than that. With one of the most diverse populations in the country,Miamiis the strategiccapitalof the Americas, binding Brazil and Spanish-speakingLatin America(LatAm) to theU.S. market.Miami isnow the second most entrepreneurial city in theU.S., with the highest startup density in the country at247.6 startups per 100,000 people, according to the Kauffman Index. Its privileged proximity to bothNewYork and Silicon Valley will allow this emerging ecosystem to consolidate its position as an entrepreneurial hub with the arrival of accelerators and VC funds.Rather than trying to be the next Silicon Valley,Miamiis following the lead of emergingtechhubs like Austin and Boulder, and isfocusing on its strengths.Miamiandtechhave been having an on-again, off-again relationship since the 1990s, when it hosted some of the top media and financial firms from South America. One of the most iconic companies of that era was Patagon.com, aMiamitransplant from Argentina that sold 85 percent to Santander for $585 million. It also served as a springboard to some of the pioneers in theMiamitechscenetoday, such as Juan Pablo Cappello, Constancio Larguia, Silvina Moschini and Peter Kellner, co-founder of Endeavor.A lot has changed since those days. AnewMiamitechscenecame about seven years ago when some of todays most relevant players started forming and getting together, asThe MiamiHeralds Nancy Dhalberg put it.Florida International University hosted its first Americas Venture Capital Conference (2010), Susan Amat co-founded The Launch Pad at University ofMiami(2008) and soon after she started Venture Hive,Miamis most iconic incubator.But is was in 2012 when, inspired by Dave McClures Geeks on a Plane stop in the city,The John S. and James L. Knight Foundation decidedMiamihad a great shot at becoming a startupcapital. Since then,the foundationstarted accelerating and funding different local initiatives, bringing newplayers to thesceneand becoming instrumental in Endeavor, Venture for America, LaunchCode, Emerge, IME, The Idea Center, The LAB and 500 Startups, among others, landing in the city.The most recent grantee is PowerMoves, an initiative to raise the number of venture-backed founders of color and minorities. This particular organization well-represents the foundations spirit. In the words of Matt Haggman, program director at the Knight Foundation,Diversity is our differentiator; unlock talent and amplifycapital.Matt has become the citys superman, getting involved in most activities within the current communities; he could easily run for mayor any day. Through his work, the foundation has committedmore than$20 million in fundingacross 165 entrepreneurship initiatives in theMiamiarea during the last three years.Just as FIUs VC conference stopped, Manny Medina started cooking his annual eMerge Americas conference, where folks such as Jim McKelvey, co-founder of Square, have inspired thousands of people. It was around that time whenMiamis reputation as thecapitalof South America got back into play as a differentiator and people started to believe a startup culture could be created by developing the community.Entrepreneurs Demian Bellumio and Ola Ahlvarsson have also found a way to connecttechwith art, another one ofMiamitraits. For three years now they have been producing SIME the European conference  in the city around Art Basel Week, merging art, technology and media.The opportunity has not only become obvious for entrepreneurs, but is also increasingly notorious for big companies that still makeMiamitheirLatAmheadquarters. Several companies are landing every week asMiamiregains the title as a regional hub, and also as one of the most important platforms to serve the growing Hispanic power in theU.S.Companies such as Google, Twitter, Facebook, Uber, Lyft and Vice have moved toMiami,along withnewinvestors hungry for this opportunity. Miamiis the perfect place to start or grow your business, specially ifyouare interested in an international venture, said Laura Gonzlez-Estfani, Director of Partnerships & MobileLatAmfor Facebook based inMiami.Gonzlez-Estfani recognizesMiamias a hub for the Americas and Europe because thetechcommunity is hungry for makingnewthings happen. There is talent, there is support from the institutions and private initiatives that are focused on boosting innovation, and there is an incremental interest from VCs and business angels for innovative projects.There are currently139 startups and companies on the Inc. 5000 list that are based in the Miami metro area,doing everything from media to tourism to health tech. Another great incentive for firms coming to the city has to do withMiamis tax advantages where there are no local or state income taxes, and Floridas corporate tax is 5.5 percent, one of the nations lowest.Jose Rasco, one of Building.co founders at the opening of the space. (Source: Building.co)As made famous by Steve Jobs, the dots can usually be connected looking backwards, andMiamiis no exception. The last few years have kept the local ecosystem busy with the starting of many initiatives.Angel investors got organized and created groups educating an increasing the number of local investors intech, co-working spaces popped up in every district  such as the recently opened Building.co by thesuccesful .CO crew and coding schools started taking over the city.Universities are now teaching entrepreneurship, VC funds are coming from outside the city and soon well see accelerators arriveasMiamis number of startups soars  up 46 percent  accounting for 1,600 companies (according to the Kauffman Foundation).AGPMiami, the largest local angel group, is proof of how rapid change is happening in the city; it has quadrupled the number of its members, up to 80 investors, in the pasttwo years. The group has invested in 14 firms, for a total of $2.8 million, and is actively looking to increase that number with both companies fromMiamiand those attracted to the city.Miamidoes not have acapitalproblem: We need family offices to trustnewfunds to leverage the power ofMiamias a gateway. That is a tremendous opportunity, said Nicolas Berardi, AGP Miamis managing director.One of the newcomers is European accelerator Startupbootcamp. Looking to benefit fromMiamis top positioning as a healthcare and talent hub will bring 10 companies a year toMiamifor the next three years, and support them with its six-month acceleration program.Christian Seale, StartupbootcampMiamifounder and managing director, believesMiamican become a global center for healthcare innovation. Miamiis the second largest healthcare hub in theU.S., with 8 hospitals, over 33,000 beds, three globally recognized research universities and a legacy of successful healthcare companies, said Seale.Many of these dots  not to say all have a strong debt to the Knight Foundations efforts. But bigger questions now arise on how to make this a sustainable ecosystem. Knight is still very much needed, but hopefully current players will get together in a joint effort to connect the dots and build a stronger and bigger community.As the city consolidates its place as one of the hottest entrepreneurial spots in the country, Miami has become a strategic market for one of the most valuable startups in the world, Magic Leap, and others, such as CareCloud, Open English and more. Altogether, theseMiamiroyals have so far raised more than $763 million in venturecapital, attracting talent and gaining attention from international investors.In less than two years, LaunchCode, the non-profit organization from St. Louis, Missouri that received $1.2 million funding from Knight in 2014 for its first expansion city, has teamed up with more than 120 companies to hirethrough The Idea Center techapprentices who dont necessarily have a traditional degree.As for Magic Leap, the virtual reality startup that raised $542 million in venturecapital from Google and Qualcomm, among othertechgiants,has chosen to relocate itsheadquarters to the Design Center of The Americas (DCOTA) in Dania Beach, Florida.Magic Leapsmoveto DCOTA is an investment in the future, ensuring that we have the very best creative environment and resources to support our rapidly growing team, said Russell Burke, Chief Financial Officer at Magic Leap, in a press release. Its also a pretty big statement about where we think we will be in the months and years ahead.Another example ofMiamis thriving startup ecosystem is Andres Moreno and Wilmer Sarmientos Open English. The company raised $120.25 million in venturecapital, and took advantage ofMiamis strategic position to launch an online English-learning business that serves more than 400,000 students in Latin America and the Spanish-speaking community within theU.S.WhileMiamis royals provide proof of success and business opportunities for startups and investors in South Florida, venturecapitalremains a weak link in the ecosystem. In 2014, the Miamimetro area attracted $656.83 millionof the $867.6 million in 36 venturecapital deals that took place in Florida.These figures pale in comparison toventurecapital investments drawn by the states of California, with $26,840.6 million (San Francisco accounted for $10,948 million) orNewYork, with $4,510.9 million, with 1,631 and 422 deals, respectively (according to data from CB Insights).Yes, it is still early, and theres more to come. A lot of it is going to come from attracting talent from outsideMiami, and, honestly, it doesnt seem to be a hard task.Miamiis a great launching pad ifyouare interested in selling toLatAmor tapping into theU.S.market, with a privileged positioning to caterto U.S.Hispanics. The quality of life is great, its strategically close to Europe,LatAm, New York and San Francisco, the infrastructure is starting to be in place and the ecosystem is growing fast.Institutionalventure capital funds have yet to look atMiamiwith better eyes  but honestly, who would have expected for them to arrive before the opportunities?This is already changing. 500 Startups has done a program inMiami, investing up to $250,000 in eight companies, and Scout Ventures established an office inMiamiand madetwo investments. Prominent angel investorsPatrick McKenna and Mark Kingdon have moved to the area, and local funds are starting to emerge, such as Z9 actively looking for companies.The landing of Startupbootcamps accelerator is also encouraging, and will certainly pave the way for more accelerators to come.Whoever has tried surfing at any point in their lives know something very well: There is, indeed, a right time to catch a good wave. It is certainly not at its peak; rather, it takes a bit of paddling and vision to catch the best waves and enjoy the ride.