Michael Goguen, the longtime venture capitalist who was asked to leave Sequoia Capitalfollowing a stunning breach of contract complaint, has just filed a counter complaintin San Mateo County Court that proposes the accusations against him are a myth.In reaction to claims that Goguen sexually and emotionally abused a woman named Amber Laurel Baptiste for more than a decade, and then failed to follow through on an agreement to pay her $40 million to keep her claims confidential, Goguen is now countersuing Baptiste for extortion.Hes not holding any punches. In his countersuit, Goguens legal teampaints a picture of a woman in love with him, and features a long list of text and email messages from Baptisteto underscore that depiction.Among them:The love that I hold in my heart for you was instant. It is a perfect love. Andto me it is the perfect way to love someone. It is forever and unconditional;I love our visits. I feel so blessed to have met you and have been able tomaintain a special relationship with you. I can only hope that it continues;I know it feels really good when we are together and to me it feels so perfectand I never want to let go of you; andI miss you so Much [sic]. My Body Misses you so Much. I love you so Much.The counter-complaint also features pictures that Baptiste, born in 1980, had allegedly sent to Goguen of herself dressed in lacy lingerie.Goguen had joined Sequoia Capital in 1996, five years after getting his masters degree in electrical engineering from Stanford. (The now-52-year-oldstudied electrical engineering as an undergrad at Cornell.)In her complaint, Baptistes legal firm had written that Baptiste wasabused by Goguen sexually, physically and emotionally for over 13 years and across three of his former marriages, beginning soon after she was brought to the U.S. as a victim of human trafficking.Her complaint provides excruciatingly detailed accusations of these alleged abuses, including countless hours of forced sodomy, verbal abuse, and other demeaning rituals. In a particularly disturbing characterization, Baptistes complaint states thatGoguen severely injured her during sex,then left her to seek emergency medical aid alone in a foreign country, nearly hemorrhaging to death.But in Goguens counter-complaint, it says that, Far from being forcibly sodomized and left bleeding alone on the floor of a hotel room . . .nearly hemorrhaging to death, the supposed [injury]was so minor that Mr. Goguen was unawareof it until Ms. Baptiste emailed him after the fact gushing about how wonderful the night was andnoting that she was scheduled to have a small surgery that was not a big deal.'[Baptiste] wrote of that night:I would never erase that night for anything. It was beautiful each and everymoment; The last night together was really incredible for me. I could feel so manythings moving between us that I have not felt before. Hopefully I will feel youagain soon.'Goguens counter-complaint goes on toassert that once scorned, Baptistes tone changed dramatically.She allegedly began tomake malicious allegations that frightenedMr. Goguennot only for what they would do to his personal and professional reputation, butalso the devastation such allegations would wreak on his family. When faced with the false andlibelous claims she has now asserted in this lawsuit, Mr. Goguen wanted Ms. Baptiste to leave himand his family alone, and felt that he had no choice but to pay her to accomplish this.Indeed, itsays Goguen acquiesced to the $40 million that [Baptiste] was arbitrarily demanding  on a variety of conditions, including thatshe stay away from Mr. Goguenand stop her harassment.Yet according to his counter-complaint, afterGoguen made the first of the four payments,for $10million, Ms. Baptiste resumed her campaign of harassment, sending thousands of text messagesafter signing the document, including ones that disparaged Mr. Goguen and his family andthreatened to send him to jail unless he accelerated the payment schedule.Baptistes complaintincludes a copy of the agreement. It states that:For a period of time, Amber and Michael were involved in a personal relationship. Amber had prepared and contemplated filing a lawsuit against Michael seeking monetary damages for personal injury and other claims arising from their prior relationship. Michael desires that all details relating to their relationship remain confidential, and Amber is willing to agree thereto.It also states: Michael specifically bargained for the confidentiality provisions in this agreement, and without them he would not have agreed to pay any amount of consideration to Amber.The contract thenoutlines a payment schedule for four payouts totaling $40 million that was to be fully transferred to Baptiste by lastDecember.Baptiste, who is characterized in Goguens cross-complaint as a Canadian nativewho in 2002 enteredinto a sham marriage to obtain her U.S. citizenship and now lives in L.A.,is seeking the enforcement of that settlement agreement, along with attorneys fees and other compensatory damages.Goguen is meanwhile seeking compensation for alldamages and losses caused by Ms. Baptistes extortion, including but not limited to return of the$10 million she extorted from him.Goguen was asked to leave Sequoia last week. Reached Friday about Baptistes complaint,a Sequoia spokesman wrote us, We first learned of these claims [Thursday]. We understand that these allegations of serious improprieties are unproven and unrelated to Sequoia. Nevertheless, we decided that Mikes departure was the appropriate course of action.In Whitefish, Montana, where Goguen has a home, he has been ahero to manylocals owing to his philanthropic efforts,says one source who vacations there. Among his local contributions: a trail system calledThe Whitefish Trail and two state-of-the-art helicopters furnished on behalf on the localsearch and rescue program.According to arecent report by a local outlet called the Flathead Beacon, Goguen has invested untold millions more into an assortment of local causes and community investments, as well as business ventures, including a local bar and a Montana company that produces rifles and barrels for the U.S. military. The article says that in2014, Goguen furtherdonated $2 million over five years to the states Internet Crimes Against Children task force in an effort to protect kids from online predators.I dont know what more can be said, the chairman of a local non-profit told The Missoulian in 2012 of Goguen.Hes a great and gracious guy.Im impressed that a gentleman whos been so successful in his professional career would find it in his heart to do this for the community. Hes a very modest and quiet man. Hes humble and soft-spoken.The full counter-complaint can be found here.