When Microsoft announced its Windows 10 strategy last year, the thinking was that the unified platform would drive Windows Mobile and finally bring the Windows phone out of the doldrums where its been virtually forever.The idea was you could develop once for Windows 10 desktop and easily share that code on any device, making it impossibly attractive for developers, which would finally driveWindows Mobile popularity in a beautiful virtuous development cycle.Unfortunately, it hasnt worked out that way,and Microsoft finds itself in an unusual position, developing software for iOS and Android because it simply doesnt have a viable Windows mobile ecosystem.According to comScores latest market share numbers, Microsoft had 2.9 percent market share in the U.S. for the fourth quarter last year. That was unchanged since September, in case you were wondering. In its fourth quarter earnings report in January, Microsoftreported a smartphone platform deeply in decline.That would cover the period where the Windows 10 mobile development magic was supposed to be happening. As you can plainly see, the plan doesnt seem to have worked as drawn up.Windows 10 is out. It appears to be getting great adoption on270 million devices, but it doesnt seem to have trickled down to Windows smartphones much at all.Heres how Satya Nadella outlined how he hoped his mobile strategywould play outin an interview with Mary Jo Foley of ZDNet last year:[T]he free upgrade for Windows 10 is meant to improve our phone position. That is the reason why I made that decision. If somebody wants to know whether Im committed to Windows Phone, they should think about what I just did with the free upgrade to Windows, rather than  hey, I[m] making four more phone models of value smart phones.In an interview with Matt Rosoff from Business Insider this week, Rosoff pointed out the lack of discussion of Windows Mobile at last weeks Build developer conference.Nadellas position was more nuanced this time:First of all, I dont think of Windows for mobile differently than Windows for HoloLens or Windows for Xbox now. We have only one Windows. We dont have multiple Windows. They run across multiple form factors, but its one developer platform, one store, one tool chain for developers. And you adapt it for different screen sizes and different input and output.TechCrunchs Haje Jans Kamps alsonoticed that the Windows phone was conspicuously absent from the Build conference keynote discussions. At one point while introducing Xamarin, the presenter put it like this:We dont care if its Android or iOS, we have you covered, the presenter said, and continued onto the rest of his presentation. Spot any platforms missing from that two-bulletpoint-list, Kamps wondered with his tongue firmly planted in his cheek.The question remains; can Microsoft succeed without a strong Windows mobile position? From the looks of things,they dont seem to have much choice. Nadella appearsto be staking his position in the cloud, which is a perfectly reasonable way to play it, while opening up his companys tools to iOS and Android in the absence of any meaningful Windows phone adoption.When you look at the beauty of the mobile-cloud connection, its understandable Microsoft would want to be there with Windows, but perhaps Nadella is beginning to understand that Windows is not necessarily the future of the company  Azure and Office 365 are  and that could explain why the company stayed firmly focused on these two areasat Build.When you combine that with the idea of bots created by Microsoft,including Cortana (Microsofts talking virtual assistant),that can run inMicrosofts tools or external platforms like Slack and LINE, you start to see a vision where Microsoft thriveseven without an in-house mobile platform.As the world moves swiftly to that mobile-cloud intersection, perhaps the underlying OS becomes less important. If thats the case if Microsoft can have a piece of the underlying cloud-mobile plumbing and have apps and bots created in itsecosystem,run anywhere on any device  it rendersthe Windows phone gap irrelevant.For Microsoft with its weak mobile position, it had better hope thats the case.