Microsoft had a heck of week last week, didnt it? It actually felt like it got its groove back with HoloLens, its holographic virtual reality glasses, which I have to say looked way cool. It also got our attention with theWindows 10 mobile strategy, and it showed off the desktop version of Cortana, something Siri cant do.In spite of its good, dare I say, great week, I have to wonder if Microsoft can make any headwayin mobile. As of now, its tablet and phone marketshare numbers are simply abysmal. Microsoftis so far back in the marketshare pack, its going to take a huge leap to move the needle enough to matter.Thats not to say that the company doesnt have a mobile strategy. Satya Nadella has gotten well-deserved credit for refocusing the company, and creating a much more positive image. A united screen across mobile and desktop with Windows 10 couldbe attractive to consumers and developers alike, both of whichhave yet to warm to Windows mobile. But will it be enough to lift Microsoft from its current marketshare doldrums?Microsoft bought Nokia last year in an effort to take control of the Windows mobile platform, and is finally creating a single-platform view across mobile and desktop.Thats great, as far as it goes, but people still arent buying Windows phones or even enough Surface tablets and unless thatturns around, it is going to have a very difficult go of it.The companyis betting that Windows 10 is going to be its mobile salvation and finally drive people to buy these devices, but weve heard that before and it hasnt happened.In fact, the companys global marketshare for mobile devices is falling.Consider looking at Kantar WordPanel mobile marketshare statistics. Its a great resource, but it wont make Microsoft or Windows fans happy. As of November, Windows phone marketshare in the US was sitting at a measly 3 percent. Thats after years of pushing the platform, and getting great product placement in moviesmovies and TV shows. Whats more, the number is actually down from 5 percent at the beginning of 2014.I can hear fans of the platform sputtering: But what about Europe? What about it? Consider these November Kantar numbers:The trend is down all around and it doesnt bode well for the companys mobile initiatives. I know Microsoft will argue that once Windows 10 hits the streets and people see how well it integrates across mobile and desktop, this is all going to change, but its hard to see these numbers turning around enough to make a significant difference. You could in fact, argue that at this point, the market has hardened and Microsoft is going to have a tough time pushing through iOS/Android supremacy.In case youre wondering in todays quarterly earnings report, Microsoft reported selling 10.5M Lumias. Thats up from 9.3M last quarter, and while up is better than down, itsan incremental increase at best.Putting Windows Phone aside, were left with the Surface Pro 3, a tablet-laptop hybrid that Microsoft loves to point to as a big win, and its done well, no doubt. By most reports, it can and should feel good about it. Yet in spite of impressive 67 percent growth in 2014, the company marketshare remains miniscule.The Surface generated a healthy $1.1B in revenue in todays report, up from $908M the previous quarter, but it still has miles to go before it catches iPad in second place, never mind Android in first.Thats why Microsofts Windows 10 show was so important to the company. Itgave them another opportunity to get sustained attention and it didnt waste it. In fact, Microsoft actually wowed us a little bit, but dont be fooled by a few minutes of HoloLens. As cool as it was, its never going to generate the kind of lift iPhone gives Apple or Android has given Google and by extension Samsung.Dont get me wrong, I was dazzled by HoloLens too. I get it, but I also understand that to truly compete in the next decade its going to take more than a holographic face computer.Microsoft appears to have done what it needed to do, perhaps something it should have done long ago. It created a single view from phone to tablet to desktop. Unifying the operating system was an important step, but its going to take some monstrous gains in mobile marketshare, especially for phones, for it to matter.The reality is if it cant attain significant marketshare, it cant attract developers. Its really not going to matter how easy it is to develop acrossdesktop and mobile if the developer class isnt paying attention. Its also important to remember that the Windows 10 story is going to appeal to companies more than consumers, and the phone choice today for the most part is in the hands of consumers. Most companies arent buying employees phones anymore, and most consumers arent paying attention to Windows phones.That means it would take a consumer sea change to make significant gains, and that doesnt seem likely in its current market state, no matter how well integrated Windows 10 is across devices.