Microsoft today announced that going forward, it will not turn on the Do Not Track feature in the upcoming versions of Internet Explorer and Spartan by default.The Do Not Track setting in many popular browsers tells websites and their advertisers that you want to opt out of third-party tracking for advertising purposes. All of the major browser vendors, including Google, Mozilla, Opera, Apple and Microsoft, support this feature, but whether advertisers honor the users request  and its no more than a request sent by the browser  is up to them. And most probably dont.Microsoft started enabling Do Not Track as the default setting with the launch of Internet Explorer 10. Unsurprisingly, this created a bit of a controversy. Previous to Microsofts decision, advertisers had agreed to honor Do Not Track, as long as it wasnt the default setting. They argued that the decision not to be tracked should be made by the user and not the browser vendor. Microsoft stuck to its guns saying users could always opt out during the setup process, and Do Not Track remained the default  until now (and the number of advertisers that honored it remained low).Chrome and Firefox leave Do Not Track off by default.Today, the company is reversing its stand. Microsoft Chief Privacy Officer Brendon Lynch argues that its doing so in order to comply with the latest draft of the official W3C standard for Do Not Track. This new draft explicitly notes that the signal sent MUST reflect the users preference, not the choice of some vendor, institution, site or network-imposed mechanism outside the users control; this applies equally to both the general preference and exceptions.Put simply, we are updating our approach to DNT to eliminate any misunderstanding about whether our chosen implementation will comply with the W3C standard, Lynch writes today. Without this change, websites that receive a DNT signal from the new browsers could argue that it doesnt reflect the users preference, and therefore, choose not to honor it.Given the voluntary nature ofDo Not Track, it probably doesnt matter all that much whether you turn it on or off anyway. If you want to make sure you arent tracked, using tools like Disconnect and add-ons like Ghostery, uBlock and the EFFs Privacy Badger is more effective anyway  at least on the desktop.