Microsoft today unveiledyet another application aimed at iOS users, with the launchof a news application thatgreatly resembles Apples own News application that comes built intoiOS 9. Called News Pro, Microsoftsapp aims to offerreaders a personalized experience by connecting them to articles that match their current interests, while also uncovering other sites and stories they may like.The biggest two differentiators betweenMicrosofts news reading app and Apple News is that Microsofts version is powered by Bing News, and it personalizes its interface by way of social networks. Users can sign in with either LinkedIn or Facebookin order to have the home feed update with storiesthat match their interests.For example, after signing into the web version of News Pro, the keyword TechCrunch appeared under my interests. Oddly, though, the app didnt immediatelyshow me any stories from the TechCrunch website, which makes me think perhaps the app is a little undercooked for the time being.On mobile, however, the app seemed to do a slightly better job. After authenticating with LinkedIn, it picked up anotherinterest (internet) and thenbegan to show me both technology news and TechCrunch stories.A separate tab on the mobile app lets you also customize which topics and industries you want to follow, as well as which organizations and products you want to track. Butthis tab is divided into two sections, Browse and the oddly named Pilot  the latter which appears to offer the ability to toggle off or on thesame topic choices as on Browse, but here they arelaid out in a grid format using small thumbnail images.Its not clear why there are two different sections focused on customizing the apps content.Users can like and comment on stories in the app, which also sets it apart from Apple News. (Apples app only allows for liking by clicking on hearts.)However, one feature Microsofts news app offersthats really handy is its Speedy Mode option. This presents a stripped down, quick-to-load version of the news article in question. If youre at all familiar with the popular app SmartNews on iOS, the feature will look strikingly similar.Maybe toosimilar, in fact  it even presents the Speedy Mode option with a nearly identical green arrow you tap on to change modes. Yikes!Top: News Pro; Below: SmartNewsUnfortunately for Microsoft, nothing about this new app comes across as truly unique, and in some cases, it looks like its trying to directly clone its competitors. That me too feel makes it less compelling than others in the space, which is disappointing. There are so many opportunities to deliver re-imagined and compelling takes on mobile news reading today, but Microsofts News Pro is simply rehashing what others have already done.The app is the latest project from Microsofts internal incubator, Microsoft Garage, which is home to a variety of oddballprojects ranging from Android launchersto themost annoying alarm clock ever. In other words, its not something Microsoft is backing as heavily as it is Office, Outlook for mobile, or even that new Microsoft Selfie app thats making the rounds. Instead, Garage projects are more like spaghetti thrown at the wall to see what sticks.News Pro is a free download on iTunes.(h/t, image credits:microsoft-news.com)