There are a number of ways to customize an Android smartphone, but one of the more unexpected tools to emerge earlier this year was Arrow, an Android launcher application designed by Microsoft. This summer, an unfinished version of the launcher was discovered by way of a Google+ group for beta testers. But,today,the app has gone live on the Google Play store for all to try.While it may seem surprising to see Microsoft building a tool that lets you customize the way you use your Android smartphone, its reflective of the companys new strategy to embrace cross-platform development instead of trying to lock everyone into Microsofts own software and services. You can see this with the release of its flagship Office application for competing platforms like iOS and Android, for example, as well as with its virtual assistant app Cortana.With Arrow, however, the idea is to offer a different interface for Android that makes it easier and quicker to access your most frequently used apps, as well as message friends, take notes, or access your favorite apps and settings.The launcher has a bit of an iOS 9 feel, at times, though without being a direct clone of the iOS interface.It somewhat mimics Apples recent Spotlight search update which now offers suggested apps and contacts when you swipe right on the iOS homescreen. While Apples Siri Suggestions are based on more than recency  iOS also considers how you use your phone or what apps you launch at different times of day Arrows Recent screen offers a similar ability to access apps, files, photos, or contacts you need quickly. That is, things you want to get tohaving to swipe through screens or dig around in apps.In addition, Arroworganizes your applications based on your usage, which means that those you launch the most will appear at the top of the list.Anotherfeaturelets you quickly find people, then message, email, or call them with a swipe, while another lets youcreate notes and reminders.Similar to some other Android launchers, you can use Arrow to re-arrange pages, set pages as your homescreen, organize and use widgets, theme your icons, and more. The only notable Microsoft integration (for now, at least) is the addition of wallpapers from Bing.While some of Arrows interface is reminiscent of iOS, the larger strategy here could be more similar to Yahoos Aviate  an Android launcher Yahoo bought to get it a position in the mobile ecosystem where it doesnt have its own platform, only software applications. Microsoft is in a similar boat. Though it does have Windows Phone, that OSand related devices only represents a tiny percentage of the overall smartphone market. Thats why Microsoft has embraced cross-platform development, and why its experimenting with customizations like this with Arrow.If Arrow established traction, Microsoft could take advantage of the app to push or recommend its own apps and services like Office, OneDrive, Outlook, Bing and more to end users.To be clear, Arrow is a Microsoft Garage project for the time being. Thats the internal R&D group that rolls out experiments to see whichmay have staying power or be worthy of further development. Its not even the first Android app to emerge from this idea tank  previous Garage efforts have included an Android lock screen called Next and an Android Wear search assistant Torque, for example.Arrow, in fact, was built by the same team behind Next and is now available in English and Chinese. The app is a free download from Google Play.