Microsoft has a little problem and its time we all admitted it. We have to gather the family in the living room, sit down Microsoft in the comfy chair and have a little heart to heart. Everybody can seeit, except Microsoft  and it could be time for an intervention.Its the keyboard thing, Microsoft. Enough already. Design your software to take advantage of a touch screen. Let the keyboard go, dude.Steve Jobs once said, it was a mistake to think of the tablet as simply a keyboardless laptop. What I think he meant by that is that you need to design software to take advantage of the fact it has a touch screen, to rethink the entire workflow, not simply move the same software to the tablet. Think. Be creative.Apparently, Microsoft missed that  or deliberately chose to ignore it.The key feature of the Surface tablet? It has a keyboard. Look at the Surface commercialwith everyone snapping their keyboards to their Surface tablets. It was all about having a keyboard. If we need a keyboard, we have a tool for that. Its called a laptop. When we use atablet, we shouldnt be typing, we should be touching, at least as much as possible.Ah, but this morning at Mobile World Congress, Microsoft announced a new version of Office 365. I gotta be honest. It looked like it was trying to take full-blown Office and squeeze it into a 5 or 6 inch screen. Sure, they tuned it a bit to make it mobile friendly, but it was still Office in all its glory in a smaller footprint.So what did Microsoft do? You got it. Itdeveloped a keyboard.Its a small bluetooth varietyengineered by the Microsoft hardware group. It folds up into a fairly small footprint to fit neatly in brief case or purse, but its another part of their total keyboard obsession. Instead of making Office fit the phone touch screen, it invented a keyboard to make it work better on a phone.Next it will probably build a small wireless mouse to complete its whole visionof mobile device asa PC in a small package.Heres the thing, Microsoft can create elegant software for mobile devices, at least when it buys another company to help out. If you download Outlook for iOS or Android, youll find a beautiful mobile app that works with other mail systems besides the Microsoft variety. It links to your calendar and it even tunes the times in your calendar when you change time zones automatically, something Google has trouble with. Googles solution isa second time zone kluge to at least make sure you dont have to do the math do make it to your appointments on time. (Lets see, Im six hours ahead)So its time to have that little intervention with Microsoft, sit it down and let it know that you know. Its not fooling anyone. Youve lived with its keyboard obsession for years  and its time to let it go.The PC had its day, but you cant live in the past forever, not even by squeezing it into an ever smaller package.