Microsoft Outlook is now a fully featured Apple Watch app. An updated versionof the iOS application released today added the new smartwatch functionality, which includes the ability to quickly glance at your inbox from the Apple Watch face, access pre-written replies, emoji and voice dictation, get custom notifications, schedule items for later, and more.The iOS and Android versions of Outlook were first introduced in January, following Microsofts acquisition of the cleverly designed mobile app Acompli  an app whose focus was on reinventing email for the mobile age. The Outlook apps themselves were very much like Acomplis original apps, making them seemmore like a rebrand of that service rather than something Microsoft built itself. The new Apple Watch app has the same feel.While of course, the Apple Watch has its own mail client built in, the Outlook app has become a preferred email appfor many users because of its enhanced feature set involving support for attachments from cloud services, quick filters, calendar integrations for easy meeting scheduling, a focused inbox (for your most important mail), a variety of Mailbox-like swipe gestures for triage, custom notifications, and more.Plus, the app works with Gmail, iCloud and Yahoo Mail, in addition to Outlook.com, Office 365 and Microsoft Exchange.With the Apple Watch release, the app is more than competitive with the Apples default mail client, which also offers you the ability to receive only important email notifications(VIP messages), and the ability to view your inbox, flag and delete messages. But Outlooks version is veryfeature-rich, with support for responding to emails from the Watch, whileApples Watch User Guide suggests that email is better handled on your iPhone. Outlook, however, lets you pick from quick replies, use emoji or dictateyour response, similar to Apples Messages app.Outlooksnotifications also show you more of the emails text than those from Apples client.At launch, Outlook for Apple Watch shows you your Focused Inbox, which is a better experience since this is your more mission-critical email. You can visit an Other tab to the see the rest, however. Beneath that,the app also offers you a calendar view.You can also manage your inbox from Outlook on Apple Watch, including deleting, flagging, archiving, marking read/unread, and scheduling items for later, which are accessible from within a message or Force Touch. You can configure custom notifications for important messages. And theres a Glance (an Apple Watch widget you access from the Watch Face by swiping up), which means you can more easily view your inbox without having to scroll around on the app screen. (Which frankly, I dont find myself doing a lot.) The Glance displays your emails and your next calendar appointment, which makes it a multi-functional widget.In other words, Microsofts email app for Apple Watch just topped Apples.You can grab Outlook for iOS, which includes the Watch app, here.In addition to the new app, Microsoft also launched wearables.office.com which highlights the companys productivity apps for Apple Watch and Android Wear, including also Wunderlist, Yammer, Microsoft Translator, OneDrive and OneNote.