Microsoft is further opening up Skype to businesses. On Thursday, the company launched its Skype for Business SDK  tools which allow iOS and Android developers to integrate Skypes messaging, audio and voice capabilities into their own mobile applications. The idea is to allow Skype to power the communications experience insideapplications, so developers can focus on building their products unique features.This is an area other messaging-focused startups also tackle to some extent,including former TechCrunch Disrupt winner Layerand, more recently, chat tools providerSendbird, for example. Microsofts solution, however, is aimed at larger enterprises.Skype for Business SDK customerscan continue to use their existing infrastructure, like Skype for Business Server orSkype for Business Online  depending on if the company has deployed Unified Communications on their own servers, or if theyre relying on Microsofts cloud. In addition,companies adopting the Skype for Business SDK can continue to use their existing native clients to reach their customers,However, during this SDK preview period, the focus for the integrations is on remote advisor functionality. That is, businesses whowant to interact with remote customers over their mobile phones and tablets in order to chat, call or video chat.You may remember an example of this functionality was demoed earlier this year at Microsofts Build 2016 conference, when the company showed offa telehealth app created byMDLIVE. In the app, doctors offeredpatients virtual care via video calling sessions. Theycan also share and review medical records, lab results, send messages, and more. Patients, meanwhile, can book, schedule then connect with doctors for real-time chats right in the application at their appointment time.Healthcare isnt the only scenario where a remote advisor makes sense, of course. The platform could also be used by financial advisors, customer service, and a variety of other enterprise applications.Microsoft says that if the company is licensed for Skype for Business Server or Skype for Business Online, then there are no additional costs for the use of the SDKs.The SDK is available for download here.