Microsoft today released a new tool that will make it easier for users of Evernotes note-taking service to make the transition to rival application OneNote, a part of the Microsoft Office suite. The OneNote Importer tool, as the software is called, aims to address the switching costs that can hold back users from making a move to a competing platform. Microsoft even goes for the hard sell here, reminding OneNotepotential customers that the appis free on all devices, while Evernote Premium is a $50 per year product.Of course, Microsoft didnt point out that Evernote has a free tier.But the company did jab at Evernotes cost,saying that if you want to shell out $50 per year for office productivity software, you could just pay a little more ($70/year) for Office 365 Personal, which includes not only OneNote, but alsoWord, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Publisher, and Access.Unfortunately, the new migration utility doesnt work on all platforms just yet. Microsoft says youll need a PC running Windows 7 or later in order to use the tool. However, once your Evernote notes are imported to OneNote, they will sync across to all your other devices  including Mac, iOS and Android. Youll also want to have Evernote for Windows installed on that PC to make the transition process speedier.However, the company added that a tool for Mac users is already in the works, and will be released in the coming months.OneNote and Evernote are similar products in terms of their note-taking functionality. Microsofts product offers users a free-form canvas where you can mix text, images, documents, handwriting, audio, video and more, the company says. Meanwhile,Evernote offers tools for collecting media and storing it alongside text and other content, too, though it tends to be used more for things like checklists, and saving snippets from the web. Evernotehas also has tried to transition more into the team collaboration space with features like work chat, and increased security for business users.This competitive move comes at a time when there are concerns about Evernotes future. The startup has seen a number of high-profile exits in recent months, including the loss of notable VPsin Decemberthat followed last years shifting of co-founder and CEOPhil Libin shifted to Executive Chairman. Evernote also in 2015restructured its staffingand killed off its Evernote Food, Skitch (except Skitch for Mac), Clearly and Pebble Watch apps. Just last month, it shut down its e-commerce efforts as well.With the company in transition, Microsofts timing is apt  it can potentially target users concerned with Evernotes stagnant state, and those worried about its longevity.