Even Microsoftsnew image recognition app has no idea what kind of dog I have. Oh well! If you dont own a mixed-breed mutt saved from the kill shelter, however, you might have fun with the companys latest Microsoft Garage project: Fetch!, a new iPhone app that looks at photos of dogs to identifyits breed. Or, in the case when it cant make an exact match, the app will show you a percentage of the closest match.Oh yes, in case youre wondering  you can use it with people, too.The app is the latest in a series of fun projects that are meant to highlight machine learnings potential. In this case, thats the ability to look at an image and make some sort of determination about its contents  basically, its teaching machines to make the sort of intuitive leaps that people naturally do.As Fetch proves, this process is actually harder than it looks. People can easily put together different pieces of information on the fly to make an educated guess about something like a dogs breed, but machines have to be taught using a combination of correct images, expert data about breeds, and machine intelligence.The app in particular uses amachine learning technique called deep neural networks.there is very advanced work underway at Microsoft in this area, which are able to take apart subtle differences, even when breeds look similar or through the many different colors within breeds, explains Mitch Goldberg, a development director at Microsoft Research inCambridge, U.K based team built the experience.Every time we add more, thats the beauty of the deep neural network in understanding new, unique breeds. This is a really complex problem.Fetch, in fact, is the latest in a series of releases from Microsoft that try to make understanding the complexities of machine learning more accessible to the mainstream user.For example,last year Microsoft launched a site that would guess peoples ages from their photos. The results, as with Fetch, were hit or miss. If the picture wasnt perfectly framed and lit, the service had trouble making accurate guesses. The company has also been working on machine learning tools that can identify emotions, andin honor of the facial hair fundraising effort Movember, Microsoft launchedMyMoustache, which uses similartechnology to recognize and rate facial hair. And it has a site that will tell you if two people are twins.But the dog breed appis also fun. When it works!The technology behind Fetch has actually been in development for years. In July 2014, Microsoft demonstrated how machines could tell the difference between people and dogs at the 15thannualMicrosoft Research Faculty Summit.The team later released the website What-Dog.net, but says the app is where the most progress is really apparent.According to Microsofts announcement,the iOS app was released just in time for theAmerican Kennel Clubs Meet & Compete and theWestminster Kennel Club Dog Show, and demonstrates a different time of machine learning capability.Instead of examining photos of humans, Fetch tries to figure out what sort of dog breed is represented in a photo.There was an interest in creating a framework that would allow you to take a domain  in our case, dogs  and recognize numerous classes, such as breeds. We were interested in enabling an app to allow you to make object recognition extraordinary, fun and surprising, says Goldberg.To use the app, you simply show it a picture of a dog and it returns the breed. If theres no dog in the photo, it saysNo dogs found! But it also might guess what the photo is of, instead. (e.g. This looks more likeflower?)Theres also a pretty hilarious hidden mode where you show the app a picture of a friend, and it will tell you what type of dog it thinks that person iswhich, you know, can be quite insightful.#Science  Microsofts Fetch! app can tell you what breed of dog you resemble from a pic https://t.co/41B8KHjt57pic.twitter.com/AQ4ioIeAUf Discover News (@Discover_News_) February 12, 2016The results Fetch presents can then be shared via social networks and email, so all your friends can commenton your doggie match. You can also save your favorites in an included scrapbook or browse the list of breeds included in the app which contain details like size, coat, disposition, and more.I think Im okay with being called a Maltese, but Im fairly certain my 49-pound mutt is not a Chihuahua, though.Machines, you still have a lot of work to do.