Like everyone else these days, Microsoft sure loves its bots. Now, thecompany has rolled out its own news-finding bot called Rowe, which lives inside the latest version of Microsofts Bing-powered personalized news reading app, News Pro. Rowe is an experiment with helping you keep up with the news that matches your current interests. You can ask the bot to show you news by typing in a topic, view todaysheadlines, ask for other personalized suggestions or read the stories the bot has surfaced for you already.Rowe, however, seems more like an assistive search engine, rather than a true AI-likebot, as its personalized suggestions are not as good as its ability to return articles on a given subject.And even then, itsresults are a bit limited. For example, if you type in a popular, but broad, subject like U.S. Elections, the bot returns just three top stories, one of which currently appears to be more of an op-ed/thought piece rather than hard news. Thats not a great experience.Below its recommended stories, buttons appear that let you pull up more news articleson the subject, like those focused on election predictions or polls, in this case.Meanwhile, if you type a news topic thatsa bit more specific, the selection of stories may improve. For instance, asking Rowe about Twitter 140  a reference to Twitters plans to distance itself from its strict 140-character count rule  the bot returns popular stories from well-known sites like Yahoo, CNET and PCMag.Rowe has one other weird and not entirely practical trick, too  if you upload a picture of yourself, it will surface news articleswhere the person in the story looks like you. Why? Uh, because it can? (Oh, and prepare to be either very flattered or very insulted by its results.)The bot  initially spotted by the blog MSPoweruser.comfollowing Microsofts announcement  is the latest developmentfrom Microsofts News Pro app, which first debuted this January. A sort of standard news-gathering app, News Pro is Microsofts own take on something like Apple News, or the third-party app Smart News, perhaps.The app offers users a customizedexperience by connecting to your Facebook and LinkedIn in order to better understand your interests.In practice, News Pro doesnt do a great job at personalization yet, Ive found. While it accurately suggests stories from areas like computer hardware and the Internet for me, it misses a number of possible suggestions that could be easily pulled from my ever-growing set of Facebook likes.Similarly, the bot feels rough around the edges, too. But this is not an official Microsoft product, we should point out  its an app from the companys internal R&D incubator, Microsoft Garage.Microsoft is hardly the only company experimenting with new ways to deliver the news via bots, however. Other efforts in the space include those running on Facebook Messengers bot platform, like bots from CNN, The WSJ, Business Insider or even yours truly; Telegrams news bots; or independent efforts like Quartzs app, and many more.The updated app also introduces other features, including groups for discussing the news with others, for example.Rowe is available in the updated News Pro app on iTunes here.