Microsoft dropped a new Windows 10 build yesterday, build 10051, addingsupport fora host of Windows Phone handsets previously unsupported by the operating system.Windows Phone users were understandably interested in the new code, as it represents Microsofts most complete vision to date of how Windows 10  the companys attempt at a universal platform  will update their handsets. (Sadly, TechCrunchs Lumia 929 remains unsupported, so if you spot a tech blogger crying in the corner, I just need a minute.)Microsofts Windows 10clbre Gabe Aul released a chart detailinghow many users made it to build 10051 on a per-minute basis, with data covering about an hour. The pace, as you can see below, works out to about one user per second making it to the new code:As with many beta releases, there were rollout issues with the new code. Those have since been quashed, and the update appears to be Full Steam.Now, to the numbers. 60 successful upgrades per minute is 3,600 per hour, or north of 86,000 per day. Of course, the pace of upgrades will slow over time, but those are sufficientrough run-rate calculations.Is 60 per minute quite a lot, or not very much? Microsoft has picked up a few million Windows 10 testers, but how many of that group are Windows Phone users isnt clear. And, the new numbers recorded above only includeWindows 10 testers who use Windows Phone andwho opted into afaster build release cycle. So, its a modest pool to pull from. Id call the numbers healthy, but not ecstatic.Microsoft continues to release Windows 10 builds even as Build, its developer conference, quickly approaches. I incorrectly presumed that the company would start to constrain releases to ensure that it had plenty of new material for the event. It seems instead that Microsoft wants to keep the kitchen open all the way toclosing time.A question for you, dear reader: If you did upgrade, are you going to stay on the new code, or revert back to Windows Phone and wait for Windows 10 to get another notch closer to production quality?