Following an earlier integration with Dropbox, Microsoft announced today its further opening up its Office software suite to work with other third-party cloud services, starting with an update to its Office iOS applications that will allowaccess to iCloud and Box. The support is being added by way of file picker integration, which takes advantage of theiOS softwares ability to open files stored in other locations.For end users of Microsoft Office, thechange means theyll now be about to open, edit and save documents stored in third-party services from within the Office apps, the company explains in a blog post announcing the news. While iOS is first to receive the update, Microsoft says similar functionality is being added to the universal Windows 10 applications as well as the Office for Android applications.The added supportfor third-party services is notable for Microsoft, which historicallyhad operated as more of a closed company thattried to keep its customers inside its own ecosystem. But thats been changing as of late  Microsoft has been embracing other platforms not only with thelaunch of Office for iOS late last year, and more recently,Outlook for iOS and Android, for example, but it has also recently passed 100 iOS and Android applicationsin total.In addition to the support forother cloud services in the updated Office apps, Microsoft also announced the debut of a new Cloud Storage Partner Program, which will see the company working more directly with third parties to integrate Office Online into their own applications. This will allow those companiesusers to then open, view and edit documents saved in theirservices using a web browser that accesses Microsoft Office online. The programs early partner list includes Box, Citrix and Salesforce, says Microsoft, but others can apply to join through a sign-up form here.Specifically, the integrations will be focused on allowing consumers to edit and view Word, Excel and PowerPoint files, and currently supports only a single editor at a time. However, Microsoft says its intention is to later expand the experience to allow for improvedsharing and collaboration features over time.Absent from the list of new partners announced today, however, is Google, whose own online office suite is more of adirect competitor to Office than potential partner, it seems.Still, the changes have earned Microsoft praise from Box CEO Aaron Levie, who posted to Twitter insupport of todays news, noting the new level of openness at Microsoft, and complimenting Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella for pushing thingsforward:Microsoft is driving a new level of openness in the enterprise. Props to @satyanadella and team for pushing this. http://t.co/b07W2AesT5 Aaron Levie (@levie) February 17, 2015Microsoft is truly becoming open. A huge win for customers and the industry. And a huge loss for Microsoft jokes. http://t.co/K8lRrNGih5 Aaron Levie (@levie) February 17, 2015