Today Microsoft reportedthe financial performance it recorded during the first quarter of its fiscal 2016. Microsoft generated $0.67in adjusted per-share profit off non-GAAP revenue of $21.66 billion in the three-month period.Analysts had expected the Redmond-based software shop to earn an adjusted $0.59 per share, on revenue of $21.03 billion. Microsoft also reported GAAP revenue of $2.04 billion. By either metric, Microsoft shrunk compared to its year-ago first fiscal quarter in which it brought in $23.2 billion in total top line.Update: I spoke with Microsoft about its non-GAAP revenue metric. In short, its a way for the company to demonstrate Windows revenue akin to how it did in the past, despite new accounting methods. Expect to see this as a recurring stat every quarter from here on out.Second Update: Microsoft laid off 1,000 workers or so, quietly. News is out, however. Appears that the cuts were not constrained to a single group or location. The cuts are less than 1 percent of the companys total staff. Still, its a lot of people.Up around a point in regular trading, Microsoft is up sharply inafter-hours trading following its earnings beat.This earnings report marks a change for the company, which now disseminates its financial data under a new internal structure. The company now has 3.5 main business segments (Via a Microsoft slide deck that can be found here.):Make sense? Lets see how each did:So, Microsofts growth divisions managed a mixed bag of expansion, while, as I think was expected, the Windows group took it in the shorts.The company announced that its commercial cloud business is now on an $8.2 billion annual run rate. Office 365 consumer picked up 3 million new subscribers. Surface brought in $672 million in top line, down from its year-ago score of $908 million. Microsoft recently introduced new Surface hardware.In the quarter, Microsoft recorded GAAP operating income of $5.8 billion, and non-GAAP operating income of $7.1 billion. The companys GAAP operating income fell 1 percent compared to the year-ago quarter.Microsoft net income on a GAAP basis totaled $4.54 billion, inching up to $5.44 when usingadjusted metrics. Compared to its year-ago quarter, Microsofts GAAP profit rose by 2 percent.The company stressed the impact that shifting currency markets had on its performance, continuing a trend that we have seen from a number of companies that have multinational operations. Heres the damage:Forex headwinds are to business, of course, as the weather is to your local economist.There is a lot to parse in the report, which is more technical than usual due to the inclusion of various non-GAAP metrics, difficult comparative alleys, and, of course, anew structure. As such, I presume that todays earnings call will be lively.That said, Microsoft managed to land its numbers, and see its share price dramatically rise. Things cant be too bad.