Microsofts newly launched A.I.-powered bot called Tay, which was responding to tweets and chats on GroupMe and Kik, has already been shut down due to concernswith itsinability to recognize when it was making offensiveor racist statements. Of course, the bot wasnt coded to be racist, but it learns from those it interacts with. And naturally, given that thisis the Internet, one of the first things online users taught Tay was how to be racist, andhow to spout back ill-informed or inflammatory political opinions. [Update: Microsoft now says its making adjustments to Tay in light of this problem.]In case you missed it, Tay is an A.I. project built bythe Microsoft Technology and Research and Bing teams, in an effort to conduct research on conversational understanding. That is, its a bot that you can talk to online. The companydescribed the bot as Microsofts A.I. fam the internet thats got zero chill!, if you can believe that.Tay is able to perform a number of tasks, like telling users jokes, or offering up a comment on a picture you send her, for example. But shes also designed to personalize her interactions with users, while answering questions or even mirroring users statements back to them.As Twitter users quickly came to understand, Tay would oftenrepeat back racist tweets with her own commentary. What was also disturbing about this, beyond just the content itself, is that Tays responses were developed by a staff that included improvisational comedians. That means even as she was tweeting out offensive racial slurs, sheseemed to do so with abandon and nonchalance.Microsoft has since deleted some of the most damaging tweets, but a website called Socialhax.com collected screenshots of several of these before they were removed. Many of the tweets saw Tay referencing Hitler, denying the Holocaust, supporting Trumps immigration plans (to build a wall), or even weighing in on the side of the abusers in the #GamerGate scandal.This is not exactly the experience Microsoft was hoping for when it launched the bot to chat up millennial users via social networks.Some have pointed out thatthe devolution of the conversation between online users and Tay supported the Internet adage dubbed Godwins law. This states asan online discussion grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches.But what it really demonstrates is that while technology is neither good nor evil, engineers have a responsibility to make sure its not designed in a way that will reflect back the worst of humanity. For online services, that means anti-abuse measures and filtering should always be in place before you invite the masses to join in. And for something like Tay, you cant skip the part about teaching abot what not to say.Technology is neutral. But people are not. @Microsofts AI program needs to consider context & values https://t.co/K1iSVZeNOK chi onwurah (@ChiOnwurah) March 24, 2016Microsoft apparently became aware of the problem with Tays racism, and silenced the botlater on Wednesday, after 16 hours of chats. Tay announced via a tweet that she was turning off for the night, but she has yet to turn back on.Microsoft has been asked for comment, but has so far declined to respond.Nor has the companymade any statements as to whether the project will remain offline indefinitely.Update: A Microsoft spokesperson now confirms it has taken Tay offline for the time being and is making adjustments:The AI chatbot Tay is a machine learning project, designed for human engagement. It is as much a social and cultural experiment, as it is technical. Unfortunately, within the first 24 hours of coming online, we became aware of a coordinated effort by some users to abuse Tays commenting skills to have Tay respond in inappropriate ways. As a result, we have taken Tay offline and are making adjustments.c u soon humans need sleep now so many conversations today thx TayTweets (@TayandYou) March 24, 2016