Europeans love little better than a nice cup of tea. Which means an awful lot of water is being boiled daily only a portion of which is actually necessary, given most peoplearent fastidious enough to boil only the quantity of liquid they actually need to fill their cup or teapot.Part of this wastage boils down to (inevitable) human laziness. But it can also be viewed as abyproduct ofdesign. The volumeof the kettle as a containerhas a suggestive effect, encouraging the userto fill it up before they hit the on switch.And even though mostkettles havea measuringscale to offer guidelines on how much water to boil based on how many cups you need, cup sizes vary and the minimum measureis still often more than is needed if youre just making the one cuppa.Europeandesigner duo, Nils Chudy and Jasmina Grase, decided a different kind of kettle was requiredto re-thinkthe process of heating liquids  onethatputsenergy efficiency at the fore.The elegant result is Miito: a prototype un-kettle that comprisesan induction heating plate base, where you place whatever vessel of liquid you wantto heat. And a metal heating rod thatyou standinside the cup or pot to heat the water:The Miitoworks with water but can also apparently heatother liquids, such as soup or baby food. Although one wonders how much collateral splattering of your kitchen surfaces might result from doing that in an open top vessel.(The kettledoes apparently automatically turn itself off once the liquid has reached boiling point. Which sounds like a minimumsafety requirement, givenboiling water can leap around a lot  andopen topped containers arent going to offer any barriertoscalding splashes. But if the device is shutting off strictly at the point of boiling thatsanother way to save energy.)Mitto isonly a prototype at his point, with the Berlin-based startup behind the design in the process of raising crowdfunds onKickstarter to get their reworked kettleto market next year, withan estimated shipping schedule of April 2016. The devicestarted life as a student project during their time at design school in the Netherlands.At the time of writing the teamhas more than doubled itsoriginal crowdfunding target of 150,000  pulling in pledges from close to3,000backers  still with almost three weeks left on the clock. So they are flush with more than enough funds (and tea lovers) to deliver a shipping product.Early backers wereoffered Miito starting at75 ($80). Its since stepped up to90 ($100). So its definitely a premium-priced (un)kettle. Albeit you should (in theory) be able to see some small electricity savings  provided you dont start heating extra cups of tea just to get involvedwithsuch acool design. Thatwould be ironic.