MeetMiiya: akids wearable thats being designed to nudge kids to be more active, while also offering security features for parents to help alert them if their child has wanderedtoo far away. Itsaimed at children aged from four- to 10-years-old, and is currently in development, as its French makers seek toraise $50,000 via the Indiegogo crowdfunding platform toget the device to market this year.Encouraging kids to share more about what they did thatday withtheir parents is the third gentle nudge being planned for Miiya. If it makes it tothe market the wearablewill include a feature where kids can choose to tag a particular location to send it to their parents  viewable via a timeline onthe Miiya companion smartphone app  to help themremember to tell mum or dadabout whatever cool thing they did in the park/school/their buddys house today.Point being thatthe childgets to choose when to tag and share something, rather than being perma-tracked wherever they go.That said, Miiyas makersplan is also to deliver a daily activity report to mum or dad, based on tracking how active their wearable-wearing offspring has been. Which does sound a tad Big Brotherish, from the kids point of view. And therein lies the rub.Kids wearables arent without controversy. Concerns focus on the potential intrusion into privacy via techno-enabled, heavy-handed parental surveillance.GPS tracking of dependents who dont have a say in the matter is a clear avenuefor concern  and one Miiyas makers are evidently trying to steer away from, although the device does include a GPS and does also include a Bluetooth-powered geo-fencing security feature that can alert parents when kids move too far away from them.But its makersarguethis feature islight-touch child safety rather than heavy-handed parental surveillance, since itis only evertracking the wearable relative to the parents smartphone  rather than constantly tracking the childs location.With [the] Dynamic Safety [feature], parents can leave a lot of freedom to their children. Its designed in a different way compared to existing GPS tracking systems, saybrothers Frederic and Nicolas Bruneau, the two co-founders of Miiya. In fact, we are not providing a solution to know if their children are at home or at school but we offer the ability to locate children relatively to them. With such a solution, finding a lost child in a crowded place (indoor and outdoor) is extremely simple.Just determine a safety zone on the smartphone app, you will be warned if your child goes too far away. Dont worry if you forget to change the limits. Dynamic Safety is able to adapt to changing conditions in any environment.Dynamic Safety is based on an exclusive Enerbans technology mixing Bluetooth Low-Energy and our knowledge of 9-axis tracker.The most visiblefeature of Miiya is its core gamified activity nudge tech, whichuses sensors in the wearableand an avatar displayed on the screen to illustrate the wearers cumulative daily activity level  and thus to encourage them to be active enough to turn what starts the day as asleepy avatar into a cloak-wearingsuperhero. The childis also able to gain in-app gold stars for activity achievements, shared withtheir parents via the app.Wearables continue to crop up in all sorts of permutations, giving a variety of forms toa hyped but still emergent space.How much mass market appetite there is for these devices remains in question.Is there a killer app for wearables?Fitness is the function being flogged hardest at presentbut there are only so many adultswho feel the need to attachaplastic band to their person to quantifyhow many steps they have taken today.A class of moreprowearables (and/or devices which clip to sports gear)isemerging to target specific sports or activities in the hopes ofgaining traction with particular interest groupsby promising to quantify aspecialist skill in granular detail  and then building businesses focused on serving the needs ofthose communities. But those devices are necessarily niche.Connected wearablesdesigned for kidsarearguably acategory with a lotmore mass market potential and appeal  if their functions and functionalityprove compelling enough for parents and kids alike. Its this sort of child friendlysweet spot that Miiyas makers are aiming for.Weve seen a few otherkids wearables already, including theTinitellwrist-phone and GPS tracker;LeapFrogs gamified fitness tracker; and the pure play focusedMoffs gesture-based smart toy.Miiya comes off as relatively sensitively designed vs the competition. But has quite a high price-tag for a kids category wearable. Early Indiegogo backers can pledge $75 to secure one Miiya, after which the price will step up to $99 apiece.The team alsostill needs to raise a bunch of money to get this wearableto market. At the time of writing theyve raised just over $15,000 of their $50,000 goal, although the campaign is a flexible funding one  which means any money pledged will go to Miiyas makers regardless of whether they hit their full target.How far along are they in development terms? The brotherstell TechCrunch theirhardware prototypes arefunctional at this point. Battery life is slated to lastfive to six days on average, depending on use of the Bluetooth and GPS tagging features.We are now finishing the integration of all electronics parts in the mechanical casing. The software and app are functional but we still have much to do with building up all the features we want to include in Miiya app, they note, adding:We are working with industrial partners to turn it into a shipping product.We are building out the tooling, and are making industrial tests. Next step is the certification process. In March, we will start the manufacturing process, and first deliveries are scheduled in May.