Add recreational vehiclesto the so-called sharing economy. Outdoorsy is a startup that provides an online marketplace for motor home and trailer owners to rent out their vehicles when theyre not using them.Its set to tap into a market ofyoung and upwardly mobile 20-somethings in search of new experiences.Renting amotor homeisnt anything new. Google RV rental and youll pull up Cruise America and a dozenof other outfits waiting to let you take their camper vans for a spin. But these are mostly corporate, with charmless vehicles generouslyplastered in their logos.Airbnb also offers RVs; many of them come with the character and charm Outdoorsy is aiming for.But Airbnb doesntspecialize in the motor home life, argues Outdoorsy co-founder Jeff Cavins.Airbnb is the perfect solution for apartments and homes and chalets and castles, but when you get into the world of recreational vehicles the users they use a different language, Cavins told TechCrunch. He used location as an example.Those renting from others in New York can give them the download on New York, but those renting RVs will want to know the difference between Yosemite versus Yellowstone, he said. Outdoorsy co-founder and the startups lead front-end developer, Ryan Quinn, lives the RV lifestyle out of a vintage 91 Ford he refers to as his vansion. He rents out his home on wheels for $100 a night when hes not in it himself.Quinn falls into that age group that Outdoorsy could be perfect for  millennials (those age 18-34). RVs are mostly thought of as something retired folks or vacationing families motor around in. There are entire residential parks scattered throughout the U.S. and Canada devoted to RVingsenior citizens  My parents stay in one every year when they go to Phoenix. There are cooking classes and fitness instructors and a sewing room. A sewing room! They tell me Im not allowed to live there because Im not 55 or older.However, millennials, recession-batteredand reluctant to own anything that seems too permanent, seek experiences over material possessions. Outdoorsy offers uniquecross-country vehicles just waiting for experiences to be had in them for a short amount of time.Summer RV travel is a very American past time (though Ive been told its similar to caravanning in Europe)and millennials are the fastest growing segment of traveler in this section of the world. Outdoorsy provides the adventure of the road, the great outdoors and a nomadic lifestyle that might sound quite romantic to this age group  without adding that dreaded permanence of ownership.The startup offersRV owners a way to make some cash on their campers with an economic model in the same vein as other peer-to-peer platforms. Owners list their vehicle on the site, with pictures, a description and the price of rental per night, just like homeowners do on Airbnb.Outdoorsy takes a 10percent cut from the renter and a 15 percent cut from the owner on each rental.Like Airbnb, Outdoorsy also provides a $1 million insurance policy in case a bad apple destroys your RV.According to RV enthusiast and Google Ventures partner Rick Klau  who took a deep dive into RVson his blog a little while back  it was $100 per day plus$.30-.40 per additional mile for a 1,500-mile family trip.Theres a huge opportunity for investment in a new type of RV market. About 11million Americans own an RV andmanufacturing has steadily increased since 2007.The rental marketwithin that industry is a $350 million annual business and continues to grow, according to figures from the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association.Weve heard that Outdoorsy hopes to capitalize on that and do some growing of its own. Rumor isthe startup is in the middle of seeking fundingfrom variousVC firms in Silicon Valley.Outdoorsy calculates that RV owners also stand to make up to$86,000 a year on each vehicle. Some enterprising individuals have already started creating a fleet of multiples on the platform and could potentially make even more.Money is a good motivator for any platform. But its clear that at the heart of this startup is a community with a passion for outdoor experiences.Over the last few years there has been a resurgence of people looking to reconnect with nature and detach from the constant connectedness of everyday life, said Jen Young, the third Outdoorsy co-founder. We arent just looking to create the next big thing in the sharing economy, we want to create a community of passionate outdoor enthusiasts who are looking to connect and share their experiences with others.Correction:This post has been updated to delete the claim that Tesla is working on an all-electric RV. Because itsnot.