Mobile shopping startup Wish  fresh off a $500 million round of funding  has made its first acquisition. The company has acquired Locket, a startup that makeslockscreen apps for Android handsets: aneponymousappthat serves tailored news to your lockscreen; and lockscreen messaging appScreenPop.Terms of the acquisitionwere not disclosed. From what we understand there could have been others who had approached Locket, including Facebook and Yahoo.(Yes, both of themhave already made acquisitions in the area of lockscreen apps, respectively Cover and Aviate. I guess you could say they were looking to doubledown on the space, our source says.)Locket had raised around $3.2 million. Investors included Great Oaks, Turner Broadcasting and Tyra Banks.Yunha Kim, right, one of Locketsco-founders, will be joining Wish as head of growth. There were seven people working at Locket, including the two other co-foundersKaushik Pendurthi and Paul Jang. Itsstill being decided who else on the team will be coming over.The fate of Locketsapps, however, is a bit more certain: Kim says that both Locket and ScreenPop will remain and get integrated into Wishs bigger business in two ways.First, starting next week, items sold on the Wish app and the other apps in its portfolio  Geek (gadgets), Mama (parenting), Cute (beauty) and ScreamPrice (bargain deals)  will be injected intoLocket and ScreenPop.This wontbe the first time content in Lockets apps getsinterspersed with a little marketing and promotion.When Kim left her job as an investment banker to co-found Locket because she didnt like the look of her plain blue screen on her Samsung Galaxy phone, the app was significantly more commercially focused. It actually started outmixing its content with ads: If you swiped right to interact with the ad, you earned a little bit of money. If you swiped left, you unlocked your phone.Second, some of the technology, design and native content that Locket has been working on will start to get integratedinto Wish and its other shopping apps.There are things we built at Locket that will benefit some of the apps that Wish has, Kim said in an interview. If you think about it, Lockets content recommendation is not unlike what Wish does when it recommends products. She added that Wish is a very data scientist-heavy organization, mostly focused on data and the platforms recommendation engine. Lockets focus on user experience and the lockscreen should be a good complement to that.Wish, which was founded in 2011, has seen a lot of success in its mobile-first approach to shopping. Today the company has 100 million users, who on average spend around 30 minutes on the site.Like Amazon, eBay and other large e-commerce portals, Wish positions itself as a marketplace platform, where different merchants sell goods alongside each other. Wish isdifferentfrom the rest of the pack because itis built with mobile browsing in mind. For example, scrolling through items is quick and easy, and Wish puts extra emphasis on recommendation so that it can present a smaller but hopefully more relevant list of items to match what you are looking for.The other way Wish is different is thatit has a strong emphasis on interest verticals  for example by having individual apps for specific categories and demographics.Its been a winningenough formula that the company has also attracted the attention of investors. In June, we reported that Wish had raised a $500 million round at a $3 billion valuation, with the investment led by DST. The company has never officially confirmed this number. Earlierbackersinclude Jerry Yang, Founders Fund, Jared Let, Formation 8 and several others).This would give the company, which has raised nearly $580 million to date, a warchest to invest in future development.Locket is the first acquisition, but we have huge plans, said Kim.Update: Were removing the price wed published as there is some dispute about it now.