 Either this keyboard istoo good to be true, and it is currently only a prototype  so thats entirely possible.Or its a stroke (swipe?) of overdue genius.The gist: Moky is a rechargeable Bluetooth keyboard with a built in gesture-supporting touchpad thatslocated in the same space as the keys  so you dont need to carry a separate touchpad or mouse. And no, its not positioned atthe bottomof the keyboard, or to the side. Its right over the keys. Ergo:you dont need to make awkward wrist movements to reach it.The design enables scrolling and pinch to zoom in the same placewhere you type.How is this trickery possible? The keyboard has embeddedInfrared laser sensors at the corners to create a virtual touchpad field which, once triggered,can tell where your fingers are moving, and translate those touchless swipes into navigation. It can even turn slight taps into mouse clicks. Or thats the pitch.They say they have a working prototype at this point (demoed in the below video) but its still a work in progress.The aim forthe finished product isa keyboard thats 8mm thick.The design does also still require the user to hold down a key at the bottom of the keyboard to turnthe touchpad on, so its not entirely touchless. But its still a pleasingly efficient-looking use of space. And one that could offer someergonomic relief for sufferers of traditional keyboard and mouse-induced RSI.The Korean team behind the prototype is currently raising crowdfunds on Indiegogo to turn their idea into a shipping product, with an estimated release date of this October. Theyve already easilyoutstrippedtheir original funding goal of $30,000, with almost $55,000 raised at the time of writing  and still more than a month of crowdfunding on their campaign clock. So theyve clearly presseda nerve. In a good way.They say itwork with Windows, Mac and Android, supporting a maximum of two-point multitouch. Thetouchpad element wont work with iOS  as they note Apple doesnt (currently) support mouse input on iOS.