For smaller companies, setting up a 401(k) can be one of the most difficult exercises  but its still one of the most important ones. Thats why Money Intel is trying to simplify that process and make it easy to set up one in a few minutes.For small businesses, setting up a 401(k) is one of the most important steps for its employees  both financially and symbolically. The companyhopes to attract companies with a simpler pricing model and a short turnaround to set upa 401(k). Money Intels goal is to have a 401(k) up and running in just a few minutes by algorithmically preparing the most-common versions of 401(k) preparation documents and giving companies the ability to sign them, and helping employers continually manage their 401(k) plans.Money Intel launchedat TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2015.Employees can then use an online service that helps them plan out their 401(k) investments with simple tools like sliders that will show their rough income after they retire. It offers recommended financial plans  CEO Monte Malhotra and his co-founder Andrew Hallengren are licensed financial advisors  that employ strategieslike using index funds, Malhotra said. Money Intel charges a flat $1,500 annual fee and 0.5% of plan assets per year pro-rated quarterly.For most people, the 401(k) is their primary savings vehicle, not just for retirement but for everything, Malhotra said. For better or worse most companies dont even offer a 401(k). They do at much larger company sizes, 90% of small businesses dont offer a 401(k) plan due to cost and administrative complexity.Money Intel starts off with the companydeciding which plan provisions a company wants to implement. They choose a common 401(k) plan that the company offers and can do some light customization, like what percentage the company wants to match, Monte said. The goal is to help a company figure out which category they fall into, and then help get the plan turned on quickly. There are two common categories, Monte said: plans where employees are immediately eligible for their 401(k), and plans where employers want employees to wait some time before becoming eligible.Then, the documents are automaticallygenerated based on the provisions those companies set, and the employer can electronically sign them in order to get the 401(k) up and running. These documents are typically very complex and require around a month to complete, but Money Intel hopes that by finding ways to algorithmically generate the most-common versions, it can handle most small business needs.Money Intel helps the companies continually manage the compliance components of a 401(k) and integrates with payroll and HR systems in order to help continually manage the companys plans as well as new employees are brought on and things change.As companies get larger, they find the compliance services increasingly valuable, Malhotra said on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2015.Malhotrasays his story started when he was in fourth grade, with a teacher that used investing examples to talk about fractions, decimals and long division. In high school, he wanted to better explain the financial concepts he had learned, and actually wrote a short book on investing for a younger audience. He started a finance club in high school with his co-founderAndrew Hallengren.To be sure, Money Intel is not the only startup trying to make it easier to create a 401(k) for smaller companies  nor is it the only one thats launched in the past few months. Captain401, for example, came out of Y Combinator in July and also looks to make creating and managing a 401(k) much simpler.Money Intels investment recommendations donthave a lotof data about the performance of its financial investments yet. The underlying index and mutual funds we use to invest have decades long performance records which we make available to employees, Malhotra said.And of course, there are larger companies that could find their way downstream.Monte argues that Money Intels selling point will be that its much faster to set up a 401(k) and easier to manage with plans created by Money Intel, and that will convince smaller businesses to sign up.Those primary concerns  its too expensive, its lots of work, why cant tech fix those things  theres no reason why complexity and cost should be a factor, Malhotra said. And for employees, theres no reason why they cant get the financial advice.