One of the 549 million people whouse WeChat each month? Based in China? Expect to see more sponsored content inside your in-app news feed becauseparent company Tencent is gearing up to increase monetization of the popularmessaging app.The company began testing advertising inside Moments, the appssocial network-like feed where users share photos and links with friends, earlier this year. Now it has confirmed that it will ramp up its effortsand expand the program this year.That means more advertisers  Tencent said it experimented with a dozen initial partners  and more ad formats too.We willprogressively expand the number and range of advertising formats as we move through the year, Chief Strategy OfficerJames Mitchellsaidon an investor call following the companys Q1 2015 financial results. Advertisers are very happy with results of the first sequence of ads.Via Tech In AsiaThe move is significant for a number of reasons. Unlike basic messaging apps like WhatsApp, WeChat  which is known as Weixin in China  does a lot more than facilitate text messages and calls between friends.Weixin users can hail taxis, play games, buy items from retailer (Alibaba rival) JD.com, share content with friends viaMoments, and more.The app is hugely popular in China, and thatmakes itssocial feed a particularly prized canvass for advertisers.There is, of course, naturally a concern that advertising canruin the user experience. To that, Mitchellsaid that an important component is making eachad interesting enough that users will share it.Tencent seemed to do a good job here initially. Moment ads actually became a viral story in their own, as friends used the advertiser matched against their profile as a sign of their value as a user.That said, the company did admit that it still has the opportunity to improve the overall experience for both users and advertisers.In-app advertising is important for Tencent because it offsets a reliance on mobile games. Though gaming is still a huge chunk of Tencents income it accounted for $2.15 billion of its$3.647 billion revenue in Q1 2015  it can be a fickle niche, as the Chinese firmdiscovered when it missed its earning target in Q3 2014. Plus, with WeChat user growth slowing, new revenue generation initiatives are important.