On Wednesday night, at anevent in San Francisco, Automattic founder and CEO Matt Mullenweg answered a wide range of questions inconversation with one of the earliest investors in the company, Tony Conrad of True Ventures. (Conrad is also the cofounder and CEO of the self-expression platform About.me.)One of the most interesting aspects of the talk touched on the future of an internal messaging system that Automattics far-flung workforce of 400-plus employees relies on, and that Automattic is considering commercializing, according to Mullenweg.Given Automattics funding (it raised $160 million last year alone), and its reach (Automattic is the parent company of WordPress, which claims to power24 percent of all sites), thatsnews. Indeed, its easy to imagine an Automattic product becoming a strong competitor to both Slack and even to Facebook, which is planning to release its own workplace communications app by year end.More from the eveningsconversation, edited for length, follows.Mullenweg, on keeping things fresh for himself, given that hefoundedAutomattic10 years ago:I change my hairstyle every six months, he said, laughing.On the future of open, distributed, accessible systems:Hopefully, were at the nadir of openness right now. Youre not going to build the next Facebook on top of Facebook.On how Automattic finds the right balance between what its going to go after without stepping on the toes of its community:Here, Mullenweg noted that people using WordPress are making far more than Automattic itself. There are now many billions of dollars being made on top of it, and we dont disclose our revenue, but Ill say they are smaller than that.Mullenweg went on to say that the company triesto avoid conflicts with its users by communicating with them extensively. Though Automatticjust made its biggest acquisition ever earlier this year, buying the commerce platform WooCommerce (which claims to power 30 percent of all online stores), he said that hed probably been saying for several years before that happened that Automattic would move into e-commerce, and that users understood it was an area that we considered strategic.As for what theWooCommerce acquisition means (i.e, whether Automattic will now compete more directly with the likes of Shopify):Here, Mullenweg suggested that WooCommerce will remain an independently run unit, even drawing a comparison between Automattic and newly established Alphabet, the holding company that now counts Google among its moneymaking subsidiaries. WordPress was one of the products [we imagined for Automattic]. Weve also tried a lots of other bets; some have done well, lots have been insignificant, but weve tried. And were excited to see where we can take WooCommerce.It does seem like WooCommerce is expected to becomea major growth engine for the company going forward. Though Mullenweg characterized it as still a prosumer product for the savviest of users, he expects it to evolve in much the same way as content management systems have evolved on WordPress, where people used to have to hire third parties to build thembut they can now publish very professional-looking sites on their own.That said, Mullenweg beggedpatience. With payments come challenges, he noted, like taxes, shipping, payments, refunds, fraud. Its a whole new world thats not usually addressed by open source. He added, laughing, There arent that many [open-source obsessed] engineers who go home [after working elsewhere for the day] and say, I want to work on a new payment gateway . . . So were navigating that.On challenges to WordPresss growth posed by platforms like Medium:Mullenweg didnt sound terribly concerned about a lot of things, from Medium to Facebooks Instant Articles program. There are always things that capture the tech reporting cycle and tech funding, and weve seen a lot of those things come and go, he said. The macro trend, he continued, is that people want their own domain, their own site, their own voice, and not just to be a page on someone elses [platform]as a digital sharecropper.Not last, Mullenweg talked about Automattics famously distributed workforce:Less than 1 percent of our burn goes to rent, said Mullenweg, agreeing with Chamath Palihapitiya that it makes no sense to spend a lot of capital on luxurious offices. In a world where at offices, everyone has headphones on and stares at screens anyway, and you have software that enables meetings online  whether thats Zoom or Google Hangouts or Slack connecting people  you can create not just a distributed workforce, but one thats more global and diverse.Finally, Mullenwegwasasked about Automattics internal messaging system (which Mullenweg has mentioned to reporters in the past) and whether theres a commercial opportunity in it:Said Mullenweg, Weve at various times flirted with commercializing it and making it a thing. The truth of the matter is that, even at 400 people, we are incredibly resource constrained for our primary mission and goal, so we ended up tabling it for focus reasons purely. But I absolutely hope that we loop back to it at some point, because I do believe that distributed work is the future of work.Theres an incredible lifestyle arbitrage to be had when you can make a San Francisco salary and live in Texas, like I do, or in Utah, or any one of the beautiful places around the world . . . So yeah, well release those tools at some point and perhaps even try to make a business around it.In the meantime, he added, were just open-sourcing everything and giving it away.(Btw, heres a very early version of that internal messaging system, P2.)