
Ben Kepes is a technology evangelist, an investor, a commentator and a business adviser.OrionHealthis a New Zealand-founded (now global) provider of technology products developed for thehealthsector.Orions founder and CEO, Ian McCrae, is apassionateadvocate for a new way of doing business. He argues that current approaches to patient information are akin to the Victorian era, when a surgeons blood-stained uniform was a source of great pride because it showed medical expertise. InMcCraesview, todays approach to prescribing drugs, the so-calledpopulation-basedapproach, is harmful.As McCrae sees it, clinicians dont have access to the totality of information available about a patient and, hence, have to use very course treatment protocols. He quotes research published in Nature Journal that found that of the 10 most popular drugs prescribed in the U.S., only a limited number actually help patients  as low as one in 25 patients in some cases.McCrae believes that a unique set of circumstances is creating an opportunity to move toprecision medicine. Firstly, medical andtestingtechnology ismovingin leaps and bounds  theavailabilityof not onlytraditionaltesting, such as blood and imaging, but also newer approaches such as genetic sequencing. The development of even deeper testing and information gathering will, in his view, create the lions share of total information that is held about an individualhealthconsumer in the future.Cloud computing, and the ability it gives to process and store bulk information quickly, easily and cheaply, is another factor. An agingpopulation,andthe need to provide better outcomes for an increasingly at-risk population,is another. And, finally, policy changes will have an impact, such as President Obamas push toward more results-basedhealthfunding.With all of these trendsoccurringaroundthe same time, there is perhaps a unique opportunity to create a new way of providinghealththat is astransformationas the post-Victorian discovery of sepsis and the need for a cleanenvironmentto avoid cross infection and contamination. This is the opportunity that OrionHealthwas set up to leverage. The company, which is publicly listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, employs more than 1,250 people globally and has, to date, ingested close to 120 million medical records ofindividualpatients. Commercial partnerships see it poised to ingest close to another 200millionrecords.That is a staggering amount of data, evenbasedon the more traditional, and hence incomplete, approaches tohealthdata. Four-hundred million individuals prescription and assessment records, medical imaging and blood records makes up for a vast and useful aggregation of data. And the vastness of this data willonlygrow. McCrae believesthe digital body  that is, the totality of data around an individual when genetic and exogenous (environmental,nutritional, social) factors relating tohealthdata become available will be in excess of1 TBper person.And this is where the cloud comes in  1 TB is simply too much data to be stored by an individual clinician, regardless of the other pitfalls of doing so (like being unable to collaborate with otherhealth professionals). Rather, this data will be set on massivehealthIT platforms like that whichOrionhas built. And by sitting on these platforms, a treasure trove of insight is able to be generated from aggregated (and, yes,anonymizedand suitably secured in terms of privacy) data. As PresidentObamastateda few months ago during a White House forum onprecisionmedicine:the key to all of this is for us to be able to build up databases. And because all of uspotentiallycould have electronic medical records thatvoluntarily with strong privacy protections  we pool together so that researchers, practitioners, scientists can share, we may be able to accelerate the process of discovering cures in ways that weve never seen before.McCrae isbullishthat his company will be a leader in this new field ofprecisionmedicine. Around 30 percent of the $100 million-plus revenue thatOriongenerates per annum is poured back into researchanddevelopment, and the company is expanding its international footprint, and partnerships with other vendors, rapidly. It has largehealth-provider customers in the U.K., the U.S. and its home market ofAustralasia,and it is actively working on solutions that can move beyondthe digitization of medical records, to the pooling of those records for deeper analysis and insight.One thing is sure:HealthIT in the future will be very different from what it is today, and unimaginably so from those Victorian times that seem so archaicnow.OrionHealthhas an interesting part to play in that journey.