Mozilla and its Firefox browser have been hurtingbadlyin the stakes for browser market against Google Chrome, Microsofts Internet Explorer and Apples Safari, and now the company is preparing a bigger restructuring with its president and a mobile VP both leaving the company, along with a renewed marketing and product effort that it plans to kick off likely in May, as it looks to tackle this. This will include Mozilla finally releasing a version of Firefox for iOS.TechCrunch has learned, and confirmed, that Li Gong, thepresident of Mozilla, and Rick Fant, its VP of mobile, are parting ways with the organization.Li Gong and Rick Fant are stepping down and leaving Mozilla to pursue other opportunities, said Chris Beard, Mozillas CEO. We thank them for all of their contributions and wish them well in their next adventures. As part of this transition, we are hiring a VP of Firefox OS to focus on the next phase of Firefox OS development and well have more to share soon.Gong has been with Mozilla since 2007, when he joined from leading Bessemer Venture Partners China office. Before that he was an executive with Microsoft in China and before that a longtime employee of Sun Microsystems. Fant, meanwhile had been with Mozilla for two years, before that in roles with European carrier Vodafone, Volantis and Microsoft as well.Foran organization that saw a very short-lived CEO departlast year after his controversial support of the California proposition that would repeal gay marriage, Gong and Fant had decidedly less colorful public profiles, although both were in very senior and critical roles.We first heard of the two departures by way of a tip that also hinted at a bigger restructuring by Beard. Mozilla has not commented on that.Separately, weve also been passed a leaked presentation that points to a major fightback marketing campaign that Mozilla has beenplanning starting in Q2, likely to start in May, to try to bring more users to Firefox. Mozilla has also confirmed the authenticity of that documentto us.The campaignwill include increased marketing spend  separately and with its new search partner, Yahoo  to try to educate users on how Firefox is the independent option and different from Chrome, IE and the rest, and it will also focus on new product launches to spur use of the platform.Specifically, Mozilla is planning finally to release a version of Firefox for iOS, and focus more users on its privacy controls as they sit in contrast to other browsers like Chrome.The company has had a tough time competing against Googles browserand IE. Inthe presentation, Mozilla internally describes Firefox as having entered 2014 in an alarming decline  although more recently it seems to have stabilized that position.In the time since then its launched other, smaller marketing campaigns that have proven successful, and currently has an 18% share of the market, compared to Chromes 41% and IEs 28% in U.S. desktop browser usage. But globally, its more level with IE, with both significantly behind Chrome, with the shares of the three at 53% for Chrome, 19% for IE, and 18% for Firefox.Source: StatCounter Global Stats  Browser Market ShareMozilla has also tried to pick up speed on its mobile strategy.Most recently, in March Mozilla announced low-end Firefox OS-based phones that would be coming to the U.S. for the first time, along with a partnership to continue rolling out the handsets in emerging markets, most recently in Africa.Thisidea is to use the foundations10th anniversary to try to claw back more market share again to grow its user base, which currently stands at around 300 million.