Mozilla, the open-source Internetsoftware company that makes the Firefox web browser, has been working hard to get more critical mass on mobile with Firefox OS  key to making is platform relevant both fordevelopers and users in the longer term as mobile becomes an ever more important way to go online. Today, it announced another wave of partnershipsthat will see Firefox OS make its first foray into the U.S. market  by way of feature phones and a deal with Verizon Wireless  and into Africa/Middle East  by way of a new handset and a partnership with Orange.In a longer conversation with Andreas Gal, the CTO and VP of mobile for Mozilla, I asked about some of the companys challenges in the market, when we will see it appearing in other places like cars, and why it doesnt matter that you still cant use Uber on Firefox OS phones.Strategy Analytics Neil Mawston has said thatFirefox is the industrys fastest-growing smartphone OS, but thats from a very low base and with traction in only a handful of countries in Latin America and Western Europe. How do you convince potential partners that you are or can be relevant?If you look at Android you can see its not a healthy ecosystem, becausethats not an experience where device makers can differentiate. And thats only becoming more the case, if you look at initiatives like Android One, where Google dictates what these phones are supposed to look like, right down to chipset.Thats the opportunity. Yes, we are very late into the game, we are several years late, but that is because the mobile web is late. A couple of years ago you couldnt even do the smallestthings over the mobile web and thats where we are trying to make a difference.When will see Firefox OS in cars, and why havent you done more in targeting other kinds of mobile devices?In the beginning we focused on smartphones because that was where volumesare. There are still billions looking for connectivity and they will do it using a mobile handset. With something like cars,until we are ready to talk about something we wont. We are a much smaller organization than, say, Google, so we focus our attention.The partnerships in general work along the lines of the recent deal we announced with Panasonic for the first Firefox OS TV. Panasonic came to us, adding engineersand much of the work needed to bring Firefox OS to TVs.This is how we will do other things. Weare talkingto partners, to anyone who wants to take the OS to other device categories.Weare talking to a lot of different partners. Just this week we will talk to a lot of different electronics companies. In mobile we are late but in the Internet of Things, there areno established winners yet, and we are very interested in conversations. One thing that is worth mentioning is the experimental devicemade by Monohm, and heirloom smartphone called the Runcible.Targeting emerging markets aligns youup with Facebook, which is also putting a lot of effort into targeting emerging markets. Do you think you will ever work with them, or do you think that door is closed off because of the fact that Google is also part of Internet.org, and that Facebook already works extensively in iOS and Android?We havean integration with Facebook on the web (the do not track social API) anda good relationship withthem. Internet.orgis something we are aware of and have talked about. Its true, they have been leaning quite a bit on Android but Im not entirely clear what they are trying to achieve. Internet.orgmostly looks like a Facebook for all. Welike the idea of more connectivityfor peoplebut want to make sure that its access for all. Its important that its not just for segregatedservices. I alsohave a hard time seeing Facebookand Google working together in an overlapping area of interest. They arecompetitors.Why the turn to feature phones when everyone  even Mozilla, until today  is so fixated on smartphone growth?About one-third of all phones in the U.S.are feature phones, and until 2018 or 2019 the volume is not going to declinethat much. The overall market is growing faster than that category is declining. So we are trying to be onthat line. Going into the feature phone category and not the iPhoneend of the range is how we can enter the market. We have other carriers besides Verizon who have expressed interest in Firefox OS. This is just the first concrete announcement.This is not exclusive, andin some cases you see carriers even working with competition to create a neutral platform.Microsoft has been trying to break the duopoly of Google and Apple in mobile operating systems, with very little success. Why do you think you might have a shot here?FirefoxOSis in a different situation in two ways. First, weare targeting a different segment than Windows Phones. They are trying to convert people off iPhone,and that is very hard. And in emerging markets, we are not tracking Windows Phone at all.Those low end devicesarecheap for U.S. standards but its a different definition they are aiming at emergingcountries.Thesecond and moreimportant problem is much harder: Windows Phone is a proprietary ecosystem using Microsoftlanguage. Going to app makers and telling them, use this language, is partly why Microsoftis having such a hard time. Weare different. We didnt have to go to Facebookand say, Can you make a Firefox experience? They didnt have to do that. Okay, its still not as polished as the native Facebook apps, but its a much smaller problem to solve. Its a few percentage points of a gap to be closed.Native apps continue to define how people are using their mobile devices, while you have built Firefox OS around the mobile web. How are you getting around the fact that some of the most popular mobile apps today  like Uber  are just not available in a mobile web format?Yes, Uber is not availablebut this is not a problem so far. We dontneed Uberin Senegal, for example. A much bigger problem is to make sure we providelocal apps, and for those using smartphone for the first time, this usually means local news and information, and local services.But again, this is a gap that we have to close. Even Instagram is not fully optimised but even there you have at least a partial experience[of viewing and commenting, if not taking and posting pictures, via the web].But aswe turn to more established markets like the U.S., the content needs are changing. We will have to work closer with top brands, which are important in Japan and the North American market.