Withits web-based, no-native Firefox OS smartphoneslaunched only in 2013, the open-source web software maker Mozilla has been a late mover in mobile, with only 1 million devices shipped to date. But it continues to step up its efforts nevertheless: at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona,Mozilla today is announcingnew deals with several carriers, OEMs and a chipmaker that will see it active in 40 marketsby 2016.Perhaps most notably, it will work with Verizon to bring the first Firefox phones to the U.S. (along with Japans KDDI and Telefonica for their respective footprints)  not smartphones, butfeature phones that will focus on form factors like flip and slide openings. Andit will work with Orange to crack into Africa and the Middle East with the Klif, a new phone that will cost less than $40.Alongside thedevice announcements, Mozilla is also continuing with improvements for Firefox OS, such as support for multi-core processors to keep up with developments in Android in particular, and support for NFC-based payments. And its also continuing to play its hand in areas where it hopes to continue to stake out a claim.There are also more privacy features getting added to the open source platform (but, again, no special privacy phone), and Mozilla continues to add more support for WebRTC, but no availability of its videochatplatform Hello just yet. And it is also launching a new version of Webmaker to court more developers to make apps for the mobile web. The web can, must and will remain open, noted Mitchell Baker, the chairman of the Mozilla Foundation, at the press event in Barcelona today. Thats why we launched Firefox, and thats why we launched Firefox OS.The challenge today (and in future) for Mozilla is that Googles Android currently accounts for the vast majority of all the smartphones that are shipped today by volume (over 80% by some estimates). And when it comes to profits, Apple accounts for nearly 90%.Mozilla does not disclose how well its phones have sold to date but byone estimate, from Strategy Analytics, Firefox shipped only 1 million units globally in 2014. That is up from near-zero in 2013, when much had yet to be launched.Andreas Gal, the CTO and VP of mobile for Mozilla, spinsthis dominationas an opportunity.The Android ecosystem is unhealthy, and we are basically facing a duopoly, he told TechCrunch in an interview. Its true that Apple makes the most profit and Androidaccounts forthe most devices, withmost of that revenue carried home by Google. But OEMs and carriersare having a hard time making differentiated devices. This is where we come in. We are much more flexible, and we dont have the same priorities as these two do. Mozilla today makes much of its money from search deals with the likes of Google and Yahoo, who pay to be placedas the default search option on the Firefox web browser in different markets (and you can read more from Gal in an interview here).Much of Mozillassmartphone strategy up to nowhas been about targeting developing markets, because that is wherethe growth is happening today andfor most the iPhoneis not affordable, says Gal.Now its also trying the reverse.Verizon Wireless, Telefonica and KDDI  alongwith device maker LG  plan to launch Firefox OS-based feature phones, which theywill sell into markets like the U.S. and Japan. Breaking fromthe very standard touchscreen slab that we have come to associate with smartphones today, these devices will also incorporate more retro forms, such as clamshell-style devices that you flip open to use, and sliding openings. These devices  no visuals available yet  will start to ship in 2016, Gal tells me.The idea here is to make handsets that will appeal to consumers whoare still using feature phones, whoprefer more a more tactile experience, whowant something a little simpler to use, or who are just missing their old, beloved RAZR.This doesnt mean that the deviceswill not be without some high end bells and whistles. They will still incorporate things like LTE, music players and access to (web-based) apps, Gal says. You could argue that they may be more accurately described as smartphones dressed up in feature phone clothing.There is some logic to courting the lower end of advanced markets like the U.S. Althoughwe hear a lot about how smartphones are dominating a lot of new device purchases today, about 29% of all mobiles in use in the U.S. today are still feature phone devices, according to Nielsen. Mozilla has around a 16% share of the desktop browser market in the U.S. currently and so tapping a new group of users there could help it grow its overall position.On the other side, Mozillas Firefox OS is essentially givingcarriers and OEMs a way to compete with Samsung and its Tizen platform for feature phones, as well the lower end devices from Nokia/Microsoft. The promise it makes is that it gives a lot more freedom to carriers and device makers when designing these devices.Verizon aims to deliver innovative new products to its customers, and this initiative is about creating a modern, simple and smart platform for basic phones, Rosemary McNally, VP of device technology at Verizon, said in a statement. Were looking forward to continuing to work with Mozilla and other service providers to leverage the power of Firefox OS and the Web community.KDDI, meanwhile, says that its move to offer a low end Firefox phone has grown out of some early traction on the FxO Firefox OS device that it launched in Japan in December 2014. We have been gaining high attention from the market with Fx0and we have faith in the unlimited potential of Firefox OS, Yasuhide Yamamoto, VP of product for KDDI, said in a statement. KDDI has been very competitive in the Japanese mature mobile phone market for decades, so we are confident that we can contribute to the Mozilla community in developing this new concept product.KDDI has also been supporting Mozilla in another way. Its taken an investment in a hardware maker called Monohm, which is building IoT devices based on Firefox OS.Telefonica was one of Mozillas very earliest partners in conceiving a smartphone based on Firefox OS and currently sells these in 14 of the markets where it is active, so its no surprise to see it also among those that are working with Mozilla to expand the range of devices that are coming out of this.Telefnica is actively supporting Firefox OS, aligned with our strategy of bringing more options and more openness to our customers, Francisco Montalvo, director of devices for the Telefonica group, said in a statement, who adds that extending its partnership to feature phones will help bring connectivity to more people who are looking for a reliable and simple user experience at affordable prices.The push into countries like the U.S.is not exactly a turn away from emerging markets, however. This is getting a big boost by way of a new deal with Frances Orange, which will be sellinga new phone called the Klif  a device that will sell for under $40, including a bundle of voice, data and text services. Pictured above, the Klifwill start to ship in Q2 of this year in 13 markets including Egypt, Senegal, Tunisia, Cameroon, Botswana, Madagascar, Mali, The Ivory Coast, Jordan, Niger, Kenya, Mauritius and Vanuatu.Initially, this will be in an exlusive deal with the carrier, Mozilla says.The device, which will be made by AlcatelOnetouch (the venture with TCL of China), will feature connectivity speeds of up to21 Mbps, as well as adual SIM, anda two-megapixel camera and micro-SD slot. It will bethe first Firefox OS phone powered by a MediaTek processor, meaning that now the OS is supported by three major chip makers including Qualcomm and Spreadtrum, which itself launched a $25 reference design last year.Gal says that the Spreadtrum-based phones were particularly aimed at countries in Asia like India, where 3G connectivity is often still lacking. Africa, on the other hand, has some extensive 3G network build out already, so they are looking for different phones.