Ask most writers and editors and Ill bet they agree: Writing headlines is hard. Its not easy to come up withsomething exciting and attention-grabbing that also conveys the important information about a story in just a few words.Meanwhile, brands and marketers are creating more of their own content, so they have to worry about this, too. Native advertising company Sharethrough is trying to help with a new, free product called Hemingway, which will look at a headline, grade it and offer suggestions for improvement.Sharethrough CEO Dan Greenberg told me that the aim isnt to make sure every piece of marketing and content suddenly comes with a cookie-cutter, Upworthy-style headline. Instead, he suggested that were entering this new era of straightforwardness, where a good headline is not a headline that hints at something, its one that says what it wants to say.After all, those You wont believe what happened next! headlines are really designed to drive clicks  but even then, only a tiny percentage of people who see themare actually going to click through. So doesnt it make sense to write a headline that gets your message across, even if people dont read the article or watch the video? And thats particularly true if youre a marketer trying to promote a brand, rather than a news publication trying to make money from ad impressions.If Im Tesla or Volvo, I can live in the headlines, Greenberg said. I dont care if someone comes to my website. I want people learning things about me and coming up with new opinions about my products.That all sounds good in theory, but how does Hemingway apply that in practice? Greenberg said its applying the research that Sharethrough has done to measure the effectiveness of mobile ads and basically translating that intobest practices and a score. (There are also sub-scores, onefocusing on engagement and one on maximizing brand lift for peoplewho see the headline but dontclick.)I even tried out the headline for this very article. It got a score of 70  in the positive column, Hemingway noted that I didnt use too much positive sentiment, did mention a brand and used active language. On the negative side, it suggested that I increase the headline length, use more context words and hey, why not throw a celebrity in there?Unfortunately, I couldnt think of the right celebrity.