An experimental solar cell created by MIT researchers could massively increase the amount of power generated by a given area of panels, while simultaneously reducing the amount of waste heat. Even better, it sounds super cool when scientists talk about it: with our own unoptimized geometry, we in fact could break the Shockley-Queisser limit.The Shockley-Queisser limit, which is definitely not made up, is the theoretical maximum efficiency of a solar cell, and its somewhere around 32 percent for the most common silicon-based ones.Sound weird? Heres the thing. Solar cells work best with a certain wavelength of light  perhaps ultraviolet is too short, while infrared is too long, but lets say 600nm (orange visible light) is perfect. Only some of the broad-spectrum radiation emitted by the sun is at or around 600nm, which limits the amount of energy the cell can pull out of that radiation  thats one of the components of the Shockley-Queisser limit.What Bierman and the others on his team did was to add a step between the sun and the cell: a carefully engineered structure of carbon nanotubes. The carbon nanotubes are virtually a perfect absorber over the entire color spectrum, said Bierman in the MIT news release. All of the energy of the photons gets converted to heat.The teams thermophotovoltaic cell in action.Normally heat is undesirable in a solar cell, as its just waste energy that can interfere with normal operation. But in this case, the heat is not allowed to dissipate; instead, the carbon nanostructure converts the heat back into light  at the exact optimum wavelength of the photovoltaic cell.The result is a huge increase in efficiency, and thats not the only benefit. Heat, unlike light, is easy to store and move. If the days sunlight wereentirely converted to heat and stored away, it could be converted to light on demand  like, say, at night. In other words, this technique essentially allows sunlight to be saved for later.Experimental results bore out the theory, and a prototype TPV cell performed as expected. But the tech still needs to make it out of the lab, and manufacturing the complex carbon nanomaterials in bulk is no simple task. So you wont be using thermophotovoltaics next year or the year after  but the technique is a tremendously promising one and unlikely to be left on the shelf.The teams research was published in the journal Nature Energy.