Nattchis a mobile social network for people tired of the digital noisefoundon mainstream social services  whether its ads, memes, animated GIFs, videos of cute cats. Whatever. Point being that stuff can be termedextraneousdistraction if thereason you signed up to the service was to learn about your friends lives. Not see another trollface meme. Or Taylor Swift GIF.Yet logging into Facebook pretty much inevitably results in going downtheproverbial digital rabbit hole  looking at food photos made bya chef plating junk food to look like fine dining, or watching a videoof a chipmunk languorouslystretching itself on a divan, followed witha dog that rides on the back of abike, and a cat perched on a guitar while its owner sings. Not to mention all thoseads. Friends? Oh look! A rabbit that snuggles up with a puppy! How cute!Nattch ejectsthis type ofgarbagecontent, as it calls it, encouraging users to share only updates about their actual lives. So no cute, funny or interesting stuff youveseen or read on the Internet. That stuff is banned by this regime. Theres even a report button for users to police others postings. The idea being to create a clean social network that containsonly real stuff relating topeoples lives. So kind of like Facebook when Facebookfirst started.The bootstrapping startupwas actually foundedin August 2013 without such a clean proposition, just as a(nother) way to share content. Co-founder Mauri Saavedra, who hails from Bolivia but has based the business in Argentina, says that led to him losing interestin the project.But itwas relaunched last monthwith a newfocus on bare bones social networking  and the topical promise of resulting time-savings. (See also: the Apple Watch for promises of technology designed to save time.)I was laying on my bed while using Facebook on my iPhone and after spending a couple of minutes browsing my news feed I start noticing that most of the stories I was looking at were random stories, things that I didnt choose to see and were irrelevant in my life. For every good story there were like sixunrelated stories that I didnt even care about, saysSaavedra.It was an epiphany moment, I remember thinking I would love to have a place with only good stories so I can stop looking at this random things that make me waste time. I was spending a lot of time on my smartphone back then.So I said to myself, Nattch is already built and this is the core idea I was looking for, A social network without garbage.Thats how it started.Nattch isnot the first social serviceto try to grab traction on an anti-Facebook ticket of course. Last fallEllo.co snagged attention with itsad-free social network  and went on to raise $5.5 million the following month.Earlier this year that alternative social networkadded the ability to share music and video clips. And its still ticking away, offering users an ad-free space forsharing visual content plusstatus updates.But Ello isstill a bit different to Nattch. The formeris filled with the type of content Nattch would dub garbage. Very pretty looking garbage, for sure. But still a whole lot of extraneous distraction if the mission isto find out is what your friends are actually doing and thinking. Not whattheyve happened to stumble acrosson the Internet.Sowhere Ellos content comes across asrather Pinterest-ish in character, Nattchsis a whole lotmore quotidian. Photos of the view from peoples window as they wake up. Or what they thought of when they walked through the park. Not that theres much of it as yet  given its only just relaunched, and is classing this as a public beta. But bottom line this is a social network that reckons less is more, and personal is better.The two core rules of Nattch Club are:If you saw a video on the internet that you thought is fun , dont share it on Nattch. Because its not related to your life and your followers might not be interested in it, explainsSaavedra. If you were walking through a park during vacations and took a photo about the park and beautiful sky of the day. Share it on Nattch, because the photo is about something you are living, and your followers do want to know about what you are living.Although Nattchs focus is on a more personal and real-world type of social sharing (theres also a location check-in feature, for instance) the app does allow users to post content publicly, where all Nattch users can viewit. Or you can sharepostings to just the people following you  to keep things a little less public.We truly recommend users to follow only the few people that matter most in their lives, and if they are not on Nattch to invite them. We dont want our users to follow 300or 400people because their news feed will start to scatter with not really important stories to them. No one truly cares about the life of three hundred people, adds Saavedra.That social structureseems a bit less consistent, since Nattchis not offering to be a Path-style limited-only-to-friends social network. Youre still thinking out loudin public on this social network. And thinking in front of some people you wontknow IRL. Which makes it more like Twitter, except everything you post here has to be personal. And that means the frequencyof posts will probablybe drastically reduced.Look at your own Twitter feed and count the ratio of personal postings vs third party stuff youre RTing or just linking to/pointing out. Manypeoples skew towards tweeting more of the latter. Still,again, perhaps thats Nattchs point. This social network isnt trying to generate unnecessary noiseso doesnt wanta constant flow of stuff to eyeball.Butgettingusers to realize that, slow down and smell the digital roses may, paradoxically, take some time/getting used to  since weve all been conditioned to expect and filter streams of colorful ifimpersonal content. Rather than to linger over thoughtful postcards.Like Ello Nattch does not have ads. But the plan is to monetize via a yearlysubscription  a la WhatsApp  of $0.99. Nattchcosts $1.99 asa paid download in the U.S. whichcovers the first two years of the subscription.Nattch isa nice idea in an increasingly noisy world, which can at timesfeel like its hovering on the brink ofdistraction fatigue given all the demands being placed on our attention by smartphones and thesocial services they pimp. But whetherNattchs quieter channelcan build traction remains to be seen. It is after all yet another channel to check. And charging even a small fee for an app download, especially in such a competitive space, puts up a highbarrier to adoption.Its also questionable whether Nattch users can be kept in line sharing the right type of content. After all a clean environment does not take a lot ofpollution to muddy itswaters. And one persons trash is another persons treasure.Still, apps and technologies trying to trade on thepromise of reduced distractions are emerging as a growingtheme. And that is worth noticing.