French startup Nestor just raised $1 million (900,000) from business angels through Anaxago, and TheFamily. The startup competes in the incredibly fierce market of food delivery startups in Paris. Compared to its competitors, Nestor has a full stack approach and focuses on weekday lunches for office workers.Nestors product offering is quite simple. Every day, the startup puts up a different meal with a starter, an entre and a dessert for 15 (roughly $16.5). Like PopChef, Nestor cooks everything in-house and delivers hot meals. And thats it, you cant choose your entre, you cant say no to the dessert.Keeping things simple has a clear advantage. Ive ordered from Nestor a few times already, and its clear that it solves many logistical issues. On average, Nestor delivers meals in 13 minutes.Every day, Nestor delivers 1,000 meals and is growing by 15 percent per week. Ive heard about companies that rely mostly on Nestor for lunch every day. Theres one big caveat, if youre vegetarian, youre out of luck.And yet, Nestor is still quite restrictive when it comes to its delivery area. If you dont work in the west part of Paris, you cant order from Nestor just yet. The good news is that Nestor is opening up deliveries in La Dfense, the large business district with hundreds of thousands of workers. Now lets see if the startup can scale its offering if Nestor becomes popular over there.There are a few advantages when a startup chooses to cook everything itself. While Nestor doesnt really compete with Frichti directly, everything I wrote about Frichtis full-stack approach still holds true for Nestor.Food delivery startups operating in Paris, like Deliveroo, Foodora and Take Eat Easy, need to make sure that restaurants can generate margins using their services. Like in other industries, managing every level of the stack lets you bring the prices down or generate significant margins. Nestor, Frichti, Le Zeste, PopChef and FoodChri each operate one big cooking and delivery service.A full-stack approach is also better when it comes to branding. Nestor isnt just a delivery startup. Youre eating something from Nestor. Whether you like or hate what youre eating, its going to be Nestors responsibility. The startup owns the experience.