Nest users who depend on their connected products to monitor their homes experienced a hiccup in connectivity Saturday that left users scrambling to figure out what was happening.In the absence of any initialdetailsfrom Nest, many users flocked to Twitter to vent their frustrations with the companys products, andalso reflect on the risks inherent to trusting connected devices with sensitive tasks like monitoring children.since @nest is down, can someone from @google please come and tell me when my toddler wakes up? Jonathan Aisenberg (@JonnyAis) January 9, 2016Hard to rely on @nestsupport as a baby monitor when the service is down so frequently. @nest expect more from a @google company. Jace Cole (@jacecole) January 9, 2016Looks like @nest is down. Shouldn't there be a local network solution if their servers are down? Unusable $200 cameras is weak. Lynn Collette (@sfposhy) January 9, 2016Users were reportedly unable to log into the mobileor web apps at all, withmany users reportingseveral hours of outages on Saturday afternoon affecting the use of their smoke alarms, thermostats and camera monitoring systems.This outage follows a software bug in Nest thermostats that Gizmodo reported yesterday had left thermostat batteries drained (leading to devices shutting off) for many Nest users. Both of these service interruptionscame at a pretty inopportune time for Nest thermostat owners asa good chunk of the United States has beenexperiencing some pretty frigid temperatures.Sick on my couch and the house is 60 because @nest decided not to work today. Anyone else having problems? #nest Nikki (@meepmeepnikki) January 6, 2016A representative from Nest confirmed to me that services had indeed been interrupted Saturday but that all login access has since been fixed.Were experiencing an issue with the Nest web and mobile apps and are investigating the problem. More details to come soon. Nest Support (@nestsupport) January 9, 2016The issue affecting the Nest web and mobile apps is now fixed. If you still need assistance, please contact us: https://t.co/GwtLp1ckzi Nest Support (@nestsupport) January 10, 2016