A new report released today shows the continued domination Netflix has on North American Internet traffic patterns. According to broadband networking company Sandvine, which periodically releases its findings on web usage, Netflix now accounts for 36.5 percent of downstream traffic on fixed networks during peak evening hours, which is up from the 34.9 percent reported in the second half of 2014 . In addition, the studyfound that HBO is also seeing some growth, thanks in part to the launch of its new, over-the-top streaming service HBO NOW and the popularity of itsGame of Thrones program in particular.During the season five premiere of Game of Thrones, HBOs two streaming properties, HBO GO and HBO NOW, accounted for 4.1 percent of traffic on one U.S. fixed network  an increase of over 300 percent of their average levels. (HBO GO is the streaming service offered to pay TV subscribers, while HBO NOW is the recently launched standalone service designed to appeal to cord cutters.)Before the launch of HBO NOW, HBO GO only accounted for 1 percent of downstream traffic in the North American region, an earlier report stated. But as of todays report, HBO GO accounts for 3.7 percent of HBOs traffic share while HBO NOW only accounts for0.7 percent of peak downstream traffic. Sandvine says this doesnt mean that HBO NOWs impact is minimal, but is rather related to the recency of its launch and its still-limited access. (Its only available via Apple products and select cable providers, like Cablevision).Its important to note, however, that Sandvine is measuring HBO traffic only on one network during a Sunday broadcast, which is a bigger traffic day for HBO. In other words, the data on HBOs traffic growth is preliminary  Sandvine says a full report on HBO is expected later this year.Of course, HBOs Game of Thrones has made headlines for being one of themost pirated television shows ever, even breaking recordsfurther into its fifthseason this year asthe sixth episode sawas many has 3.5 million users downloading the showon peer-to-peer file sharing sites.However, Sandvine notes that overall BitTorrent (file-sharing) traffic is declining, and today only accounts for 6.3 percent of total traffic in North America and 8.5 percent of Latin American traffic.Other streaming video services are also seeing more modest increases. For example, Amazon Instant Video still only holds a fraction of the bandwidth when compared with Netflix, but its traffic is growing. A year ago, the service had1.90 percent of peak downstream traffic  now its at 1.97 percent.Elsewhere, YouTube still has a sizable traffic share with 15.56 percent of peak downstream traffic. Hulu accounts for 1.91 percent of peak downstream traffic, and newly launched over-the-top cable service Sling TV accounts for less than 1 percent. However, Sandvine notes that Slingsservice launched only a month before data was collected, so it may be too soon to truly understand its potential impact.On mobile networks, Sandvine found that Latin Americas mobile traffic is now increasingly controlled by just two companies: Facebook and Google. Combined, these two companies various properties, includingFacebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, YouTube, Google Play, and more, account for more than 60 percent of mobile traffic.Across North America, real-time entertainment is the most popular mobile traffic category with social networking apps coming in second. YouTube is also popular on mobile, with 21.2 percent of peak downstream traffic up from 17.7 percent in the first half of 2104.Facebooks traffic share has been increasing over the past 18 months as well, thanks to the addition of auto-playing videos which caused an average of 60 percent more Facebook consumption per user.