Netflix confirmed this morning the existence of what appeared to be a newAndroid beta testing program, but says it did not intend to make it available to consumers via Google Play. In addition, the company tells us that features in the beta app should not be taken as indication of those planned for forthcoming releases. That said, some testershadreported seeing the option for a Mobile Data Saver setting on their devices after joining. This was mistakenly reported to be a feature of the Netflix beta, but its actually a bucket test ahead of a broader iOS and Android launch.The data saver mode was earlierannounced at Mobile World Congress 2016 as a forthcoming update that will launchonboth the iOS and Android applications sometime this year. Reporters at MWC were allowed to preview the feature and take screenshots of it in action. Several users today say theyvealreadyspotted the optionfor a data saver mode appearing on their deviceswhile streaming.However, Netflix tells us that the feature has not been publicly released on either Android or iOS, nor has the company announced when that will take place. Those who saw the option were a part of a test unrelated to the beta.The current, official release of the Android application only lets you choose whether streaming is limited to whether youre on Wi-Fi or not, under the Video Playback options. There is no toggle for Mobile Data Saver in this section in the public release.However, seeing the feature pop up in the wild is promising in terms of a public release in the near term, as bucket tests tend to precedealarger rollout.In case you missed the news from MWC, theMobile Data Saving feature is able to work out the best, most economical bandwidth and will allow users to reduce the video quality below full HD 1080p. Theres also a second button to allow HD to give you more control over your minimum quality levels for your streams, Netflix had told reporters.For users with limited mobile data plans, this would obviously be a big benefit, as it would allow them to watch more of Netflixs shows and movies without worrying about going over their limits and then getting caught with a larger monthly bill.The beta program was first spotted by the blogAndroid Police. Initially, the blog said the data saver option was new in the beta, but has since corrected that statement as some readers told them they already had the feature on their device.Netflix said that the link for the beta program should be down, but its not sending users to a dead website. Instead, the message that appears simply says that the testing program has enough testers and isnt accepting more sign-ups.It wouldnt have been surprising to see Netflix running a beta program for consumers, so its understandable why some believed that to be the case. Today, anumber of other major tech companies, including Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Twitter, Microsoft, and others, offer ways for early adopters to try out new features not yet released to the public by optionally installing a beta build of their applications.