Netflix is ready to become a home for feature films, giving the industry a new outlet for movie production in an era of decliningticket sales  a trend that has led to a large influx of what studios believe will be sure-fire hits, like remakes and sequels. The first film out of the gate is indicative of the kind of film that could potentially be a critical favorite, but may not have otherwise seen mainstream success. With Cary Fukunagas (True Detective) Beasts of No Nation, releasing on October 16 on Netflix, and starringIdris Elba, the film tellsthe story ofa child soldier torn from his family during a civil war in an African nation.Based on a book by Nigerian authorUzodinma Iweala, the film will also be released to select U.S. theaters on the same day it appears on Netflix, allowing it to qualify for industry awards. For movieslike this where the audience is uncertain, the Netflix model means producers get a guaranteed paycheck, regardless of cinema ticket sales, and the film can still benefit from critical praiseand any subsequent awards it earns.Following Beasts of No Nation, Netflix says it will release the first of fourAdam Sandler films with the launch of The Ridiculous Six on December 11, 2015. While Sandler can still churn out hits, his film releasesare hit-or-miss. For every box office winner, there are a couple of bombs. However, asDVD and video-on-demand releases, Sandler movies do well. That means theyll likely work for Netflixs viewer base, too.In addition, Netflix will release Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon: The Green Legend, a sequel to the 2000 Oscar winner, theatrically in China and on IMAX and on Netflix globally in Q1 2016. Latercomes Pee-wees Big Holiday, which arrives on Netflix in March 2016. (More details on the movies themselves are here on Netflixs site).Though these are the only titles and dates being announced today by the streaming video service, they arent its only big wins as of late. Notably, Netflix recently scored the distribution rights to War Machine, a David Michod-directed drama starring Brad Bitt as a U.S. military general. That film is likely Netflixs largest by budget to date  the company reportedly paid $60 million for the title, though earlier reports had claimed it was just $30 million.As TechCrunch previously reportedwhen news of Netflixs expansion into feature films first came out last fall, these film titles can help the streaming service build its brand with consumers. Peoplemay come tosee Netflix as the only place to watch certain movies, similar to how Netflixbenefits from serving as the home to popular original TV shows like House of Cards, Orange is the New Black, and Arrested Development, for example.Netflix, whichhas now topped62 million viewers globally, has been investing heavily in original programming, including new shows likeUnbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, Bloodline, and others. The companys investment inoriginals is eating further into its content budget as of late, too  as noted during its recent earnings, the companys obligations now total $9.8 billion, up 30 percent over last year.