Its been years in the making, but Netflix has finally pivoted to a premium channel for the web. It started as a DVD subscription service and evolved into a Spotify for movies. But now that Netflix is available everywhere around the world, it is just like HBO without a cable channel.If youve been following Netflix over the past few years, the company started making tiny steps into original content with blockbuster successes, such as House of Cards and Orange Is the New Black. But it wasnt a way to compensate for the fact that content deals were getting too expensive.If you read Netflixs global expansion announcement, the company isnt saying that people living in Uruguay and Vietnam are going to be able to watch 20th Century Fox movies. Its all about Netflix original content. Other movies and TV shows are just an afterthought.For one monthly price, members around the world will be able to enjoy Netflix original series including Marvels Daredevil and Marvels Jessica Jones, Narcos, Sense8, Grace and Frankie, and Marco Polo, as well as a catalog of licensed TV shows and movies.There are a few things worth noting about the companys global expansion. First, its much easier to negotiate content deals in bulk for movies and TV shows that werent already distributed in some countries. Mubi has been taking advantage of this, and Netflix is now using the same strategy.Second, Netflix doesnt even care that much about these deals. Sure, being able to stream Back to the Future whenever you want sounds great, but its just a way to get more subscribers on board.If you live in the U.S., chances are you first subscribed to Netflix by thinking that youd be able to stream countless movies. And now, you only watch Netflix original content on Netflix. And this is exactly what Netflix wants.Sure, House of Cards works great in the U.S., but its a damn good show even if you dont read about American politics in your newspaper. Now, billions of people can watch Jessica Jones, House of Cards, Master of None, Daredevil, Orange is the New Black and countless others.In 2016 alone, Netflix is going to release 31 new and returning TV shows, dozens of documentaries, movies and kid series. So its clear now. Original content isnt something that is nice to have for Netflix, its key to Netflixs value proposition.Its worth noting that some shows are missing in some countries, such as House of Cards in France and Germany bought the international distribution rights before Netflix expanded to Europe (Canal+ in France, Sky Deutschland in Germany).But Im sure that Netflix is going to keep the global distribution rights for any future show. The only thing separating HBO from Netflix is that Netflix is a delinearized channel and that it is available around the world.And its clear that delinearization is the future as HBO is betting heavily on its standalone streaming service HBO Now. The goal is to become HBO faster than HBO can become us, Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos told GQ in 2013. Its safe to say that Netflix is now HBO, but bigger and global.