Netflix has begun blocking some users of VPN services, following the companys global expansion earlier this month, and subsequent promises that it would begin to crack down on those customers using VPN software to access content not licensed in their region. According to a Melbourne-based VPN provider, uFlix, some users started tosee an error message when they tried to stream non-Australian content on Netflix using the companys unblocker service.The message read:You seem to be using an unblocker or proxy. Please turn off any of these services and try again.According to uFlixs message to users, not all of its customers were affected. However, the company suggested that may change in time, saying though it is only affecting a few users at the moment, we expect this number to grow.Of course, many assumed that Netflixs statements regardingits plans to begin blocking VPNs were more for show  that is, they were meant to appease broadcasters who were already concerned about the companys inability to enforce the geographical licensing restrictions on Netflixs content across regions.And with Netflixs expansion to 130 more countries, bringing its total reach to 190 countries worldwide, the expectation was that more users would turn to VPNs in order to access Netflixscontent libraries not currently available in their own country.In addition, at this years CES event in Las Vegas, Netflixs Chief Product Officer Neil Hunt explained that while Netflix does applyindustry standard technologies to limit the use of proxies, going after these VPN providers is likely to always be a cat-and-mouse game.He even added that it was fairly easy for these providers to evade Netflixs blocks.[We] continue to rely on blacklists of VPN exit points maintained by companies that make it their job. Once [VPN providers] are on the blacklist, its trivial for them to move to a new IP address and evade, said Hunt, at the time.Netflix later tried to correct these statements, noting vaguely by way of a blog post that it would, in the coming weeks, begin to clamp down on the use of unblockers and proxies.those using proxies and unblockers will only be able to access the service in the country where they currently are. We are confident this change wont impact members not using proxies, read the post, written by Netflixs VP of Content Delivery Architecture, David Fullagar.As of today, it seems that Netflixs attempts to block uFlix may have been futile after all, though. The VPN provider said it was working on a solution that would get around these new measures, and now reports that a fix is already in place, only days later.In fact, the company said it had developed a fix by January 20  only a day after announcing the problem to its users  but needed to put an additional measure in place before rolling it out.Hi everyone! The new fix is in place. Please test it out. If anyone gets proxy/vpn error issues, please submit a ticket immediately. Thanks! uFlix (@uFlixDNS) January 21, 2016That indicates that while Netflix may be trying to make good on its plans to crack down on VPN usage, it will ultimately remain a game of whack-a-mole. That is, Netflix may be able to temporarily disrupt services like uFlix, but dedicated proxy providers will quicklyfind a workaround.