Netflix wants you to know how fast your internet connection is, and has today launched a new website, Fast.com, that will give you that information. Basically, its a simplified speed test website that only focuses on download speed  as this is the metric that determines your video quality. The goal with the site is to help you figure out whosto blame when you have a problem with your Netflix connection. It might not be Netflixs fault, but rather your ISP slowing things down.The site itself is very basic. When you launch the webpage, it immediately begins running a test. Theres nothing to even click. The numbers increment in gray while the test is underway then become a solid black when it completes.Unlike other speed test sites on the web, Netflixs site is not littered with ads to mar the experience.On the site, youcan also click a link that lets you compare yourspeed to Speedtest.net. Arguably, there are other websites that are better forthose who truly want to understand their connection speeds, as they canprovide the ability to select a server, as well as view download and upload speeds, pings, and more.Of course, manymainstream consumers wontknow if the numbers Netflixs Fast.com displays are good or bad. They may not even remember what internet package they had signed up for with their ISP. And the new site makes no attempt at helping you determine if your connection is slower than normal.Presumably, however, if youre visiting the site to determine if theres a problem, youre prepared to take the issue to your ISP after completing the test.Or at least, thats what Netflix hopes. According to the FAQ, the company saysthat if consumers arent getting the speed theyre paying for, you canask your ISP about the results.Another difference between Fast.com and general purpose speed test websites is that ittests downloads from Netflixs servers. It also works on web, tablet, phone, or even smart TVs that have a browser.As Netflixs user base and usage have increased over the years, the company has worked to keep ISPs competitive and honest with regard to their promised connection speeds. Already, the company maintains anISP Speed Index, which ranks ISPs around the world based on their performance.However, Netflixs Fast.com is different from this Speed Index, the company notes. While the Index measuresaverage monthly speeds of actual Netflix streams during prime time hours, Fast.com will measure a users personal internet connection at any time.Speed is critical for maintaining a good quality of service, which is why these sorts of tools are important to the company. In addition to Fast.com, Netflix also recently debuted cellular data control tools that let consumers configure how much data Netflixs mobile app uses.Fast.com is live now, and available to anyone worldwide. Even non-Netflix members can use the site.