If you have ever attended a TechCrunch Disrupt, you know the energy and excitement on the exhibit floor. Hundreds of entrepreneurs stand by their tables, and everywhere people are engaged in intense conversation. Most attendees let serendipity be their guide through the ranks of startups, but we recognize that some folks prefer a more targeted approach, especially as Disrupt gets bigger.This year at TechCrunch Disrupt NY (May 9-11)we are taking two big steps forward to help attendees zero in on the people and companies they hope to find.The first is our mobile app, which is designedto help registered Disrupt attendees find and connect with one another at the show. The app lists everyone attending, including Startup Alley exhibitors, Startup Battlefield contestants, investors, sponsors, speakers, and media (including TechCrunch staff). An in-app messaging service makes it easy to reach out and request a meeting. The app also contains the show agenda and video playback of any sessions you might have missed while you were going deep with a new contact. The Disrupt app launches in mid-April, a month before the show, so anyone who registers early can get started networking.Second, we are launching the beta of a program called CrunchMatch, which is designed to introduce investors to entrepreneurs, based on curated analysis of which startups fit with a given investors profile. We tried the idea on a small scale at our London Disrupt last December, where it worked well, and in New York this May were scaling that up. The goal is to improve the odds that investors and entrepreneurs make a super promising contact. The program is free for Disrupt attendees.Here is how it works: When an investor registers for Disrupt, they receive an invitation to fill out a questionnaire about their investment interests. Startups participating in Disrupts Startup Alley and Battlefield fill out a similar form. When the TechCrunch events team finds strong matches, they will propose that the parties connect at Disrupt at a time and in a private space arranged by the events team. To participate, sign up for Disrupt today. Questions? E-mail startupalley@techcrunch.comAnd dont forget  just hanging out is always a fun way to make new friends and contacts. In addition to three days of thought-provoking interviews on stage, the Battlefield competition, and the Startup Alley exhibits, there will be awesome after-parties on Monday and Tuesday nights in the city.See you at Disrupt!Disrupt NYwill take place in Brooklyn for the first time ever this year on May 9-11, 2016. Well be rightacross the river from Manhattan in Red Hook, at the Brooklyn Cruise Ship terminal.In addition to onstage panel sessions and fireside chats, Disrupt NY will also feature Startup Battlefield and Startup Alley.Startup Battlefieldcompetitors pitch their companies live and onstage to innovators, investors and influencers in the tech community. TechCrunch identifies emerging companies to demo and compete for a prize of $50,000and the coveted Disrupt Cup, which was previously won by Mint.com, Yammer, Fitbit and Dropbox, among others.Startup Alley offers another way for early-stage companies to gain exposure with a setup that encourages both exhibiting and networking, and provides high visibility. You can grab Startup Alley tickets here.Additional speakers and agenda details will be announced between now and the show. Stay tuned!TechCrunchDisrupt NY is one of the most anticipated technology conferences of the year and we expect around 3,000 attendees.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.