Tesla finally unveiled its Model 3 today. The $35,000 car drew a staggering 150,000-plus orders  $115 million in deposits and $4 billion in potential sales  before it had even been unveiled, but another interesting point to note is that it will be Teslas first to be sold in India, Brazil and other notable international markets.The company just massively increased its potential sales by adding pre-orders in India (population 1.25 billion), Brazil (200 million), in addition toSouth Africa, South Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, Ireland and potentially others. I say potentially others because the expansion is based on a tweet from CEO Elon Musk  given Twitters 140 character limit, there could be more countries that Musk wasnt able to fit into his message. (Weve checked in with Tesla to ask exactly which new countries it will sell in.)Adding several more countries to Model 3 order page tonight. Check for details, but will include India, Brazil, SA, SK, NZ, Sing & Ireland. Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 31, 2016In line with that, Musk also said that Tesla will more double its number of stores to coverover 440 locations across North America, Europe and Asiaby the end of 2017.The Model 3 will beTeslas most affordable car  indeed the deposit is just $1,000  so it willbe fascinating to see how it is receivedin price sensitive markets like India and Brazil that have huge populations.Since the car wont go into production until next year, theres no instant answer and theres a small window for other automakers to introduce competition. As with any electric car, Teslas temperedby its charging infrastructure in each country  you dont buy an electric car iffinding places to charge it will be problematic  so the company will need to work on addingenoughstations in these new countries, too.Theres no clear date for when the vehicle will be available in new markets. In a blog post earlier this month, Tesla said that, once the car is ready, it would begin fulfilling orders in the U.S. first, before moving on to Europe before tackling other regions.It is not possible to ship to all regions simultaneously because regulators in each part of the world have slightly different production requirements. Staggering deliveries in this way also allows us to provide the best possible customer experience, the company explained.
