Tinders Rewind functionality just went live, finally giving users the ability to go back in time and swipe right instead of left.The Rewind feature is included in the premium tier of the service, Tinder Plus, which was unveiled today and costs anywhere between $9.99 and $19.99 in the United States, depending on the age of the user. Thats right. Tinder Plus costs $19.99 for users older than 30, while it costs just $9.99 for folks who are younger than 30.However, in the TechCrunch office weve seen Tinder Plus offered at the price of $14.99/month for a 30+ female user. Weve reached out to Tinder to get a clearer picture of the Tinder Plus pricing structure and will update as soon as we know more.For now, however, we do know that pricing not only ranges based on age but by location. Users in emerging countries (Tinder is currently available in 140 countries across the globe) will pay as little as $2.99/month, while users older than 28 in developed markets like the UK will be paying approximately $23/month (and nearly 4x as much as their over 28-year-old counterparts).Tinder has been testing pricing in various markets for the past few months, but even without the complete information, its easy to get an idea of the general landscape here. Older users, who theoretically have less supply and offer less demand, should pay a greater amount for extra dating tools. Plus, they likely make more money than younger users.Its Ubers Surge pricing model applied to romantic endeavors.Tinder Plus also includes Passport, which allows users to search for matches anywhere in the world through the drop of a pin, as opposed to being locked into your current location.Tinder Plus also allows users to buy themselves out of advertisements, though Tinder has yet to launch any ad products just yet. Sources say that the ad product will launch later this month, butits unclear what exactly those ads will look like.As for the features launching today, they make a lot of sense given the current user behavior on Tinder. Rewind, in particular, appeals to just about anyone who has swiped left when they meant to swipe right.The company has seen over 6 billion matches in total, though its hard to say how many of those matches become anything. Thats not necessarily a bad thing for Tinder. The point is that it has become an addiction, with people mindlessly flipping through potential suitors and swiping based on a gut reaction.Its only natural to accidentally swipe left when you meant to swipe right, and when the stakes can feel as high as potentially throwing away your next boyfriend or girlfriend, the question isnt whether or not people will pay but simply how much.Other features like Passport appeal to a more engaged user, one who has gotten good at making Tinder work for them and could use the added functionality while traveling. You know, to plan ahead.If you want to check out Tinder Plus, you can see a CNN interview with CEO Sean Rad right here or visit the Tinder blog for more information.