Former Twitter CEO Dick Costolo, who stepped awayfrom the big blue bird last June, has a new health and fitnessplatform startup in the works, focused on motivating peopleto makelifestyle improvements bydrawing on the expertise of a range ofwellness professionalsto provide inspiring guidance.Thats not all. Costolo has also signed up to being a VC  joining Index Ventures as a partner, investing in new startups and working with existing Index portfolio companies. So new year, two new jobs for @DickCWe asked Index if its an investor in its new employee, Costolos, own new venture but the firm declined to comment. So we can but speculate. Still, with investor friends like those fundraising surely isnt going to be this startups biggest pain pointThe former comedianrevealed the tidbids of personal newsin a couple oftweetsearlier this morning  managing to just miss the sporadic service outages his former employee has been suffering today. And stuffing way more than 140 characters into a few tweets thanks to the old screenshot trick (no need to wait for those10,000 word tweets,then).Were building a new software platform that reimagines the path to personal fitness. This platform will go beyond measurement to motivate and drive improvement and make the road to personal transformation fun and social. For wellness professionals, from fitness coaches to doctors and nutritionists and more, our platform will be the easiest and most flexible way to extend expertise and guidance by orders of magnitude, the tweeted text about thenew startupreads.His co-founder for the fitness startup is Bryan Oki  a former crossfit coach who brings plenty of relevant industry experience, having also previouslyfounded and led a health and wellness consultancy, Fitify.The fitness industry is transitioning to a world of specialized studios and programs with a multitude of connected devices and software trackers. Weve developed a system that works within this evolving landscape, and we believe we can scale this system with technology and deliver it to a massive audience. A lot more to say as we continue to build out whats working so well in our proof-of-concepts, Costolos tweet adds.Asked via Twitter whether the fitness platform would work with a particular indoor cycling workout called Soul Cycle, Costolo said yes but added that its not about creating a niche solution noting: Its a platform for everyone.Given the proliferation of fitness trackers and healthquantification measuresin recent yearstheres no shortageof raw material for consumers to pull in pertaining to their personal wellness. Yetthat growing volume of data arguably creates achallengefor thosewanting tointelligentlynavigate the various signals its possible toacquire  rather than just doing something super basic, like counting a dailynumber of steps.So perhaps Costolos platformaims totacklethechallenge of intelligently interpreting a range of wellness signalsin away thatmaximizes theirutility and effectiveness, and also amps up themotivational potential(hello social features) ofusingdevices and servicestoachieve fitnesslifestylegoals. But lets wait and see.