A forthcomingfeature arriving in the next version of Apples iOS operating system, iOS 8.3, could make it easier for developers of free applications to acquire new users. Thanks to a new optionfound under the iTunes & App Store section with the iOS Settings application, iOS device ownerswill be able to disable the password requirement for free apps and other downloads. That means theyll be able to just tap the Get button on iTunes to send the app to their device, no password necessary.This is a relatively small change, but for mobile app developers, it could be a significant advantage.For many iPhone and iPad users, downloading new mobile applications is not a frequent activity. In fact, studies have shown that, despite the popularity of smartphones and other mobile devices, most users download zero apps per month. Instead, the top 7 percent of smartphone owners account for nearly half of all the download activity in a given month, comScore has said in the past.In other words, there are thosewho regularly download apps, and there are those who only download new apps once anappreaches the status of being a must have. For this latter group of users, they seem to be relatively content to use their phone as is, after the initial setup is complete and their preferred apps are installed.As to why that thats the case isless clear. It could be due to the difficulties in discoveringnew apps on todays App Store, or it could that many just dont feel the need to try new apps on a regular basis once they have their phone set up with the basics. But to some extent, peoplesdecision to refrain from trying new appscould also be due to simple technical hurdles  like not being able to remember their Apple account information. They may then giveup on downloads they would have otherwise been interested in, after beingunable to authenticate with iTunes.The setting, which was first spotted by 9to5Mac following a reader tip, was currently disabled on devices running the iOS 8.3 beta, but it should go live when the updating operating system is released publicly. Of course, thingscan change between then and now, but its interesting at least that Apple has considered how to address this challenge.The company, in the past, had allowed users to download applications for free without requiring a password, the post notes, but it later changed that behavior much to some users frustration.Also worth noting: this setting only pops up when Touch ID is disabled on the device, which is clearly still Apples preferred methodfor making downloads easier while remaining secure.In addition, the password requirement remains for paid applications, as theres not an option to disable the setting for all types of downloads. And it works for other iTunes content, too, including music, books, movies and more.Image credit: 9to5Mac.com