Today, the WSJ reported that the NFLs video test with Facebook ended quietly earlier this year. The publication also referred to it as a partnership, a term that is used very loosely in business, especially here in the Valley. But hey, maybe Facebook decided to end the thing (weve asked Facebook and will update if we hear back).The test involved promoting Verizon-sponsored, NFL-related clips within peoples news feeds with post-roll ads.Were guessing it didnt work, otherwise it would have turned into an actual deal.Speaking of deals, Twitter just re-upped with the NFL for another two years.Excited to announce a new multi-year deal with the @NFL to bring more real-time video highlights to fans everywhere. http://t.co/tcVts9V56r Twitter Amplify (@TwitterAmplify) August 10, 2015With the NFL regular season coming fast, this is a big win for Twitter and a big loss for Facebook.Of course the NFL is trying to figure out the best place to spend its time and dollars, and the Vine + Twitter (and eventually Periscope) experience seems to be the best match. I mean, the NFL is trusting Twitter with the lead on ad sales for the duration of the deal. Theres trust there.However, the NFL isnt dumb enough to put all of its eggs into one basket, but the Facebook basket appears to have not done enough to move any needles. Thats not a good sign for Facebook.As a sports fan, and user of both services, Im not surprised. It seems like Twitter is the perfect place for all aspects of sporting events, including video. Maybe the NFL (or Facebook) agreed? It makes sense that the NFL would be testing and using all platforms to promote its business, and they are, including Snapchat and YouTube.When it comes to video ads on these social platforms, everyone has to go back to the drawing board as far as Im concerned. When Im on Twitter and tap a 20-second video to watch, seeing a 7-second pre-roll advertisement is ridiculous. In fact, I close them when I see the ad spin up.The NFL season starts on September 10, and Ill save you the time if youre wonderingthe Eagles are going to win it all.