Nickelodeon today unveiled its new mobile streaming subscription service called Noggin, which will be aimed at preschoolers and priced at $5.99 per month when it launches next month. Parent company Viacom had previously announced the forthcoming services arrival in January, noting also that it would not require households to havea cable or satellite TV subscription in order to access its content.Nickelodeon says thats its also in discussions with distributors about making Noggin available to authenticated pay TV subscribers as a premium complement.The service will first arrive as a mobile application for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch beginning on March 5, the company says.Details of the service were introduced at Nickelodeons annual upfront presentation today, where the company confirmed some of the initial content Noggin will include. Several of its current kids shows such as Blues Clues, Little Bear and Ni Hao, Kai-lan will be available at launch, as will animations featuring Nicks preschool characters Moose and Zee who pop up in between TV showson Nicks TV channel, offering short-form educational games that help kids learn letters, shapes, matching and more.The company says that the streaming service will offerother long and short-form content, too, including titles like Allegras Window, Blues Room, Franklin and Friends, Gullah Gullah Island, Miss Spiders Sunny Patch Friends, Oswald, Pocoyo, Robot and Monster and The Upside Down Show.If some of those showsdont ring a bell  even though youre a parent of a preschooler  its because theyre not among some of Nick Jrs morepopular programs, like Dora, Bubble Guppies, Umizoomi, Wallykazam!, or PAW Patrol. None of those top showsseem to be included in this newover-the-top subscription option.Instead, it sounds like Nick wants to have the best of both worlds  it wants to keep current distributors happy while also tapping into the potential for additional revenue streams by targeting cord cutters with a paid mobile service. In fact, the company statesthat Noggins library will remain separate and distinct from Nickelodeons preschool content on its existing distribution platforms.Or, in other words, the good stuff is elsewhere. Hopefully kids arent too picky about their favorite characters.Meanwhile, the current Nick Jr. mobile app will remain intact following Noggins launch. This app is a TV Everywhere platform that offers both a live feed of current Nick Jr. TV shows and on-demand episodes available to pay TV subscribers. Its also where youll find the networksmost watched and most loved preschoolershows.