
Jake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.The African subsidiary of Swiss media and e-commerce company Ringierhas acquired Nigerian online shopping startup DealDey for an undisclosed amount.Ringier Africa Deals Group, a joint venture between Swiss Ringier Africa AG and South African Silvertree Internet Holdings Ltd., announced thedeal today.The digital retail startup Dealdey  a Groupon-like startup  previously raised at least$1 million from the Swedish investment firm Kinnevik in 2011.Kinnevik followed that with $5 millionin series B financing in 2015. No equity percentage was given for either round so its not possible to extrapolate the valuation DealDey may have put forward for the Ringier Africa acquisition.DealDey is one of a handful of players in Nigerias very fluid e-commerce space. The digital shopping site aggregates daily online discounts on popular goods and services. It brands itself as Sub-Saharan Africas largest online deals platform, naming over 1 million users, 15,000 active merchants, and 20,000 verified listed businesses. Alexa ranks the DealDay at 41 in Nigeria.On a call, Ringiers Leonard Stiegeler named the acquisition as part of an expanding Africa strategy to invest fully in four verticals within Africa: classifieds, content, digital marketing, and e-commerce.The deal buys Ringier a platform to tap Africas expanding consumer markets through DealDeys existing online shopping network. The acquisition also follows the recent global investment in e-commerce company Africa Internet Group, which reached a $1 billion valuation after a $326 million round including Goldman Sachs and AXA Insurance.These plays are largely motivated by the value proposition shaping up for digital commerce in Africa.The continents consumer spending is estimated to exceed $1.4 trillion annually by 2020$400 million of that is already occurring in Nigeria, estimates McKinseys Global Institute.African e-commerce will generate some $75 billion in revenue by 2025, says McKinsey. This is contingent on core African economies improving profiles for power generation, broadband connectivity, and transportation infrastructure.Ringier Africa Deals Group, already have a strong foothold in e-commerce across the continent. Their holdingsinclude investments in online shopping sites in Kenya (Rupu), Ghana (Tisu), and South Africa (PriceCheck).Ringier Africa GM Stiegeler views NigeriaAfrica most populous nation and largest economyas an important online shopping space for the new Africa Deals Group. He also thinks the acquisition Ringier can position DealDey to go head to head with Nigerias big online retailers, such as Konga andJumia.The country is an important entry market for e-commerce and there are significant players, he said. We really believe the deals model that relies more on local merchants and offers both goods and services can differentiate itself from the Amazon models that Jumia and Konga are running.