Voicemail is so last century. The idea of phoning someone then leaving a rambling message when they dont pick up seems decidedly antiquated in the age of instant connectivity, where friends, family, colleagues and others can be easily reached with a text. Voicemail is so over, in fact, that large corporations like JP Morganand Coca-Cola have ditched the service entirely. If only consumers had the same option.Well, thanks to a new app simply called No More Voicemail,they now do.Available for both iOS and Android devices, No More Voicemailis a clever solution to the voicemail problem.Today, if you want to actually deactivate voicemail, you would have to contact your carrier and explain that you dont want the service. Thats a hassle in and of itself. And if you ever want to turn voicemail back on for any reason, youd have to call the carrieragain to re-enable it.No More Voicemail offers a different solution. The app isnt actually disabling voicemail per the carrier  it only seems like it is. Instead, No More Voicemailuses the conditional call forwarding feature on your phone to send your unanswered calls to a virtual number that will just ring and ring.This is the same concept thats used today in other legitthird-party voicemail apps like YouMail or Google Voice, expect it ditches the idea of offering a hosted voicemail system.Calls wont be shuffled off to No More Voicemailsthird-party system until you reject or ignore the call. That means youre able to pick up calls normally when you have time to talk.But if you choose to not take a call, the callers will just hear the phone ring forever, the company claims.Eventually, callers shouldget tired of waiting for voicemail to pick up and will hang up. (Then hopefully text you instead!)The process of setting up No More Voicemail is straightforward. Youre provided an activation code to copy and paste into your phones dialer, which you then callto make the necessary changes.In practice, I found that this process failed the first time I triedit, then succeeded on the second go-round. When testing this further, I declined an incoming call, but found that the phone didnt ring indefinitely as promised, but rather rang a bit then automatically disconnected the call.Sadly, thats far fromperfect.But even if its a little buggy, it did prevent my voicemail from picking up and taking the call on my behalf. And Im hopefulthesekinks willget worked out over time.(Im using an iPhone 6s running a beta build of iOS on T-Mobile, so its possible that Im not the best test subject, I should point out. Your mileage may vary!)Disabling No More Voicemail uses a similar process as activating the service. This worked as advertised in tests.The appis the latest creation from TelTech Systems, a company that has released a number of telecommunications apps over the years. Its probably best known for TrapCall, a service released in 2009 that unmaskedCaller ID on blocked incoming calls, or its earlierSpoofCard Caller ID spoofing service.We think voicemail is a thing of the past and that it just makes life a little easier to never have to worry about checking and returning voicemails, explains TelTech partner on Special Projects, Nate Kapitanski. If its important, people will text you or message you on one of the various messaging apps, he says.No More Voicemail is supported on all the major carriers at launch, including AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile, Sprint and US Cellular. The app isa free download on the iTunes App Store and Google Play.