NoBroker, a peer-to-peer property listings startup that wants to ridbrokers from the rental process in India, has closed a $3million Series A round to expand its service to more citiesbeyond Bombay and Bangalore.SAIF Partners andFulcrum Ventures participated in the round. The startup last year raised an undisclosed seed round fromSaurabh Garg, an angel investor who co-founded the Four Fountains Spa chain.The Bangalore-based startup wants to simplify the process of renting properties. It believes that a peer-to-peer model, facilitated by its site, can slice out property brokers  the kingpins who control rental deals and take a large slice of commission for matching landlord and tenant.While it is true to say that the internet has become an important way for tenants to findnew leases more easily, NoBrokerco-founder andCEO Amit Agarwal believes that it doesnt yet go far enough.We feel that a peer-to-peer chain has to happen, Agarwal, formerly with PWC and ANZ Bank, told TechCrunch in an interview. [Online property sites]have become a sort of advertising portal for brokers yes, you can find properties on your own, but youstill have to pay the broker, he will take his pound of flesh when you go there physically.Exactly how much are we talking about here?Typically, Agarwal said, a broker can pocket 18 percent of the total of an annualrental agreement via charges to both the tenant and home-owner. He conservatively estimates that puts the total rental brokerage market at around $4 billion annually in India  and around $200 billion globally.No where in the entire world, and in no otherindustries, is theresuch a high charge set against avalue-add thatis very, very low, he said.It isnt just about money. Agarwal recounted how hes used brokers in the past and been taken to the worst properties first, as a broker tries to shift the least popular inventory first. Most care about closing a deal, not the right deal, he added.In 2013, Agarwal and NoBroker co-founder and CTO Akhil Gupta reflected on their experiences renting in India and realized that the fundamental point is to move away from brokers altogether.NoBroker, their solution, was born that year. In addition to listingproperties for rental, they createdan algorithmthat Agarwal claimed can scour the internet to verify that each new sign-up is a prospective tenant and not a broker  many of whom tap into online rental sites to boost their business or grab new listings.Agarwal declined to go into precise detail of how the algorithm works, but he claims it is 99.9 percent effective.Weve found that those few who do get in arecaught by the community within an hour, he added.NoBroker began covering Bombayand recently expanded to Bangalore. In Bombay, Agarwal claimed, the company has 5,000 listed properties. That, he said, is more peer-based listings than even Indias top rental portals Housing.com, PropTiger and others  though these two have more overall (read broker-managed) listings at this point.There are around 100,000 flats in Bombay for rental at any given time, and maybe 8-10 percent are posted by owners. So we already have half of that marketshare, he explained.Rather than focusing on the big fish  Housing.com is backed by SoftBank, PropTiger counts NewsCorp as an investor  which also cover house sales and new developments, Agarwal said he believes that brokers are the startups main battle.Our competition is brokers, we need to give such ease of use to make [using NoBroker]as easy as using a broker, he added.Agarwal admitted that many people will use brokers because they are a safe option, particularly when it comes to legal documentation. For that reason, NoBroker provides users with a template to generate their own customized legal document for each rental. He claimed that even expatriated home-owners, for example those in the U.S., feel comfortable enough to use NoBroker over a broker, particularly when they can pocket significant cost savings doing so.The NoBroker founders believe that their formula has the potential to work overseas, but, for now, they are focused on the Indian market. They will use the funding to expand the services presence. Theres no immediate goal, but Agarwal said he is aiming to reach 20 cities in India in the next two years that target is likely torequire further funding in due course, he admitted.