After exiting the smartphone market dramatically by selling its mobile making division to Microsoft for $7.2 billionback in 2013, Nokia has hinted it is lookingto return to the phonebusiness by a different route  taking advantage of a clause in its sale agreement that allows it touse the Nokia brand on handsets again starting from this year.The company has a history of radical reinventions. But returning to a market whereit excelled for so long is something it views as an opportunity given the residual brand recognition of Nokia and handsets, CEO Rajeev Suri said today. Hewas speaking at a Nokia press and analyst briefing in Barcelona this evening, ahead of the Mobile World Congress trade show which kicks off tomorrow.Last summerSuri told a German magazineNokiaintends to find a licensing partner to design and build phonesthis year. He rowed back fromthat lineslightly today, saying the company is in no hurry to get its brand name back on handsets.It might happen in 2016 or it might be 2017, he said.Buthe also spoke at length about the opportunity Nokia sees to license its brand name to the right partner for phones.Asked by TechCrunch how its search for a suitable partner to create Nokia-branded smartphones is going, and when we might expect to see the Nokia brand back on handsets, Surisaid: Theres no specific timeframe. We dont need to be in a rush. We will explore this with the right partner or partners, depending on the case.We think its a good business model because the Nokia brand has great retention  the recognition of the brand is still very high in all the major markets. We also think that if there will be a product with the Nokia brand on it theres an opportunity for premium on that product  clear price premium, he added, suggesting that any future Nokia-branded handsetswill be going head-to-head with Apples iPhone and Android flagships from the likes of Samsung (which unboxed its latest pair of premium flagships just this evening).For us the business model is one of no traditional manufacturing, no channel or nothing we are just basically licensing our brand, the partner will have to pay us an IP license for it and royalty on the brand use, and we want to be in a position to design the devices in question with appropriate control measures should the partner not work to our standard, Suriadded. All thats in play. This takes time. We need to find the right partner.Would Nokia consider working with Foxconn as a partner for phones? The Chinese manufacturerhas been its licensing partner for theN1 tablet, which itannouncedin November 2014, and which runsthe Android OS skinned with Nokias Z launcher.I dont know, said Suri in response to the direct question.The right partner would need the right design wherewithal, channel, funding to go global, he added.Theres no timeline, theres no rush. Could happen in 2016, could happen later. But I think for us its a great business opportunity because ultimately royalty-based businesses are like software-based businesses, they all fall onto the bottom line.