As Ive written before, the backstory behind YC-backed Nomiku will give you a sweet tooth.Both literally and figuratively.Girl meets boy. They fall in love.They start teaching DIY classes on building hardware for the kitchen.BOOM. Hardware startup. (Actually, its never that simple.)But in any case, Nomiku has come a long way in a year.The company, which makes the formerlyhaute cooking technique of sous vide affordable to the masses, is getting into software with a new recipes app and more e-commerce with a pre-packaged food service.For those of you who dont know what sous vide is, its a way of cooking food in awater bath thats precisely temperature controlled. Food gets evenly cooked all the way through instead of being charred and dry on the outside and raw on the inside. Nomikus immersion circulator has a knob that you rotate to theexact temperature that you want, then you drop your sealed ingredientsinto a bucket full of water and wait.Since launching the company, they have created some of the most successful food-related Kickstarters of all time by raising more than $1.3 million in two separate campaigns. The original version of the product is alsoin 7,000 homes.Now theyve joined YCombinatorand are bringing a sous vide recipe app to the market. Called Tender, it contains recipes from well-known chefs likeRene Redzepi, Kristen Kish and Mei Lin. It also lets you remotely control your Nomiku and share recipes with others.Google is the main source that people use for sous vide recipes,said co-founder Lisa Fetterman. But we think our own app andmedia can create a stronger community.The startup is also partnering with local San Franciscoupscale grocery market Bi-Rite tocreate a delivery service, that will bring already vacuum-sealed and seasoned meats to customers doorsteps. Itshould run about $10 for two chicken thighs and about $6 for delivery. If customers order in bulk, the numbers will obviously work out better per piece of meat.The model is already tried and true, Fetterman said, pointing to Pat LaFrieda, themeat wholesaler that was pulling in $40 million in revenue per year in the NewYork regionand Omaha Steaksamong others.From there, Nomiku users can just plop those packets right into a bucket of water with the circulator going.Oh, and theyre migrating their startup into a new factory in the Mission, where they expect to design and manufacture Nomiku products locally. Theyll expect to hire at least six local workersto build products once the factory is set up.We basically went into a black hole studying manufacturing in China,said Fetterman of the time the pair and their third co-founderWipopBamSuppipat hustledtogether in China and Southeast Asia to build the first version of the Nomiku. Butwe like living next to our factory and we like living here. This isthe Maker movement. Were makers and this isall about changing the economy from the bottom up.