If youre a noodle soup enthusiast  and if youre not, you really should beheresan app thatll get you salivating.Wait, theres an app for noodle soup??? I hear you sayYes, thats right. Believe it or not noodle soup is a delightful culinary genre in its own right, not just a dish. Whether its pho from Vietnam, miso from Japan orguay tiew from Thailand, noodle soup is full of variety, depth and flavor.Worry not about the various different options though, becauseiOS app Noodler is here to cover you. [And now also Android.] Beyond a beautiful design that features anime-inspired illustrations, this oracle app is packed with meal ideas  more than three million soup designs in fact  each of which comes with a list of ingredients and cooking directions.Youll be greeted with a randomly generated soup idea right when you open the app. If that strikes your interest, simply tap on the bowl to be taken through to theinstructions page. Otherwise, hit refresh and new combination will appear for your perusal. I repeated the process a few times before I found something that looked right up my alley.The app is the work of New York-based writer/illustrator Michele Humes, who studied at theFrench Culinary Institute,and Joshua Sierles, a developer and designer who is located in Sevilla, Spain.Noodler is my love letter to noodle soup and dedicated to showcasing the beautyof the form, Humes told TechCrunch via email. We made it a true app with a discovery element,rather than passing off an ebook as an app  in order to showcase the versatility of the noodle soup format.Apple, for one, seems to agree. The company has featured Noodler multiple times in its China-basedapp store  which is how it came to our attention  but so far itis yet to showcase the app in other parts of the world.Those without an iPhoneare not covered by Noodlerright now, butSierles said work has already begun on an Android version, which we can expect to see soon.Since we built the app with React Native, a relatively new cross-platform framework from Facebook, this is turning out to be relatively easy to do, he explained. (Hopefully not famous last words here.)Update: the Android version isnow available, too.Right now, Noodler is available free of charge, but the plan is to monetize by limiting the number of available recipes and offering a one-time purchase to unlock the full library. That, my noodle soup loving friends, is enough of a reason to go look at the app today  youll find it in the App Store hereand Google Play here.