
Anshu Sharma is a venture partner at Storm Ventures. Todays apps can best be compared to websites of the last tech revolution (or bubble) in late 90s. The best of them, like Amazon, startedas simple websites, but today invent drones, build robots and invest billions of dollars in all kinds of innovation andresearch to transform retail, logistics and even computing. Uber is beginning to show signs of that transformation with its move into driverless cars and maps  the other Uber-like winners will follow. Those that minimize what these apps do dont understand that a full-stack revolution is afoot.Amazon startedas a bookseller. Twenty years later, it has redefined what a book is and what publishing is, and while doing so pretty much invented the future of retail and computing.By all accounts, Amazon has invested billions in robots, drones and warehousing automation technologies. It has changed how we compute, how we buy, how we search and how we pay, and its only getting started, as Jeff Bezos often reminds us.Its clear that the founders and investors of Uber have no desire to be satisfied by just being the No. 1 multi-billion-dollar cab-hailing app. Uber is applying itself to solve other problems, such as delivery, just as Amazon expanded from books to sell everything from electronics to lawn mowers.Uberalso is going to help us reinvent cars. Its CEO, Travis Kalanick, is reported to have said he will buy half a million cars himself. Uber is also investing directly in the future of driverless cars by building its own R&D center near CMU and buying up the maps group from Microsoft.Uber is going from a taxi-hailing app to a company thats using billions of dollars to rethink what a car itself is, and what logistics is. It is changing the meaning of ownership.Not every Uber of X app will succeed, but those that do could transform their industries. This is the real promise of Full-Stack Startups.Let me give you a few examples of what may be in store.There is an app for laundry service. In fact, there is more than one such app  Washio and Rinse being two that have raised millions. At first sight, they seem like the kind of companies that spoiled, rich techies in San Francisco dream up. But then you start investigating the time we spend doing laundry and the economic impact of it, and you realizethere is room to rethink the whole issue.Why does your washing machine need to be a $1,000 device that takes two hours to do its job? What would you build if you could build a $100,000 machine? Think commercial laundromat on driverless Benz trucks (they are coming).Another example is food delivery. Some of these apps do nothing more than charge, often double dipping, to connect us to some terrible food. However, food is the least disrupted, and yet one of the largest, categories out there. And there is room to rethink. One company I like is Munchery.Do you think Munchery just delivers yummy food? No, its rethinking how food is made and how we can all get amazing food from top chefs at reasonable prices. It is essentially marryinggreat chefs with world-class commercial kitchens and warehouses. Imagine what happens when these chefs have access to robots as assistants, driverless cars for delivery and AI to help with recipes.Finally, transportation. The disruption of transport by Uber and Lyft is well documented, but in my view, this is just the beginning of a multi-phase, multi-year journey of rethinking what transportation means and why we have cabs and buses.After all, why are these independent categories, when my goal is simply to get from point A to point B? Why cant you have a combination of cars and buses optimally deployed to handle the traffic. Imagine what happens when cars are supplemented by buses to get you there faster and more efficiently. In China, its already happening.While I have focused here on just a few examples in food, laundry and transportation, the innovators are hard at work rethinking all kinds of work that can be done by these futuristic full-stack app systems, from mowing our lawns to diagnosing our diseases  and even operating on them one day.While there is plenty to argue over valuations of $3 billion versus $30 billion for an Airbnb, Uber or Wealthfront, lets not forget that the goal of all these apps is to transform the world we live in by rethinking every assumption and applying the latest in tech to make it 10 times better. Thats what full-stack entrepreneurship really means.