Applications for the Startup Battlefield at Disrupt SFare now open, and you only have until 9 a.m. PT on June 22 to apply. Disrupt SF will take place on September 21-23 at Pier 70.Startup Battlefield companies spend six minutes onstage pitching their companies and ideas to millions around the world via the live stream.Founders then face a live question-and-answer session with our judges who are some of the brightest investors, founders and CEOs around. Former judges include Roelof Botha (Sequoia Capital), Kevin Rose (Google Ventures), Hunter Walk (Homebrew VC), Marissa Mayer (Yahoo) and many others.The Startup Battlefield winner will receive the highly coveted Disrupt Cup, a $50,000 grand prize and the attention of media and investors. Ourprestigious list of past winners includes the likes of Dropbox, Mint, Yammer, Layer and many more.All companies selected to participate in the Battlefield also get free demo space in Startup Alley, tickets to several VIP events, a Battlefield-only reception, and some killer swag. Youll also be able to attend the fireside chats, panels and other events that make Disrupt so great.We are looking for startups from around the world to debut in the Battlefield. No matter what your company does  whether its biotech, security, battery tech, hardware or software  we want to hear from you. We especially want to hear from brand-new companies, those unknowns who have had little to no previous press coverage.The benefits ofparticipating are many, and several Battlefield alums have gone on to do amazing things. Last years Battlefield winner at Disrupt SF 2014, Alfred, raised seed and Series A rounds totaling $12.5 million, acquired WunWun Tech and launched Hello Alfred, a single text portal for all your in-home service needs. Other alums includeZenefits, HRs hottest startup valued at around $4.5 billion;Fitbit, which is feverishly getting ready for an IPO;and LearnVest, which was acquired for $250 million.So what are you waiting for? Apply to the Startup Battlefield now. Applications are open through June 22 at 9 a.m. PT. Full eligibility details arehere. To apply, headhere.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team here.