[Technology can] empower individuals to do things they could have never dreamed of before, but also empower folks who are very dangerous to spread dangerous messages President Barack Obama said today.Obama took the stage at South By Southwest to discuss how technology could be used to enhance civic engagement. But the end of his talked ended up focusing on the balance between privacy and security surrounding encryption and the Apple-FBI case. He noted that the government shouldnt be able to get into peoples phones willy-nilly but that there will need to be constraints imposed on privacy to keep people safe.He sat down with Evan Smith, CEO and Editor in Chief of The Texas Tribune after grabbing lunch at Torchys Tacos.US President Barack Obama orders during a stop at Torchys Tacos on March 11, 2016 in Austin, Texas. Photo: MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty ImagesObama opened his talk by outlining three ways that tech can improve our country:Obama explained that The reason Im here is to recruit you all..The most important office in a democracy is the office of citizens. He went on to establish a theme of his talk that by activating tech talent and bringing them inside the government to fix its software, real progress can be made. For example, engineers from Google and Facebook have already done stints trying to straighten out the messy, inefficient government systems.You dont have to do it full time. You dont have to run for office yourself. But whatever your field is there is a way for you to engage and participate to take this democracy back in ways we havent seen in a very long time Obama urged.US President Barack Obama speaks during a South by Southwest Interactive with Texas Tribune editor Evan Smith (L) at the Long Center for Performing Arts in Austin, Texas on March 11, 2016. Photo: MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty ImagesFighting the war for the hearts and minds of potential terrorist recruits was one way Obama said the tech sector could assist the government. Figure out how we can reachyoung people who might be vulnerable to extremist messages he asked. Tell us, based on data and algorithms youre working with on a daily basis to sell products, what is it thats going to penetrate here?Back at home, the President said making voting more accessible is critical. Were the only advanced democracy in the world that makes it harder for people to vote. I hear laughing but its sad he explained. When asked whats preventing online voting in Texas, Obama said its not because its insecure, but its because the people who are governing the good state of Texas arent interested in having more people voting.Obama briefly lightened the mood by repurposing a popular meme that mentions him. The phrase Thanks, Obama is typically used on the Internet to jokingly blame the President for mundane, day-to-day problems he has nothing to do with, like spilling soup on yourself. But instead, when talking about how despite opposition from republicans, hes cut the unemployment rate, he said with a smile Thanks, Obama to thunderous applause.The days last question was about How you balance the need for law enforcement to conduct investigations with citizens to protect their privacy.Obama noted he was unable to directly address the on-going legal battle in which the FBI is trying to compel Apple to help it access the encrypted iPhone of the San Bernardino shooter to gain evidence. However, he gave a lengthy treatise on how the balance should be struck.You can read his full remarks in our separate article here, but the most important quotes were:We recognize that just like all of our other rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, etc,that there aregoing to be some constraints imposed to ensure we are safe.I am of the view that there are very real reasons why we want to make sure the government can not just wily-nilly get into everyones iPhones or smartphones that are full of very personal information or very personal data.US President Barack Obama (R) speaks during a South by Southwest Interactive at the Long Center for Performing Arts in Austin, Texas on March 11, 2016. / AFP / Mandel NganWe also want really strong encryption[though] there has to be some some concession to the need to be able to get to that information somehow.I suspect the answer will come down to how can we make sure the encryption is as strong as possible, the key is as strong as possible, its accessible by the smallest number of people possible, for a subset of issues that we agree are important.Essentially, Obama does believe that law enforcement and government should have ways to access encrypted data when absolutely necessary, but that that should be done in a way to minimize risk of a backdoor falling into the wrong hands.US President Barack Obama waves as he and Texas Tribune editor Evan Smith (L) arrive for a South by Southwest Interactive at the Long Center for Performing Arts in Austin, Texas on March 11, 2016. / AFP / MANDEL NGAN