After months and years of anticipation, the first Oculus Riftvirtual reality headset has been delivered into a customers hands. Ross Martin was the very first person to get a pre-order in for the Rift when they opened in early January.pic.twitter.com/jNOraS6mNo Ross Martin (@RossDM) March 26, 2016As a celebratory gesture, Palmer Luckey flew to Alaska to hand-deliver a Rift headset signed by all of the founders. To capture the moment Palmerutilized Facebook Live to stream the delivery and unboxing.The whole thing is testament how off-the-cuff and, well, live Facebook Live is. Facebook owns Oculus which may explain why they chose itas the recording method of choice for this moment. The live stream begins with a classic Its working? then later Wait, what?Then, a Hawaiian shirt and flip flop clad Luckeyrolls into an offive in Alaska where Martin works. Luckeywanders the halls a bit and then gets to the hand-off where he presents Martin with the first consumer Rift.Ive been working on this thing for so long, and youre the first person to actually get one, Luckey said in the video. So its kind of like me taking all of this work and handing it offto you so youve got to make sure you have fun with it or something.This is the first Rift to be delivered, but many more will be arriving Monday when the Rift officially launches. Most people will still have to wait a bit for the highly anticipated device. The $599 Rift is currently back-ordered for several months on the Oculus site.Martin wasat his office so he didnt end up having his PC build. Thereforeinstead of sitting down for a virtual realitygaming session, Palmer had to settle for some chitchat with Martin about how much it sucks to be working on the weekends, before he ends up cuttingthe video.But wait! Moments later, another live video went up where Martin gives a bit of his background and the pairchat about Alaska and sled dogs and stuff.In addition to being a major moment for consumer virtual reality, this video also shows the dedication some Silicon Valley founders show for their personal brands. I mean, what the heck is Luckeydoing wearing cargo shirts and flip flops in Alaska??Hiking through Alaska in the winter wearing flipflops was a mistake Palmer Luckey (@PalmerLuckey) March 26, 2016