If you care about tech news in Asia  and you should!  then chances are that not only do you read us here at TechCrunch  thanks and hi!  but you might also be aware of Tech In Asia. Well, today is an interesting day for our friendly rival which just raised $4 million.Started in 2011 and now with 70 staff across all departments, Singapore-headquartered Tech In Asia bills itself as a news site to serve and build Asias tech ecosystem. Thats certainly become more apparent these past few months. Thats because, in addition to its editorial team andblog, Tech In Asia has built out a paid-for analytics service called Techlist  in the style of TechCrunchs own, indomitable Crunchbase  and it recentlytook the wraps off a bold redesign that turned the site into a community hub, which allowing users to vote stories up (and down) and even contribute their own posts.These recent moves are unsurprisingly consideringthat Tech In Asia has been incubated at Y Combinator  it really opened my mind, Im so grateful, Tech In Asia founder Willis Wee told TechCrunch in a brief interview.There, the team seems to have come away with new ideas forengaging its audience andmonetization  neither of which is easy for media startups in todays age.The final addition to Tech In Asias new focusis this funding round, which is provided by a range of investors, includingSB ISAT Fund  a fund backed by SoftBank and Indosat among others  and now Singapore-based Facebook co-founderEduardo Saverin.Walden International,Marvelstone, and m&s Partners participated too. Interestingly, also in the round is AJ Solimine, who co-founded of Nitrous.IO  a company Saverin has invested in.Its always tricky to balance the conflict of investors who are also actively involved in the startup scene, and are therefore topics for news story. Indeed, Nitrous.IO  whichhas teams stationed in Silicon Valley and Singapore  is a new kind of conflict, since this is the founder of a startup that Tech In Asiawrites about.Tech In Asia has its own ethics pagewhich lists its investors and pledges to operate independently of them.Its always interesting to watch media companies develop. Realistically, going deep on a niche topic like Asia tech is challenging, particularly when you try to consider potential exits. I understand that Tech In Asia has been profitable in the past, thanks to a combination of events and ad revenue coupled withrelatively low costs, but now it is making a big push to be a startup hub for Asias tech community. While Im personally happy to work for a news site that focuses on news and not user-generated content, its an interesting approach and theres more to come. Tech In Asia is promising that it has a whole lot of exciting changes and new features planned for the community over the next 12 months.Wee didnt say exactly what future services will arrive, but youd suspect they will be other paid-for offerings  like Techlist  to boost revenue,as well as engagement. Speaking of which, the company claimed to have doubledits readership to one million per month over the past year. [Update] Tech In Asia confirmed that has 2.4 million views across its English and Indonesian websites.Either way, $4 million is the largest round Ive ever seen for a tech-focused media company in Asia  lets see how the folks over at Tech In Asia use this.Tech In Asia previously raised $2.89 million across seed, Series A and (dual) Series B rounds. Other investors in the company include East Ventures,Fenox Venture Capital andSimile Venture Partners.PS: If you want to get an idea of Tech In Asias community focus, you can read the AMA that I held there last Friday. VCs and prominent members of Asias tech communityhave doneothers too recently.