While you probably dont think about them until you have to, automotive batteries  the chunky boxes that helps start your cars gas engine  are pretty terrible.They die without warning, leaving you stranded. They weigh as much as a small child, making them tough to swap and eating into your gas mileage. Theyre filled with garbage materials that are terrible for the planet.And yet, the technology behind them hasnt really changed much in the past few decades.Ohm, part of YCs Summer 2015 class, wants to change that. Its a lighter, smarter, drop-in replacement for your existing battery.Most automotive batteries weigh around 40 pounds, with lead plates accounting for over half of that weight.Ohm gets the job done while coming in at just 6 pounds.How?Instead of lead plates, Ohm brings in a more modern, two-part system: an EDLC supercapacitor capable of dumping enough energy to start your engine, and a set of smaller batteries (LiFePO4, which contain no toxic heavy metals) to keep things powered when the engine is off.The physical footprint for Ohms battery rig ends up being considerably smaller than its lead-acid counterpart  but as they want this thing to work in existing cars without bouncing around under the hood, theyve tucked it into a case that makes Ohm roughly the same size as any other automotive battery. (Specifically, its built to fit into the same cavity as a Group 35 battery)Instead of wasting that extra space, theyre using it to bring another trick into the mix: smarts.We all know the pain of leaving your lights on and waking up to a dead battery. Ohms built-in circuitry monitors the supercapacitors potential output; if its ever about to reach the point that itll no longer be able to start your car, itll just turn itself off. Your lights will fade out and the radio will go quiet  but once you turn the key, everything will spring right back to life, no jump start required.Oh, and its lifespan (7 years) is about twice that of a lead-acid battery (3-4 years).So whats the downside? There has to be a downside, right?Theres one: you cant run your lights and/or stereo as long with your engine turned off. Ohms battery reserve comes in at 10 amp hours; most lead-acid car batteries come in at about 45 amp hours. If you can run your stereo with your engine off for three hours on your current battery, youd be able to run it on Ohm for less than an hour.Thanks to the aforementioned built-in smarts, though, youll never run it so long that you end up with a dead battery.The company tells me that its aiming for a price point of around $200  putting it on the high end of what youd normally pay for a battery ($120-$180) if you wandered into your local auto parts store. Given that Ohms lifespan is about twice as long, though, that pricing ends up working out.But do people plan that far ahead when it comes to things like car batteries? Many, if not most, just say I dont know, give me whatever is affordable and works in my car.With that in mind, Ohm is focusing on the performance car market first. Those are the guys thatll rip out their passenger seats to gain a tiny performance gain on the track  so the idea of shaving another ~30 pounds off their ride is probably a welcome one.Interested in learning more? Ohm is currently in private beta testing, with around a dozen units out in the wild. They plan to roll out crowdfunding campaign in the next month or so.