Omise, a relative newcomer to the payments space in Southeast Asia, landed a $2.3 million Series A investment earlier this year, and now the Bangkok-based startup has pulled in more money via an undisclosed seven-digitinvestment from Singapores Golden Gate Ventures.Co-founder and COO Donnie Harinsut told TechCrunch that the new money will be used to expand Omises payment processing service  currently live in Thailand  to Indonesia and Japan, where it is currently in beta, in December. Beyond that,the aim is to be live in another half a dozen markets over the next year Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines and Hong Kong are initial targets.We want to be a one-stop service for big merchants wanting to penetration Southeast Asia, Harinsut said of Omises ambitions. We dont really need the money, but we see that theres a big opportunity in around the region and we want to expand.Geographic expansions aside, Omise is eying new products, too. Right now itcaters tolarge enterprises, SMEs and startups who want payment gateway options, butHarinsut and CEO Jun Hasegawatold us that the firm is close to whitelabeling its service (for the first time) with a bank in Malaysia. The team is studying the possibility of using the blockchain (the technology that powers cryptocurrencies like bitcoin) to handle remittance payments in Southeast Asia. The Philippines is one of the largest remittance markets in the world, and it would be interesting to see a payments firm using the blockchain to tackle that opportunity.While opportunity appears to be knocking, theres one majorrival waiting in the wings: Stripe, the $5 billion valued U.S. firm.Stripe has been in Singapore with a beta service for a while, but it hasnt moved in other parts of Southeast Asia yet. Regardless, Harinsut believes Omise hasplenty of benefits over its well-backed rival. While Stripe processes payments for cards  including Alibabas popular Alipayservice in China  Omise covers a host of other methods, includinginternet banking, direct debt, and over-the-counter. The latter sounds incredibly low-tech, but  surprisingly  many in Southeast Asia like to pay bills over the counter at their local store, even if they have a credit card or internet banking something about seeing the color of their money perhaps.Beyond further financing for Omises ambitions, the deal is notable for being the second-largest check from Golden Gate Ventures.Our investment thesis is that in order to create a massive success in Southeast Asia, companiesneed to expand beyond their home country to reach the half billion people that are comingonline and rapidly adopting mobile internet and e-commerce. Expanding out from your homecountry is what separates the winners from the losers in this region, Vinnie Lauria, Managing Partner of Golden GateVentures, said in a statement.The VC firm launched its second, $50 million fundthis summer, and, having led a $3.3 million Series A for online furnishing seller Hipvan, it seems like we can expect plenty more deal activity to come.