Lugg, the startup that helps people with small moves, requested via an Uber-like mobile app, is this week expanding its reach into additionalmarkets. While originally available in the San Francisco Bay Area, the company says it will now be available in Silicon Valley, from Palo Alto to Mountain View and down to San Jose. In addition, Lugg notes that all of the Costcos and Crate & Barrels in the Bay Area are pushing customers toLugg as a means of helping them get their larger purchases home more quickly.Launched last year, Lugg addresses a common pain point for city dwellers and others who dont have largeenough vehicles to transport big items, like new furniture theyre buying from a store or garage sale finds. Through its mobile application, users can snap a photo of the item they want moved, and the app will then connect you with a local mover immediately. All of the payment, including the tip, is handled within Luggs app  similar to other on-demand car services, like Lyft or Uber, for example.Though you could choose to use Lugg repeatedly to move the contents of an apartment across town (and some have), Luggsgoal is not to compete with local movers or truck rental operations like U-Haul.That is, Lugg is not just a modern front-end to a traditional moving company. Instead, anyone can sign up to drive and move items, provided theyre able to physically do the work. Luggs focus, meanwhile, is tohelp customers to with smaller moves  a big item or two  that needs to get across town.Lugg is now in Costco!Get your furniture, TVs, and large items home in under an hour!  pic.twitter.com/MjjlRXABTj Lugg (@lugg) July 28, 2015//platform.twitter.com/widgets.jsTwo movers are assigned to each truck, and they can toggle on and off their availability, also as withother on-demand businesses. (Drivers are vetted first to make sure they can handle the work, and Lugg hascargo insurance for when things go wrong.)Customers pay for Lugg at a base price of $35, plus $2 per mile and $1 per minute of loading and unloading.According to company co-founder and CEO Jordan Brown, Lugg has been growing 30 percent month-over-month since its launch, and now has 250 trucks (Luggers) on the platform making money. To date, the company has raised $5 million from A-Capital,Sequoia, SV Angel, Y Combinator, and others.Its hard to tell how well Lugg is performing by analyzing its App Store metrics, given its limited service area. Its simply not an app that everyone can today use. However, it has climbed up from the 900s in the Travel category around the holidays to the high 300s this past month, which is promising.To kick off its Silicon Valley expansion, Lugg is offering customers $10 off theirfirst move with the promo code SILICONVALLEY.Lugg is available as both an iOS and Android application.