When the online banking service Simple got started, one of its promises to customers was that it would eliminate many of the excessive fees that traditional banks charge while also offering an improved and mobile-optimized banking experience. However, while Simple certainly did away with a number of the most common banking fees  like maintenance fees, overdraft fees, or minimum balance fees, for example  it still charged fees for other, lesser-used services. But the company announced this week that its ditchingall fees.Previously, Simple was still charging for things like over-the-counter cash withdrawals ($1 per transaction), international ATM cash withdrawals ($2), treasurers checks ($8 per check), inactivity ($5/mo) andcard replacement fees ($2; or $16 ifexpedited). Although these are not the sort of fees that customers would have to pay regularly, they still contributed to the companys bottom line.Going forward, Simple says it will continue to generate revenue from interest and interchange fees  that is, it splits the interest margin with its partner banks and it splits the service fee merchants pay to the issuing bank. This is the same way its always made money, to be clear, but now its eating the cost of even more fees in an effort to improve the overall customer experience.This revenue model is a manifestation of our belief that you should have access to your money when you need it, without paying fees, explains Simple co-founder and CEO Josh Reich. Todays elimination of all fees is one example of how were constantly working to remove any inconvenience our customers feel from using a branchless service, he adds. Its also the right thing to do. You shouldnt have to worry about how much its going to cost to access your money.To some extent, Simple is able to do this because its no longer operating as a startup in need of funding to stay alive  the company was acquired last year byfinancial services corporation BBVA for $117 million. At the time, Simple said it hadover 100,000 customers. A later reportrevealed the number of active customers was lower,a leaked document stated. (Simple responded that the document was using placeholder numbersand was no longer accurate.)Today, Simple tells us that it has hundreds of thousands of customers, but declined to offer a specific figure. The company also says itsbeen seeing higher growth than ever and hasan in industry low CPA (for personal retail checking accounts) by a significant margin.Weve also heard that Simples current growth rate isroughly on par with a bank that would have 5,600 branch employees, or 850 branches, though it has a team of just under 300.By ditching its remaining fees, Simple may appeal to thosewho are fed up with their current bank and looking for a more affordable alternative.That being said, though Simple customers may be saving on fees, they domiss out on some of the options bigger banks provide  like high-yield checking andsavings accounts, for example. (Simple pays 0.01% in interest on customers funds.) That means at some point, a portion of Simplescustomersmay consider other online banking options  perhaps opting for bank that does profit from overdraft fees in exchange for better interest rates, for example.One word of caution: while Simple is eliminating all its fees, that doesnt mean that youll never pay extra when you hit up the ATM. Like most banks,there are fees for using out-of-network ATMs and Simple wont reimburse for those. Still, the company points out, its customers have access to more than 55,000 fee-free ATMs  twice the number of Chase and Bank of America combined.