Yes, you read that right. Only 24 hours left to apply to the Startup Battlefield at Disrupt London. Time to get going. You can do it.We loved being in London so much that were bringing Disrupt back to welcome an all-new slate of outstanding startups, influential speakers, guests and more to the stage. It marks the second time weve set up shop in London and we couldnt be more thrilled to be coming back.Most of all we want the hottest companies to launch  for the first time  on our stage, so apply to Startup Battlefield. Dont leave 30K euros on the table.Both Europe and non-Europe-based teams are eligible to apply. Last years batch was the poster child for the EU. Participating startups hailed from Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Czech Republic, Ireland, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Russia and the U.K. One U.S.-based company even managed to make it in and claimed the No. 2spot.The Battlefield has no funding minimum or maximums to participate. TechCrunch has seen teams in the garage stage all the way up to several million dollars in funding that are spinning off university research. That being said, most participating startups would consider themselves to be seed stage.Startups from all verticals are eligible to participate in the Battlefield. Recently, the Battlefield has been the launch vehicle for startups in batteries, biotech, bitcoin, cloud computing, consumer hardware, dev tools, education, fintech, e-commerce, healthcare, emerging market connectivity, security and many others. Creating a new market? We like that, too.One of our goals at TechCrunch is to bring new, interesting startups to light for our audience. Battlefield startups should for the most part be under the radar and should not have a lot of previous press. Demo day wrap-ups or short announcements for a beta product are usually allowed.For more information and to apply tothe Startup Battlefield visit http://apply.techcrunch.com/ and submit your application by September 30 at 9 p.m. PT. Startups will find out if they are selected in late October.If youre looking to find out more about Battlefield alumni, judges or the process in general, check out the Startup Battlefield Hub.Email battlefield@techcrunch.com with more questions and well do our best to get back to you in a timely manner.