Tinder announced this morning its testing a new friend-finding feature called Tinder Social in its popular dating app. The idea is to offer a way for you and your group of friends to find and connectwith other groups out in the real world. Similar to how Tinder works for finding prospective dates, Tinder Social lets friends swipe and match with other groups they want to meet. Unfortunately, Tinder users who are being opted into this feature by default are surprised to find that it automatically displays which of their Facebook friends are also using Tinder  information not everyone wants revealed.Of course, you may run across at leastsome of those friends while actually using the app. But Tinder Social presents a list of all your Facebook friends and lets you view their dating profiles from a very accessible interface. Yikes.Not everyone is thrilled about that, it seems. Especially those who might be using Tinderyou know, on the side.Plus, some othersseem to think that a group option on Tinder means the app now wants to helpyou find group sex. (Thats not a huge leap, after all  theres already a Tinder for threesomes called 3nder out there.)The good news is that Tinder is stillexperimenting with this new featurefor now, and is only testing it with a small group of users in Australia. So youre probably safe from being exposed for the time being.Theproblemwith Tinder Socialissomewhat of an odd oversight for the app, which has before touted its privacy features as one of its selling points. For example, its App Store description promotes the fact that no one knows whether you swiped left or right unless you match, and the app will never post anything to Facebook.But its not surprising to see Tinder moving into the friend-finding space.After all, theidea for finding dates in a group setting is not new. Many dating companies host local meetups, and some dating startups like Grouper, for instance, have attempted to productize the idea of the group date.In addition, friend-findingis an untapped area for social networking apps.A number of startups over the years have tried various tricks to help users meet new people out in the real world, but none ever really made it. Severallocation-based social apps, like Highlight, experiencedbrief popularity manyyears ago, but they didntprove to have staying power.Meanwhile, a new batch of startups today are developing their own take on Tinder for finding friends.And most notably, one of Tinders top competitors Bumble, founded by early Tinder employees including Whitney Wolfe (yes, she of the sexual harassment lawsuit), also recently launched a friend-finding function. However, in Bumbles case, its about connecting individuals, not groups.Tinder, however, has asizable enough user base  an estimated 50 million+ users  to make such a feature really take off.(Well, unless Tinders users shut down their accounts and delete the app because they dont want their Tinder usage and dating profile revealed, I suppose!)The solution for the Tinder Social problem is easy enough to fix, though. Its a matter of adjusting a setting. The feature is currently opt-out instead of opt-in  that is, you can disable it from the apps Settings screen. Clearly, Tinder needs to make a change to how this is enabledor risk alienating a portion of its user base before it rolls this out more broadly.The company didnt say when it plans to bring Tinder Social to other markets  only that it will launch globally soon.