Bobby Goodlattes childhood involveda non-stop political campaign a whirlwind of pancake breakfasts,hand-shaking and kissing babies. Thats because his father, Bob Goodlatte, hasserved in U.S. Congress for nearly all of his life.That gave himyears of exposure to how politics and governance actuallyworks.I actually think that the mechanics of running for office have very little to do with how qualified or good a potential leader can be, Goodlatte said. We optimize for people who can campaign well  not people who can govern well.When Goodlatte grew up, he didnt end uptouchingpolitics; his career took him in a totally different direction. He would later go on to work at Facebook as a designer.Ive been cagey about it for a very long time, he said. Ive been very wary about having my dad open doors for me in life. Were startingfrom the exact opposite sides of the political spectrum.But afterseveral years of working atFacebook, hesreturning to some of the problems he was so exposed to as a child with a new project called OpenVote. Its a platform for pledging votes and learning aboutpolitical issues.On it, you can pledge to vote a certain way, and spread your vote out to friends witharguments for your position.Broadly speaking, every timethe mediachanges, politics also changes, he said. If you go back to the Nixon versus Kennedy debates, Nixon was sweating and he lost. That was the introduction of the TV era and the idea of owning the media cycle. Then after that came the Internet era,in which Obama did an amazing job.But theres also this post-Facebook and post-social Internet era and I dont know if weve seen a campaign that is run natively in this medium.The key difference now is that every voter has their own audience. So instead of needing campaigns that blast out messages in a one-to-many format, Goodlatte argues that theres a possibility to let a campaigns biggest advocates bundle up votes.Goodlatte is actually optimistic about political media,in part because the Internet allows more sophisticatedand in-depth debates than the soundbite cycle of 24-hour Cable news.I see more and more precise political arguments being communicated every day.John Oliveris #1 on that list for me. Hes articulating very in-depth and specific political concerns directly to his audience.He also pointed to some oftheessays being spread around about Proposition F, which would more tightly regulated short-term rentals and Airbnb in SF. A couple ofpieces went viral, including Eventbrite director Eric Meyersons worries aboutlegal liability*, and housing activist Sara Shortts piece on loss of rent-controlled units to Airbnb.As abeta test, Goodlatte is focusing the first version of OpenVote on San Franciscos November elections, which have five housing-related ballot initiatives. The last day to register to vote is on October 19.He and his co-founder Sean McCann have been going around SanFranciscofilming opposing arguments for differentpropositions.Here are two argumentsfor and againstProposition I,which would put in a18-month moratorium or pause onmarket-rate housing development inthe Mission District. Supporters like non-profit MEDA and supervisor David Campos are hoping that this gives the neighborhood time to acquire the largest re-developableparcels of land in the neighborhood to put toward subsidized, affordable housing. Opponents are worried that this would drive up rents and eviction pressures even higher as ten to twenty thousand people a year keep moving to San Francisco anyway. They also add that the city cant force or compel landowners to sell parcels to them.David Campos, speaking for Proposition I from Openvote on Vimeo.Scott Wiener, speaking against Proposition I from Openvote on Vimeo.*Meyerson is writing about Prop. F as an individual, not as a representative of Eventbrite.