If youre anerdy sort of iPhone user, then you know the frustration that comes fromtapping a link on the web and then being directedto some crappy mobile website for the app instead of the lovely, native version you already have installed on your phone. For example, a link in a news article referencing a tweet might take you to Twitters mobile site instead of the Twitter app. Meanwhile, when tapping links inside native apps, you oftencantexit the app either  itjust opens up amobile website within the app youre already using.A new iOS utility called Opener offers a workaround for this problem  at least, it will until Apple addresses the issue itself viaan iOS upgrade.The problem is one thats better solved on Android, where linksassociated with an app can be opened within that app no matter where on the system the URL is tapped. iOS users arent so lucky, unfortunately.Built as a side project by Flipboard engineer Tim Johnsen, Openers creator explains that the problem was basically a huge personal pain point.Ialways get frustrated that we have these brilliant devices in our pocket with amazing software, yet developers dont make their apps work together and websites dont work with apps well either, he says. Android does this so much better than iOS  theyve had this built into the system from the get go. Im trying to improve the experience by letting people get to what they want quickly and easily.Opener works in one of two ways. First, you can copy a link you find on the web and then launch the Opener app to choose which native application you want to open the link within. A YouTube link, for instance, would let you pick from native apps like ProTube orYouTube. A Twitter link could be opened in Twitter, Tweetbot, or Twitterific.The app also includes an Action extension, which works in those apps that support the iOS share sheet. After setting up theextension (Opener offers simple instructions for doingthis), the Opener app will appear as one of the actions you can take when you long press on a link inside an app. That is, next to the options Add to Reading List, Copy, or Open in Safari, among other things, there will be a new Action labeled Opener. Tapping this opens the app where, again, you can pick which native app should be used to open up the link in question.For example, if you come across an Instagram link while browsing posts on Twitterific, you could tap Opener then choose Instagram to open the link directly within the Instagram native application.At present, Opener supports 50 applications ranging from social apps like Instagram and Twitter, to media apps like Spotify and YouTube, to shopping apps like Amazon and Kickstarter and more. Johnsen says hes continuing to add othersall the time, and theyll appear in the New Supported Apps section inOpener when theyre added.OK, fine. I told you it was a bit nerdy.But if youre just nerdy enough to know the problem Opener addresses, you might be willing to chip in the $1.99 Johnsen is charging for hissolution. That might be too high a price for this sort of niche utility, but Johnsen argues that not only will it help him purchase the apps he needs to test Opener with, it will attract a smaller, but less fickle, user base.Sure, I could get a ton of users if the app was free, but I really want users who can make good, long-lasting use of it and find it valuable enough to pay for, he says.As someone who spends huge chunks of my day tapping on my iPhones screen, I skipped my Starbucks latte today and bought Opener instead. Of course, thiscould end up being a temporary fix to a problem thats addressed with the release of the next version of the iOS operating system, iOS 9. In fact, there are already hintsthat something like thiscould be in the works.But if you cant wait for the core OS improvements to arrive, Opener is $1.99 here on iTunes.