Operation KKK, an Anonymous-led effort to shut down the Ku Klux Klan, has begun in earnest. The main Twitter account is reporting that many KKK-related sites are down after concerted hacking efforts and that more are to come as they prepare for an action called HoodsOff on November 5.The Ku Klux Klan is classified as a hate group by the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center and is said to have between 5,000 and 8,000 members. Operation KKK hopes to unmask 1,000 of its prominent members.After closely observing so many of you for so very long, we feel confident that applying transparency to your organizational cells is the right, just, appropriate and only course of action, wrote the representatives of hacker collective Anonymous on Tuesday. We will carry out our mission in a responsible, effective manner. We appreciate your patience & support for this initiative.In some parts of the Internet attacks are already happening. A self-styled anti-hate group hacker who calls himself Amped Attacks and has taken down the official website for the Westboro Baptist Church in addition to a number of KKK websites. Most damaging, however, is his claim that he hacked into KKK websites and gathered identifying information for a number of state senators and mayors whose addresses appeared in KKK databases.https://t.co/CYUDdycWtQ Just cause i wanted to @WBCSaysRepent pic.twitter.com/g8fPKGxf69 Amped Attacks (@sgtbilko420) November 2, 2015I am not involved with Anonymous or any other hacktivist group. I am my own man that acts on my own accord and the take down of WBC is just something i felt like doing cause frankly i am tired of them spewing their hate message, he said.The list, which can be found on Pastebin, is unconfirmed although Amped Attacks claims to have cross-referenced KKK databases with public email addresses for the public figures in question.I worked for nine days to gather and verify all the information that was gathered before its release. I got the information from several KKK websites when I [hacked] them and was able to dump their database. I went through many emails that was signed up with these sites and a few of the emails that sparked my interest was the ones of the politicians in question there would be no reason for them to be signed up on any KKK website unless they supported it or was involved in it.