Following the launch of a built-in VPN service in its web browser last month, Opera this morning debuted a free and unlimited mobile VPN app for iOS devices. Called Opera VPN, the app is designed to protect users privacy  it removes ad blockers, for example  but its also marketed towards those who want a way to work around restricted internet access, such as on networksmanaged by I.T. departments at workplaces and in schools.After installing and opening the app on your mobile device, it will remove ad-tracking cookies  those that follow you around the web  in order to serve up personalized advertising and share your data with advertisers and marketers.Opera also explains that the app allows users to encrypt their local web traffic, for further privacy protection. This is useful when using unencrypted public Wi-Fi networks, too.The VPN service is made possible by way of SurfEasy, a company Opera acquired last year. This is what Opera is already using to power its browser-based VPN, which is still in testing. (Its in the developer version of the browser.)That acquisitioncame at an opportune time for Opera, as people are increasingly concerned about government surveillance of their internet activity.In addition, web users today dont want to have their access to the internet controlled by outside entities, like corporate I.T., especially when theyre using a personal device, like theiriPhone.Every day, millions of people, from students to working people, find that social-media sites like Snapchat, Instagram and Facebook are blocked when they surf on their campus or workplace Wi-Fi. The same goes for video-streaming sites, Chris Houston, President of Surfeasy, Operas VPN division, said in an announcement released this morning. With the new Opera VPN app, we help people to break down the barriers of the web and enjoy the internet like it should be, he added.The VPN app, at launch, lets you choose from one of five virtual locations: the U.S., Canada, Germany, Singapore and The Netherlands. Its also available in several languages, includingEnglish, Arabic, French, German, Indonesian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.The app will compete with a good handful of free VPN services available on iOS today. However, many of those apps are in the business of tracking consumers mobile usage as part of a larger business involving the sale of app analytics data. Many competing are also not free, which is another advantage for Operas app.Operas iOS app is available as a free download here on the iTunes App Store.