I spotted an OtterBox case on the train ride in this morning that more or less confirmed my feelings about the companys products: big, bulky and protective. Swaddling ones phone in an OtterBox case for a New York City subway ride is the smartphone equivalent to wearing a bulletproof vest in public. Its kind of uncomfortable and slightly awkward, but hey, you never know, right?But while there will always be a place for hyper-protective cases (I know what I want my phone in the next time I go crab fishing), the company has clearly been looking for a way to offerprotection without effectively encasing the thing in Lucite.OtterBox took steps toward shedding that image with the launch of its commuter series and the 2013 acquisition of LifeProof, a San Diego-based companythat has largely done a good job designing protective cases that do a fine job offering protection without adding too much bulk.In its undressed form, the uniVERSE more closely resembles LifeProofs output than the sort of thing most of us have come to associate with OtterBox, and the rep I met with ahead of the products announcement was quick to point that out. This isnt the standard water, dust and drop-proof fare weve come to expect from the case maker. Its much slimmer and, if I do say so, better looking than many of OtterBoxs other offerings.Theres still some solid bumper protection in the corners enough to protect the phone from a standard bumbling drop on the side. With the screen and bottom fully exposed, however, its not going to be much protection from water, dust and the like. But for once, thats not really the point. The point, as a matter of fact, is on the back of the case: that little piece of plastic that slides out that Ill probably end up losing within the first five days of owning the phone.Or more precisely, the point is what slots into that spot: a battery pack, a selfie stick, a storage-extending dongle, Bluetooth speakers. The skys the limit, really, and OtterBox is coming out of the gate with an impressive set of accessories for the iPhone/iPhone Plus case helped along by some high-profile partnerships. Polar has created the lions share of theplug-inshere, but other partners include a card reader from Square, Olloclips four-in-one lens. Influxs Wi-Fi booster and Seek Thermals thermal imaging camera.The case starts at$50and the accessories really run the gamut, from a $20 mobile wallet to the 128GB version of SanDisks iXpand Flash Drive, which runs $120 (the same MSRP as the standalone version).The uniVERSE isnt the first modular smartphone case weve seen. In fact, Olloclip introduced its own take on the space last year. But OtterBoxs case-making know-how and its willingness to work directly with a number of other companies has resulted in a fairly compelling product. Its not perfect  the battery pack is awkwardly shaped and the speakers dont sound great, but the whole system slots together nicely, and theres something to be said for not having to settle for a one-trick case. Of course, as with any phone case, theres still a little mental arithmetic to be done with regards to whether the system is worth your while.For starters, how many of the different functions do you plan on using regularly? I could certainly see myself using the battery and, occasionally, the speaker, though I prefer a standalone Bluetooth sound system. And in the case of a number of the products like the iXpand Flash Drive, being built into the case doesnt offer a huge advantage over getting the product as a standalone.Still, its a compelling product and one that will only become more so as more partners and products are announced.