As Twitter marches closer to selecting its next CEO, outspoken early investor in the company Chris Sacca has made his personal choice known.Via Twitter of course:Twitter should name @jack as full-time CEO and promote @adambain to President and COO. @ev should become Executive Chairman of the board. Chris Sacca (@sacca) August 7, 2015In a multi-part tweet storm, Sacca backs up his reasoning for wanting Dorsey back in the saddle. First and foremost is his product vision. Twitters previous CEO, Dick Costolo, stepped down in July after announcing his departure in June.His What Twitter can be blog post has been widely cited by analysts who are trying to figure out which direction the company might go in hiring its next permanent CEO.Saccas refrain of the founders see the future is one that many happen to agree with, as the confusion over what Twitter is has mounted as more people who werent around during its launch are added.While Sacca backs Dorsey as its permanent CEO, he has great things to say about another candidate for the position, Adam Bain:Anyone paying attention knows @adambain is one of the best operators in business today. His day-to-day leadership will be invaluable. Chris Sacca (@sacca) August 7, 2015All in all, it sounds as if Sacca feels like the search has become a distraction and its time to put the future team in place and get to work. He might not be the only who agrees as Square and Twitter investor Suhail Rizvi endorsed Saccas suggestion of appointing Dorsey with a retweet. During its last earnings call, the company provided no update on how the search for a permanent CEO was coming along. Twitter also showed a serious lack of growth. Both scared the bejeesus out of investors.Dorsey remains the CEO of Square, which is rumored to be going public sometime this year. Sacca feels like Dorsey could, and should, handle both jobs. It sounds like Square might not be all in for that, as a Bloomberg report today points to the company preparing a Plan B to move on without Dorsey at the helm.