Time to makeway for another startupjuggernaut out of thefinancial world.Funding Circlea London-based peer-to-peer platform for small businesses to get loans, and investors to put up money to finance those loans  is today announcing that it has raised$150 million in venture funding, in a round that we have confirmed values the startup at over $1 billion.While partial news of the financing leaked outearlier this month,now we have the full details. This latest round was led by DST Global, with participation also from Baillie Gifford, a fund managed by BlackRock, Sands Capital Ventures and Singapores Temasek.We are delighted to support Samir and the team at Funding Circle as they continue to grow and deliver value to both sides of their marketplace, said Yuri Milner, founder of DST Global in a statement. DST has backed a wide range of other huge Internet companies and those that look like they are on their way to being huge. Recent other investments include Slack, Ola and Farfetch (enterprise collaboration, transport, and fashion respectively). Further back, it also invested in Twitter, Airbnb, Spotify and Facebook.While the companys valuation vaults it into the so-called unicorn club, its about to passanother billion landmark: Funding Circle is on target to loanout $1 billion on its platform this calendar year.Additionally, its announcing some key appointments to bolster its growth. David Yu, formerly theCEO and CTO of online betting business Betfair, is Funding Circlesnew chief product officer. It has also appointedChitra Nayak, previously COO of Salesforces Platform business, as its U.S. COO.Samir Desai, the co-founder and CEO of Funding Circle, tells me that the company was not actively looking to raise the money and doesnt even actually need it at the moment (sound familiar?). Of the $65 million it raised last summer, the vast majority is still on the balance sheet, he said in an interview.Still, there are plans for where investments will be made. The company is currently active in the U.S. and UK markets, and it has plans to expand to further countries later this year. (Where that will be Desai is not yet making public, but the involvement of DST and Temasek could mean a moveinto Asia, if not deeper into Europe.) Andeven consideringthe volumes of transactions Funding Circleis already seeing in markets where it already exists, there is a lot of room to grow.Inthe UK where weve lent over 600 million the amountof awareness among small businessesis still low, he said. Less than 5% of businesses have heard of us, and the proportion is even less in the U.S. So part of the investment the company will make going forward will be in marketingto drive more users to our services, he said. There are a number of other online lending platforms in the market today Lending Club, Prosper, Zopa and Smava (which raised money today too) being a just a handful of the others out there working specifically in the area of P2P loans. But its because of this low awarenessthat Desai thinks the big competition for Funding Circle remains to be more traditional banks, which still account for most of the loans that small businesses get today.Launched in 2010, Desai says that Funding Circle currently has around 40,000 investors putting money up for loans on its platform, with lenders ranging from individuals through to large institutions like the UK government.While some lending platforms have scandalously nosedived because they could never manage to recoup the money given out, Funding Circle has built a business that is providing decent returns both to the company itself and to the people who are investing in it.Desai says that about 2% of Funding Circles loans go bad each year, but overall investors are seeing returns of 7% on their investments in the UK, and 10% in the U.S. Interest rates are not drastically different from what a customer might see from a bank loan  anything from 6% to 20% Desaisays  but the key difference is simply that the business may get the money using Funding Circle, when it might not be so lucky with the bank.Funding Circle makes income by takingbetween 2% and 5% from the borrower, and 1% per year from lenders, largely for a servicing fee.It also has constructed its business to focus on a very particular type of small business. Desai describes a typical loan applicant a a main street business  restaurants or pharmacies or small manufacturing operations  which have been trading for eight years on average, with revenues of over $1 million annually.These companies have in the past struggled to access credit, he says, which they would need for one-off investments like capital projects. Once a businessborrows from us there is a 77% chance it willcome back.Still, the promise of Funding Circle as a money-making business is one that seems still in the future. According to numbers published by The Times, the companys last full-year accounts show that it made revenues of 5.3 million ($8 million) in 2013, up from 1.9 million in 2012. It also made a pre-tax loss of 5.3 million in 2013.
This is one of the largest funding rounds for a startup out of London, and for a lending platform anywhere. Other notable fintech fundings out of Europe include WorldRemit, which picked up $100 million in February, $58 million for TransferWise, and Kreditechs $40 million.Funding Circle has now raised $273 million to date, with other investors including Index Ventures, Accel Partners, Union Square Ventures and Ribbit Capital.