While Spotify is acquiring startupsexpandits messaging and social features, Pandora is also raisingits game in the artist-to-fancommunicationssphere for musicians to better target Pandoras 80 million users. Today, the music streaming company is launching a service called AMPcast  a service tolet musicians speak to their fans by way of audio messages that they can record quickly on their mobile phones and post to run in conjunctionwith their music streams.The new feature comes at an interesting time. Just yesterday we wrote about a new service called Superphone. Coded by musician Ryan Leslie, its a super light version of an artists communication tool that uses SMS and users phone numbers to send direct messages to fans. It includes features like geo-targeting and the ability to segment based on previous actions like what music or merchandise a user buys. The emergence of Superphone, to me, isa sign of how artists are not just in need of more tools to market themselves in the cut-throat, thin margin world of digital music  but also of how some are looking to take matters into their own hands.The new feature launch isalso coming up ahead of Pandoras much anticipated integration and future roadmap in the wake of its acquisition of Rdio.It looks like AMPcast is next generationproduct of Artist Audio Messages, whichPandora founder Tim Westergren first launcheda year agoand has had152 million messages heard to date.AMPcast, in contrast to Artist Audio Messages, is completely self-serve as artists can create and record messages instantly right from their phone, the company tells me. It also gives artists the ability to track stats on those audio messages. Previously artist had to record these messages in studio and it was not as streamlined, a spokesperson said. At the same time, Pandora is touting a a lot of success for its existing audio message product. It claimed click-through rates as high as 17.67% from fans to hear a new album release from DJ StephenAoiki.AMPcast will be a part of Pandoras Artist Marketing Platform, the companys interface for artists and their teams to manage profiles and other features on Pandora.The company says that the typical types of content in these audio messages will be practical info like tour or concert dates, album release dates, or just anecdotes. The messages can be linked up with the ability to buy albums and tickets.AMPcast has the potential to change the odds for musicians, said Tim Westergren, Pandoras founder, and former touring musician, in a statement. This powerful tool, combined with the scale and reach of Pandora, gives every talented and hard-working artist a real shot to build a career in music. Marketing and promotion for artists will never be the same.Pandora says AMPcast is live starting today to a select group of artists with a wider release in coming months.A little preview of how it works is below: