Dashlane, the New York startupthat provides a platform forusers to manage their passwordsand online identities across multiple sites and apps, has raised a further $22.5 million in funding and picked up a key strategic investor and partner in the process. TransUnion, a credit monitoring and ID protection company, led aSeries C round, and it will use the deal to develop services with Dashlane for each others customers.Others in the round included existing investorsRho Ventures, FirstMark Capital and Bessemer Venture Partners. Dashlane has raised $52.5 million to date. Emmanuel Schalit, Dashlanes CEO, said in an interview with TechCrunch that the company is not disclosing its valuation.More specifically: We never have, and since the meaning of these numbers is shifting rapidly up and down and are so virtual, they dont mean anything anymore, sowe are not focused onthat, he said.The market for identity protection and password protection has perhaps never been stronger than it is today. There isa growing waveof mainstreamservices that you consume in the cloud that need you to authenticate who you are. But the instances of malicious hackers uncovering and using your credentials for nefarious purposes seem to be rising at an alarming rate.Those two forces have been a big boost for Dashlanes business. Today, the company says it has more than5 million consumers in over 150 countries, and it has enabled $6 billion in e-commerce transactions to date.As a point of comparison, two years ago when we covered the companys previous round of funding, it had only 2 million users and helped process $1 billion in transactions. (Incidentally, thefaster growth in transactions is also a mark of just how big a role online services plays in our lives today.)Schalit told TechCrunch that the funding will be used in a few different areas.The company plans to continue to build more sophisticated password-focused productsfor consumers to complement existing ones, suchas this handy service that lets you change passwords for multiple sites, all in one go.But its also building out its B2B e-commercebusiness, a keyway that it fits with TransUnions focus. Most recently, Dashlaneinked a deal with Citigroup-ownedBanamex in Mexicoand says it has deals in the works with other financial institutions. We will have more partnerships with banks to help with services like fraud and online payment protection, he said.While its consumer products are already sold on a freemium model, there is also an opportunity to sell more services to enterprises, he said. We are seeng a lot of appetite for enterprise versions of what we are building, Schalit noted.The thirdarea is geographic expansion, with Dashlane already available across seven languages but with plans to add more. Developing markets seem to be a specific focus. TransUnionis a leader in places like India, he hinted.TransUnion is one of the very big players in thespace of identity protection, but coming from a different angle: it works to help you manage your credit profile, and also works with large sites to protect their transactions. Its been progressively making more moves to shift some of its business to focus on protection for individuals, and so this is where its interest and investment in Dashlane fits.Its not TransUnions first move to tap into the startup world to build out its business: the company acquired Irelands TrustEv last year for $44 millionto expand its e-commerce fraud protection business.As for what the two plan to do together, the companies are not yet releasing specific services but they will represent breaking new ground for both of them. These integrated services will focus on credit monitoring, identity and fraud protection, credit information and breaches, notes a statement. TransUnion will also help Dashlane expand its distribution through TransUnions multiple partner channels in the U.S. and globally. John Danaher, president of TransUnion Consumer Interactive, will also join Dashlanes board.Schalit said the first services will come to the market in Q4 of this year.We are impressed by Dashlanes capabilities from a product and technology standpoint, said Danaher in a statement. Dashlanes mission is straightforward, and the company is uniquely positioned to benefit from the ever-increasing need for simple, secure digital identity solutions. We feel TransUnion, with its vast array of credit and identity protection services and its global consumer reach, can help accelerate Dashlanes growth even further.Carl Pascarella, former CEO of Visa, has also joined Dashlanes board with this round, asan independent director. Dashlanes ability to facilitate payments and help reduce fraud is uniquely relevant for financial institutions, said Pascarella. I am excited to have an opportunity to lend my experience to help the team at Dashlane accomplish their vision for secure information and online payments.