Path announced that it has soldits flagship messaging apps to Koreas Daum Kakao today, butthe company has retained one interesting part of its business: its Places business-to-consumer messaging service. Thats according to Daum Kakao, which confirmed to TechCrunch that it didnt acquire that asset.Update:It looks like Places is headed to the deadpool. Path confirmed to TechCrunch that it is not currently ready to make the investment to build out a new app for the feature, and therefore it has been disabled. The full statement is at the bottom of this post.To recap, Path Talk was the standalone messaging app that the company released last year to allow Path users to communicate without the clutter of a social network. (In the same way that Facebook has Messenger.) The service become a whole lot more interesting when Path added Places, a feature that allowed Path Talk users to communicate with local restaurants and shops inside the app  either through direct conversation with staff or via a team of Path employees whod act as a liaison.Path Talk Places never become mainstream, but it enjoyedaloyal following among those who used it, many of whom were likely anxious that the service wassold off. Daum Kakao said that nearly everything you have come to love about Path and Path Talk will remain as is, but thingslooked bad when the Places feature stopped working with Path Talk following the announcement of this deal. However, thats becauseDaum Kakao ownsPath Talk and Path owns Places andthey are not working together.Sad that @path has disabled access to Path Talk for Places in Australia following the sale to @daumkakaoglobal pic.twitter.com/SBBoAqKyDP Zac Davies (@ZacDavies) May 29, 2015The Path business has moved towardsbecoming a multi-app studio it recently releasedGIF creation app Kong and that suggests that we could we seePlaces resurrected as a new, standalone service managedby Path. Particularly since Path CEO David Morin has always been hugely optimistic about the service which slotsintohisapps the new featuresphilosophywhile the communications infrastructure, so often the hardest part of business-consumer services, is in place in the U.S., Australia andmany parts of Europe already.Weve reached out to Path for comment on the future of Places, but fans of the service have reason to be optimistic.Update: Heres Paths statement:Daum Kakao acquired Path Talk and not Path Places. Therefore we no longer have a home for Path Places. Weve decided that were not currently ready to make the investment to build out a new app for the feature. We may reassess in the future, as we still own the IP. Weve received only a few consumer inquires regarding Path Places and have communicated the change through @Pathservice.And heres one such tweet:@MrcusAurelius Path Talk has been acquired by Daum Kakao, but not Places. http://t.co/aB7Q8PCohu The service has been disabled for now. Path Service (@PathService) May 29, 2015