Pavegenis on a mission to upgradethe ground you walk on. The U.K. clean-tech startup has engineereda high tech flooring product that can generate enoughenergy topower lights and even buildings by harnessing kinetic energy from pedestrians walking on it.The surface isalso sensitive towhere people are walking, and how many pedestrians are in a given area, so the company ishoping to createa data-analytics software business to go with its high tech underfoot hardware  hardwarewhich could, for instance, tell subway travelerswhere to stand on a platform to get into the least busy carriage before the train arrives.Pavegens currentflooring product can be used indoors or outdoors in high traffic areas, and generates electricity from pedestrian footfall using anelectromagnetic induction process. The technology is patented and the company has just done its hundredth installation, according to founder and CEO Laurence Kemball-Cook.Today itslaunching a campaign on Crowdcube with the aim of raising 750,000 or more to keep scaling a businessthat has been beavering away for several years, with plans to ramp up its headcount and operations.Were sitting right at the middle of the hardware space. I started the idea as a sketch. I guess were creating an industry. We had no blueprints or market to follow  we had to create it, so there was a lot of figuring out to do and core engineering behind the product, Kemball-Cook tells TechCrunch. Weve had to figure out each market and make it fit for that. It was a tremendous challenge.Right now today weve got a team of 25 in the U.K. Weve got operations set up in nine different regions in the world And weve deployed [Pavegen] in 30 countries so weve got a bit of scale already.The product is bestsuited to transport hubs where a large flow of people will pass over it. The largest deployment the company has done so far is ina (non-standard sized) football pitch in a Favela in Rio de Janiro to help power the floodlights around the pitch. Other installations include in Federation Squarein Melbourne,Australia, and at Londons Heathrow airport. Its also today put up a temporary installation outsideLondons Canary Wharf station powering two streetlights with the aim of raising awareness about the technology and its crowdfunding campaign.Pavegenwas founded back in 2009, beginning as a concept bootstrappedby Kemball-Cook inhis bedroom before he tookin a friends and family round of around 100,000 in late 2010. That was followed bya 450,000 seed in 2012. The startuphas been generatingrevenue since then  taking in more than 2.5 million in total to date  and was even profitable in 2013. But now plansto expand operations andheadcountto scale the businessto meet demand for its energy-generating tiles.The goal is to reducethe cost of the kinetic flooring until its thesame price as normal flooring, asKemball-Cook puts it. Whereas the price per unit now iscurrently around the same price as high end train station flooring (so circa 300 per unit).How exactly does Pavegen generate substantial amounts of energy from footfall?Kemball-Cook says its a combination of electromagnetic induction andflywheel energy storage technology which maximizes the energy generated  allowing for a system that generates watts of energy per footstep.Storing energy within the inertia of a flywheel is a highly efficient way to take maximum power out of things, he says. So were really maximizing the amount [of energy] we can get. And were getting up to 7 watts per footsteppedestrianWeve combined several engineering principles in a way thats never been done before. That allows us to capture all the energy from a footstep and then to maintain momentum in a flywheel through the duration of the footsteps.The design of Pavegensenergy generation system means the productwont work everywhere  a dusty corner of your kitchen isnt going to yield enough footfall flow, for instance. But plenty of other locations can, such as busy pavements, hallways, transport terminals, corridors, public squares and so on. The company also has a division focused ontemporary installations working with brands to servemarketing scenarios  such as, for instance, laying the product on a shopping street or during a marathon.If we put around 20 meters of Pavegen on Oxford Street in London we would generate more than enough power thats needed for all the street lighting along that stretch.So A 20 meter array could kick out in the region of 1,500 watts. And we have systems that can do megawatts, so were getting into that space of what solar can do, he adds.Last year an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign to build a road paving product that generates power from solar energy raised more than $2.2 million. A solar cycleway also opened in the Netherlandsin 2014. And while Pavegens first product is designed for pedestrian contact, not cars, the company is also looking to get into that space next.Next for us will be road technology. We know its harder but weve learnt a lot in deploying it in so many different countries, says Kemball-Cook. He pours some cold water on the solar roads concept,arguing that a kineticproductwill prove more economical and reliable as an energy-generating source in areas where there is hightraffic flow than using solar.I think theres some really big issues around maintenance and durability of solar panels on roads that I dont think it will ever pay back in a way that will make it tangible. So I dont believe that covering every single road in the world in solar panels would be a good idea economically. I think it would be really good for driveways inpeoples houses and corporate headquarters but when you look at the cost base for it vs a normal road the economics dont quite add up.Nearer term, Kemball-Cook sees retail beinga big market for Pavegensinitialproduct, given the added customer intelligence itcan offer  based on in-store footfall tracking and analytics. In this scenario, the high tech flooring canactlike iBeacon real-time tracking technology but without the need for batteries to power it.The way we look at it is were a deployable power source that doesnt need batteries. Its not like an iBeacon where youve got to put batteries in every two years and hope that people remember to put them in and all that. We can be a data hub thats self-powered, with a computer in it, that can just be put in the ground and forgotten about and it can run all your services off it. And thats what were really excited about, he says. We can actually tell a retailer in real-time that everyone walking in is going left and how people are moving in different places.Looking further ahead, the startup has serious ambitions  gunning formass global adoption of its kinetic flooringproduct, and becoming part of a renewableenergy mixin urban centers where there is, after all, no shortage of footfall. The next pedestrian is everjust around the corner.Weve spent the past few years really figuring it out. The technology has been really difficult. Lots of research has been taking place to allow us to get to the point where we have a product now. Our vision is that we can be deployed across, in mass, every major city in the world in every country. We aim to be a household name and to be working with every large flooring company, supplying energy technology to go within it. We believe we can break the 200 million revenue mark up tothe next five years, he adds.