Following yesterdays news of Squares entry into the online checkout space, the PayPal-owned payments platform Braintree today announcedthe launch of Braintree Auth. The system letse-commerce platforms give their merchants easier ways to enable payments on their online storefronts. It also lets service providers access customer and transaction data on merchants behalf. The move signals Braintrees attempt to expand its reach into the SMBmarket, as competition with startups like Stripe heats up.Braintree says that it has already partnered with several large e-commerce platforms, includingBigcommerce,WooCommerce, and3DCart, as its newservice launches into private beta here in the U.S.With Braintree Auth, e-commerce platform owners, as well as shopping cart providers and recurring billing services, can now make it easier for their merchant customers to accept credit cards, debit cards, and PayPal payments on their own storefronts through a single interface for shoppers.The system also introduces a secure way for shoppers to store their cards with a website, then have those cards shared with other connected merchants also using Braintree to power their payments.To get started with Braintree Auth, these platforms users (merchants, that is) either create a new Braintree merchant account or sign in to their existing account, using Braintrees mobile-optimized form provided via a Connect with Braintree button.When setup is complete and theyve enabled credit, debit and PayPal payments, theyre then directed back to the partners website.In addition to the above market of e-commerce platforms and service providers, Braintree Auth also has advantages for those businesses thatprovide invoicing, accounting and analytics services to merchants, Braintree notes. Through the new platform, customers of those types of businesses can connect to their Braintree and PayPal merchant accounts, then grant those businesses the ability to access the customer and transaction data theyve collected.DuringBraintree Auths setup, credit cards, debit card payments, and PayPal payments (including support forExpress CheckoutwithPayPal One Touch)are enabled by default. However, once connected,partnerscan take advantage of theBraintree SDKintegrationto expand the types of payments their merchants can accept. That means merchants could choose to offer Venmo, Apple Pay, Android Pay, Coinbase and other, more innovative checkout options to customers that arrive in the future if they choose.Of course, Braintree already has experience enabling payment systems like these for other platforms. For instance, it powers Facebook Messengers transportation platform, which allows Messenger users to order an Uber from within Facebooks Messenger app. Braintree (along with Stripe) also powers Pinterests Buy Buttons, launched last year.Braintree says that the newBraintree Auth platform is available today but only as aninvite-only beta in the U.S. for the time being.