Peter Thiel is having a good month.According to a new SEC filing, low-flying Mithril Capital Management, which Thiel co-founded with longtime colleague Ajay Royan in 2012, is out raising its second fund with a $600 million target. Sources say the fund is already oversubscribed, however, and that itmay hit$1 billion before it holds a final close.Emails and a call to the firm were not returned this afternoon.The vehicle marks the second giant fund that involves Thiel in one weeks time. Last Friday, Founders Fund, the early-stage venture firm he co-founded in 2005,closed its sixth fund with$1.3 billion.Theres seemingly no end to LPs appetite for anything involving Thiel, though its also worth noting that aside from his involvement, the firms dontfeature much overlap.This reporter sat down with Royan in 2014 to discuss Mithril, which is named after a fictional metal from J. R. R. Tolkiens fantasy writings. The way he explained its focus then was as agrowth-stage fund, onefocuses on established companies thatare leveraging tech in some way but arenotnecessarily tech companies. (He compared it, in fact, to a young General Atlantic.)Though Mithril has backed some tech companies, including the cloud service marketplace AppDirect;Classy, which providesonline fund-raising services for nonprofits;and the data analysis giant Palantir (which is one of Founders Funds biggest bets to date), it has numerous bets that betterunderscore its mandate, including to fundcompanies too mature formany VCs yet that dont fit the mold of a private equity investment, either.Among them is C2FO, an eight-year-old, Kansas City-basedcollaborative cash-flow optimization company that tries unlocking capital trapped in trade relationships; Adimab, a nine-year-old, New Hampshire-based antibody drug discovery startup that Wired covered at length recently; and a nine-year-old, Redwood City, Calif.-based surgical robotics company called Auris.The firms funds also have a slightly longer life than most investor funds, whose investing period ends after 10 years. As Royan told me of Mithrils $540 million debut fund and anLP source tells me now of this second vehicle, both pools have a 12-year-long investing period so that Thiel and Royan can make longer-term bets in companies that arent necessarily about to go public or otherwise exit.Thefirms bets tend to be fairly concentrated, too. Its debut fund has been used to back just17 portfolio companies.Royan,who runs Mithrils day-to-day operations, saidduring that 2014 sit-down that the firm has at least $100 million riding on one of its portfolio companies. (He wouldnt disclose which one, though weve always suspected Palantir, given the stunning amounts of money it has raised over the years.)An LP says that roughly 80 percent of its capital is tied up in another six to eight companies, including Adimab, AppDirect, Auris, and Fractyl Labs,a company aiming to better control type 2 diabetes through a device that changes the physiology of the gut.In fact, Mithril  which employs around 10 people but counts Thiel and Royan alone on its investment committee  has seen numerous of its deals attract substantial follow-onfunding, including from J.P. Morgan and Tiger Global Management. Ithasnt exited from any of themyet.