Facebook is still the most popular social network, but its growth has slowed in the U.S., according to a new report out this morning from the Pew Research Center. Meanwhile, more Americans are now using multiple social media sites, allowing platforms likeTwitter, Instagram, Pinterest and LinkedIn to all achieve significant increases in user numbers over the past year, the reportfound.Its been said for some time that Facebook has reached critical mass here in the U.S., and these new figures go further to support that claim  the social network remains the most popular, but its membership levels here have seen little change from where they were in2013. One exception to this is with the older adults demographic.For the first time, more than half (56%) of internet users ages 65 and older use Facebook. Yes: grandma and grandpa are now on Facebook.That brings to mind a recent article where 19-year old Andrew Watts explained how teens today really view todays social media sites. In it, he referred to Facebook as an awkward family dinner party we cant really leave, adding that Facebook is dead to teens, outside of its group functionality. In general, teens find Facebook weird and annoying, he said. Having mom and dad and now the grandparents, too, on Facebook, probably doesnt help with that.While Facebook may have lost its coolness factor, at least according to one report, its user base is still highly active. 71% of U.S. Internet users are on Facebook  the same as in August 2013  and 70% engage with the site daily, up from 63% in 2013. 45% engage with Facebookseveral times per day.And for theportion of the U.S. online population that uses only one social media site (28% do, down from 36%), Facebook is it. 79% of this group uses Facebook as their only social network.While Facebook still dominates, more Americans are expanding their activities to other social media properties. Now, 52% of the online population uses two or more social media sites, up from 42% in 2013.Facebook hasnt really lost the youth audience, though  it has just captured them elsewhere. Its Instagram network is highly popular among young adults, the report found. Instagram increased its overall user figure by nine percentage points, and it sawsignificant growth in almost every demographic group. But more importantly, for the first time, roughly half of Internet-using young adults (18-29) in the U.S. use Instagram, and half of them (49%) do daily. This however, is not a significant change from 2013, Pew notes.LinkedIn has also grown its user numbers, and for the first time, the share of Internet users with college educations on the site has reached 50%. Twitter and Pinterest grew across demographic groups, though the latter still heavily caters to women. 42% of online women are now on Pinterest, compared with just 13% of online men.Engagement onPinterest and LinkedIn hasnt really grown, though, the report says. 17% of Pinterestusers visit the service daily, also roughly the same as 2013. And only13% of LinkedIn usersengage with itsplatform daily, which is unchanged from 2013.Twitter, unfortunately, is seeing declining engagement. 36% of Twitter users visit the site daily, but this actually represents a 10-point decrease from the 46% who did so in 2013, statesPew. Twitter has mindshare in the U.S., and is a top five social network, but the declining engagement speaks a lot to some of the core issues that surround the company today: mainly that people still have a hard time getting it, from getting started after sign up to finding friends, to understanding why they would want to check in with their Twitter network daily.The data in the survey was collected from multiple surveys focused on U.S. Internet users. 81% of all Americans 18 and up are online, Pewsays.