The 2015 Super Bowl between the Patriots and Seahawks has wrapped, but the scores on how well this years advertisements performed are just now rolling in. These coveted time slots reach millions of viewers, and advertisers take advantage by showing some of their best  or, in some cases, most controversial  ads of the year. Adobe this evening hasbeen monitoring the social buzz around this years Super Bowl ads, and is now calling the winners based on posts and sentiments from viewers on Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram and elsewhere across the social web.To come up with its Top 10 list of Super Bowl ads, Adobe used Adobe Social, one of the companys Marketing Cloud solutions, in order to analyze over 4 million social media mentions on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, YouTube, Tumblr, Flickr, Reddit, Foursquare, Google+, WordPress, VK, Disqus, Metacafe, Dailymotion, and other blogs.The algorithm takes into account a combination of total mentions, Super Bowl buzz growth over an average day, sentiment, spend efficiency, and international reach.The following ads (see below) produced the highest combined score, with Proctor & Gambles #LikeAGirl ad snagging the top spot with the highest volume of mentions  over 400,000. P&G also drove the highest positive sentiment across social media mentions, says Adobe, with 84% of mentions focused on feelings like admiration and joy.In case you missed it, the ad was focused on female empowerment, and is meant to inspire an effort to change the meaning of the phrase #LikeAGirl from being an insult into more of a compliment. The overall message involves aproblem facingyoung girls: that confidence plummets during puberty and often never recovers.It may have helped that the ad was designed for social media buzz, thanks to its hashtagged title, and a call out at the end which said, Lets make #LikeAGirl mean amazing things.Still, I have to admit its nice to see this sort of ad beating out thosewhere the women were objectified to sell products. Progress, right?Meanwhile, says Adobe, Nissans ad saw the largest international reach of the top 10 with more than 55% of its buzz coming from outside the U.S. And Avocados of Mexico saw the highest social buzz growth compared to an average day with an increase of 3,000%.Adobe also pointed out that it was the year of the fathers this year with 3 of the top 10 commercials telling a story around dads.Heres the top 10:1. #LikeAGirl
2. Avocados from Mexico
3. Dove Men Care
4. eSurance
5. Clash of Clans
6. Squarespace
7. Nissan
8. Toyota
9. Loctite
10. Anheuser Busch (Budweiser and Budlight)And here are the top 10s ads:1. P&Gs (Always) #LikeAGirl2. Avocados from Mexico3. Dove Men Care4. eSurance5. Clash of Clans6. Squarespace7. Nissan8. Toyota9. Locite10. Anheuser Busch (Budweiser and Budlight)