Following a landmark legalruling earlier this monththat, prior to December 2014, the U.K.s spy agency GCHQ acted illegally by receiving data from the NSAs surveillance dragnets, privacy advocacy organization Privacy International has set up an online formwhere people can submit a request to be informed whether they were spied on in the past.This only applies to retrospective snooping by the British which is what the court in question, the Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT), deemed GCHQ to have improperly engaged in. So no, you cant use this campaign to ask whether the U.K. intelligence agenciesare spying on you now.And it also only applies specificallytothe NSAs Prismsurveillance program,where it collects data direct from U.S. Internetcompanies, and toUpstream,where it taps directly into Internet cables to gather data  and where the data from those programs was passed on to the British. So anyGCHQ-initiated snooping also isntcovered here.But you dont have to be British or live in the U.K. to file a request. Anyone can ask whether their data was improperly accessed.Privacy International writes:The implications of our recent legal victory against GCHQin the Investigatory Powers Tribunalmeans that all intelligence sharing from NSA to GCHQ was unlawful. Because people located all over the world are affected by illegal intelligence sharing, not only British citizens, but anyone in the world, can ask if their records collected by NSA were unlawfully shared with GCHQ.To make a request, Privacy International isasking people to submit an email address and phone number at this point  although its FAQnotes thatthis is likely to only scratch the surface of the selectors GCHQ uses to data-mine its various databases. (It adds that those wanting the most comprehensive records searched would need to provide much more personal information so the organization suggeststhey might bebetter offsubmitting anindividual complaint via the IPTs own form.)Those joining Privacy Internationals group action are asked to agree toauthorize itslegal team to pass their email and phone numberto GCHQ and the IPTin order to seek a declaration my rights under Article 8 and Article 10 [ofthe U.K. Human Rights Act] have been violated and to request my records to be deleted. Submitted data will only be used for the stated purpose of determining whether illegal spying went on, and GCHQ can only store it for theduration of any IPT investigation. So yes, you are handing over data to spy agencies  but only for a very bounded purpose.Why is Privacy Internationalconductingthis campaign? Its a clear avenue to bring additional publicity to the IPTs ruling, and apply pressure onsecretive government intelligence agency practices at the point where their clandestine processeshave been officially ruled illegal. So basically this is about shining more light into the military industrial surveillance complex with the aim ofhaving a wider disinfectant effecton how secretive government agenciesoperate. And thats a cause whichanyone who supports due legal process in a functioning democracycanget behind.If the IPT does find communications data wasillegally shared with GCHQ, Privacy International notes it has a statutory obligation to investigate any complaint made against GCHQ.While the process of joining the campaign is very quick  a case of simply submitting a few piecesof data and clickingtheconfirmation email youre sent  Privacy International notes that the actual requestsmay well take a longtime (count on it being many months, and likely years before this action is completed) to deliver aconfirmationthat youwere indeed snooped on.But this is breaking new ground, given the IPT has never beforeruled against theintelligence and security services  in its entire 15 year history. And as Privacy International adds, Nothing worth doing is easy!