Google SVP Sundar Pichai has given a few hints about what value Google sees inMagic Leap, the very well financedaugmented reality startup that Mountain Viewled a $542 million investment round in last year, and which Pichai also sits on the board of.Hewas being interviewed on stagehere at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona where he also talked up the sprawl of Android  noting how theOSis pushing further and further, onto watches, TVs, even into cars. We care about all form factors, he said.Magic Leap has not yet revealed in detailwhat its building  beyond talkingaboutAR and some kind of lightweight wearable. Pichai wasnt about to whipback the curtain on their hardwarespecifics but did sketch outone scenario where Google sees potential for Magic Leapstech:namelyremoving the inherent clunkinessthat accompanies utilizing a cloud-basedtranslation service on a smartphone when youretrying to have a real-world conversation with another human beingwho speaks a foreignlanguage.In such ascenario, Pichai conceded a smartphone running Google Translate does get in the way of the human communication experience  the implication being that whatever Magic Leap is buildingwill somehow help to smooth out such phone-focusedawkwardness.I work closely with [Magic Leap]. If you seethe experience of what theyre delivering where you can be looking at the real world and you bring computing to work in that context I think is very powerful, said Pichai. Think of the same translate experience we showed you [in a video about Google Translate]while its great the phone does get in the way.The magic is seeing things in another language but having what it means in context. I think these are really powerful use cases, he added. Im very positive that we will evolve these things.However, when it comes toMagic Leaps technology,healso cautioned: Itll take some time.Games just the start for virtual realityAsked how big a role he sees for virtual reality generallyin the future,Pichai described it as a nice evolution of computing, again talking up how it can beincorporated into what people seein a natural way.To be able to enhance it in a natural way without getting in the way of it. Its important. And will enable new use-cases which you couldnt do with your phones, he added.Pichaialso touched on the other strand of VR:the whollyimmersive flavor thats associated with headsets designed to take people away fromtheir real world environment.Only yesterday, here at MWC, HTC became the latest company to announce an immersiveVR headset, called the Vive  in partnership with games company Valve.As with a device like theOculus Rift, the Vivesaim is to allowthe wearer to feel transported out of their real world environs  to somewhere else completely.Having played around with something even as simple as [Google]Cardboard, which shows how for less than $10 you can create that kind of immersive experience shows whats possible, notedPichai.While much of the current VR focus is on gaming, this is just the first wave of VR inPichais view  which makes sense given that Googles own AR specs (Glass) were not designed for gaming but rather to be embedded into everyday life. Thats evidently where Google, which after all makes its money from targeting advertising, sees the real value in VR and AR: as a layer that evenmore tightly connectsback-end computing and big data-mining to real-world human activity.Early on in these technologies the computing power you need tends to be the sort of use-cases which work well with gaming. Because gaming needs a lot of computing power, these devices need a lot of computing to make it work and so theres good synergy, said Pichai. I think gaming will drive the early adoption of this. Just like we saw with PCs or with smartphones Both for us and iOS, games have been a big part of it. But it starts there, then evolves into much broader use-cases. And well see the same in VRAnsweringa question about what he sees coming in the next year in the mobile space,Pichai suggestedwearables will be taking concrete steps and becomingmore often a part of yourlives.Im excited about newer categories like VR, he added.Pichaisuggested embedded cloud processing will be the driver for more people to adopt wearables  byallowing server-side clout to usefullyaugment peoples lives, and do so in a way that increasingly fades into the background (thanks to whatever sleight of hand the likes of Magic Leap has up its sleeve).For me the power of what you see is not just in devices, the focus of a place like this these are computing devices, connected to the cloud When I look at things like machine learning, AI, the kind of computing work we are doing to make these experiences much more powerful  thats what will delight usersin the next few years. I think we are working very hard to make these computing experiences much more seamless, and much more intelligent for users, saidPichai.Most of computing has been automating what people do in their day to day lives. But I think we are at this exciting stage where we can do more. We can be very intelligent and genuinely help people.