Pie, the Singapore-headquartered enterprise messaging service for normals thatwe profiled last summer, hasraised a $1.2 million Series A round as it prepares to monetize its service.The freshly baked funding is lead by GREE Ventures, the investment arm of the Japanese games maker which is particularly active in Southeast Asia. Existing investorsKoh Boon Hwee, Wavemaker Partners, Dennis Goh, and YSS Capitals Ivan Yeo  from the companys $800,000 seed round also participated.Pie is a messaging service for teams with apps across iOS, Android, Macand the web, andintegrations with Dropbox, Google Drive, Box and others. Itsmuch likea simplified version of Slack. Keeping things basicis a very deliberate and ongoing decision from itsfounders Dutch foundersPieter Walraven (a man who knows his messaging apps) and Thijs Jacobs.People like Pie for its unintimidating design and the things it doesnt do, such as no developer focused bells-and-whistles. Were targetingan audience that is underserved by other enterprise chat players  for example, people that dont read TechCrunch,Walraven explained.Pie began life as a Pinterest-like service for mini chats, but late last year it changed direction to fully focus on being alightweight communicationapp for teams. Walraven told TechCrunch that, with no paid promotion, the app is being used by over2,000 companies, from obviousverticals like marketing, advertising and publishing, to less likelycustomers includingflower shops, manufacturing plants, universities, and even churches. Over 30 percent of registered users are active each month, headded.Early servingsgobbled up, its time this Pie became a business. With new funding in the bag, the company is preparing to introduce a paid version of this app, which will includeadmin controlsandcost $3.14159 per user per month. Were not sure if that joke will be lost on non-techies, but we appreciateit all the same.Walraven told us that the company will initially focus heavily on Japan. With plenty of scope forpaid-for enterprise software in the country  GutHub just opened an office in Tokyo to start a similar push  he said that GREE is an ideal partner toopen doors. Existinginvestor Digital Garage is also a seasoned hand at helping overseas firms land in Japan, having worked with the likes of Twitter and Kiip.The team will remain anchored in Singapore, and will grow its headcount, which is currently 10, to develop its apps and push the service forward.Kuanhua Hsu, Principal at GREE Ventures, believes thatPie hits a sweet spot:Were extremely excited to be investing in Pie as we were impressed by the strength of the team and their vision for mobile communication and collaboration. Messaging is of course a mega-trend thats still evolving, particularly on the enterprise side, and we feel the Pie team is addressing a market, particularly amongst SMEs, thats in-between consumer apps like WhatsApp and heavier enterprise software like Slack.Pie  which was an Apple Watchlaunch partner is still finalizing its monetization push, but Walvaren suggested that it will use a reseller model over hiring a potential expensive in-house sales team.The Japanesemarket is really ripe, he added. Itsa high GDP market that has its unique distribution challenges, but that is appealing since, besides several previous-generation players, there are very few competitors.More than half of Pies current userbase is in the U.S., butthe company is not turning its back on the States. Walvaren said it may open a small office in San Francesco in time, but it will largely rely on continued word-of-mouth and viral reach to landnew customers  both paying and non-paying  in the U.S. for now.The Pie team actually met with Slack during a recent trip to the U.S.. Walraven said both sides enjoyeda positive and very open exchange of information and future plans.Were in such adifferent area to Slack though, he said.Its tough to go from being a promising young product to a business with monetization, but Walvaren believes the trail that Slack has blazed shows that the right kind of messaging apps can work for lesstechnical audiences. Slack has started out with the techies and looks like it will push out into new verticals from there, andPies service  while bearing plenty of aesthetic and cultural similarities  is coming from a different angle.