Well, this story keeps getting more and more interesting.According to a newly published account in the New York Post, Pierre Omidyar, the billionaire founder of eBay, is involved inan effort to help Gawker Media in its appeal of a $140 million judgement that was awarded to Hulk Hogan following Gawkers release of a sex tape involving the former wrestler.Specifically, First Look Media, an online news venture that includes the The Intercept and which is financially backed by Omidyar, is reaching out to other media organizations to file friend-of-the-court briefs toinfluence an appeals courts decision in support of Gawker.According to theThe Post, by filing the amicus briefs in support of Gawker, First Look could effectively elevate the trial into a First Amendment rights case, one that would pit the media organizations supporting Gawker against a powerful foe of the organization: billionaire Peter Thiel.As is widely known by now, Thiel revealed earlier this week that hesbeen financially aidingHogans case, to the tune of $10 million. The reason, Thiel said: he deems a Gawker bully whose work often has no connection with the publics interest.Thiel did not respond to requests for comment this week.ButOmidyar said this afternoon thatany perceived animus between himself and Thiel is non-existent. In a tweet following the Posts publication of its story, Omidyar writes that he has never met Peter, that he respects Thielswork as a venture capitalist, and that there is no bad blood.Also, Ive never met Peter, respect his work as vc, and obv disagree on Trump and press. There is no bad blood. https://t.co/2XCZVMyaes Pierre Omidyar (@pierre) May 27, 2016Omidyar was featured periodically in Valleywag, though its coverage was relatively tame compared tosome of its posts about other Silicon Valley executives.Gawkers treatment of Thiel, who was featuredregularly in anow-shuttered Gawker property called Valleywag,was particularlyaggressive. Indeed, in an interview with this reporter in 2009, Thiel likened Gawker to the Silicon Valley equivalent ofAl Qaeda.Other Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, many of whom were also written about by the outlet in less-than-glowing terms, have largely rallied around Thiel since his disclosure.@karaswisher @Recode click bait journalists need to be taught lessons. Far less ethics and more click chasing in press today. Im for #theil Vinod Khosla (@vkhosla) May 26, 2016First Amendment specialists and reporters, however, have voiced concern that Thiels involvement could further fuela practice thats already on the rise, which is that of third-parties funding legal cases in order to serve their own means.You think Peter Thiel is dangerous? Hes so much more dangerous than you think. https://t.co/0NACpbO4My Felix Salmon (@felixsalmon) May 26, 2016Omidyar has been characterized as a crusading but conflict-averse billionaire. In late 2013, he beganfunding First Look Media, an investigative news organization, with an eye toward ensuring that such outlets can functionin an era when page views drive revenue andcat videos often trump public-service journalism.First Look has famously had problems of its own since, as detailed in this Vanity Fair piece last year.Even still, The Intercepthas published a long-line of hard-hitting stories over its short history to date.