Tim Kendalls new job is to make sure Pinterests partners are finding new ways to make money off one of the most engaging platforms on the Internet. Hes been plenty busy since he got started, including launching Buyable Pins.We sat down with him to find out a little bit more about the companys commerce plans.It is tempting to draw a buy button on a product and say youve enabled commerce, Kendall said.In our case we feel like weve built the full end-to-end capability. We now offer 2.5 millionproducts that are buyable.Kendall said, with the buy button, the company has essentially captured all parts of the marketing funnel  from awareness and intent all the way to the purchase. The company has products that sync up with all of these, ranging from ads like cinematic pins, to guided search and finally a buy button.Buyable Pins launched in June earlier this year, giving partners a way to add a button to buy things directly from Pinterest. Its working with a small number of partners at launch, but merchants can also use Shopify and Demandware. Buyable Pins started rolling out on the iPhone and iPad in late June.Kendall was at Facebook for more than four yearshelping the company build its original ad products, and then helped Tumblr design their ad system.Hes beenat Pinterestfor the past three and a half years. Kendall met with CEO Ben Silbermann, who told him that he wanted to do for discovery what Google did for search. And earlier this year he took over the role of GM of monetization, where he got Buyable Pins off the ground.I had this experience as a kid with the Sharper Image  when i was a kid there was no Internet, he said. My window to the outside world was an encyclopedia and TV, I suppose. But I remember [The Sharper Image]coming and it being almost this religious experience. No ones really solved it online, on the phone.The big thing that Ive focused on is making sure, as partners are enabling us to take in their products or take in their content, that we have as much info about their objects theyre handing us as possible, he said. Because if we have a lot of info, we can build amazing experiences, amazing handcrafted catalogs.