Pinterest today said that it would launch what its calling its MarketingDeveloperProgram, in which a set of partners will get access to new tools that allow them to better deliver more engaging content on Pinterest.The tools consist of things like pin scheduling and optimization in the form of APIs for companies that post branded content across a variety of channels, and work with marketing partners to do that, Pinterests head of marketing development partners Jyri Kidwell said.Lotsof these [companies]are already putting content on Pinterest, he said. [Our goal] is to give them tools to more efficiently put content on Pinterest and givethem performance feedback, so they can do more of whats working and less of what isnt.The company also disclosed that its testing its advertising API, which was in limited beta since earlier this year. Companies can promote paid content on Pinterest, but same as its marketing development program, the company is currently restricting the program to a few partners.The marketing development APIsare available for free to its partners,Kidwell said. In the end, those partners charge companies for their tools that help them promote content across multiple networks, and in Pinterest gets additional content that will end up on its platform  which, with the tools, should be higher quality.Weve been ramping up in the last few months; weve published millions of pins through these partners on the content publishing side, he said. Weve seen stronger than average re-pinrates in content through the developerpartners. Thats a really encouraging sign.Pinterest currently works with 10partners, and said it would be carefully selecting partners going forward instead of making it an open platform right away. The company holds Pinstitute sessions, where it brings in companies and agencies to give them best practices and feedback. In all, the goal is to make sure partners know what they are getting into and how to produce the bestcontent.When we enter a partnership we make sure were aligned on what theyre trying to do, Kidwell said. We manage that by carefully choosing who we partner with, setting expectations and working on innovation. We want to enable them to do more and innovate with us on Pinterest for the benefit of brands and pinners.