Placemeter, the urban intelligence platform that launched earlier this year, wants to help businesses measure how many people walk past  and into  their stores. The company is officially launching its first sensor today. Until now, the company was using standard IP cameras.With this new sensor, which will sell for $90, customers will be able to track all the movement in front of their stores  and hence see how their fancy newwindow dressings are helping to convert people who pass by the storeinto potential shoppers.The sensor, which you should easily stick inside a window (its only 0.75 inches thick), does all the data processing locally and then send the results to Placemeters cloud service, where the customers can see the data in their dashboard.The new sensorcan use the local WiFi network or an EDGEGSM connection to push its data into the cloud.With this launch, Placemeter is also announcing a new pricing model for its service. Anybody can try the new sensor risk-free for 90 days. If you keep it after that, youll be billed $90. For this price, users will also be able to see the data from their first two video feeds for free. If users add more sensors or cameras to their subscription, the companys monthly or annual subscription pricing kicks in.At just $90, our Sensor is less expensive by design than traditional security cameras or any other urban intelligence measurement tool, and now our free 90-day trial allows anyone to get started without a big upfront investment, said Florent Peyre, Placemeters COO and co-founder in todays announcement. Placemeters mission is to help build stronger businesses, efficient cities, and innovative neighborhoods worldwide  starting by quantifying the movement of modern cities at scale. With our new free tier, its never been easier to access the urban intelligence data you need.Placemeter is also launching its API today. With this, businesses will be able to take the data from the sensors and cameras and then build their own dashboard or mash the data up with information from other sources. A store may want to correlate Placemeter data with its sales data, for example, or urban planners may want to see their data layered on top of a map or use it inside their geographic information systems. Placemeter users will get free access to the API.To help its bigger clients, Placemeter is also launching team accounts today, so its customers can share their data with different groups of users. At larger organizations, permissions are importantand thats why weve built into this release: were getting pulled upstream into bigger and bigger customer deals, the company tells me. We cant talk about any of those just yet, but our product roadmap is a good indication of the direction were headed.