A couple of things about online learning servicePlatzi immediately set it apart from the other companies in Y Combinators latest batch. First, it is from Latin America  Colombia to be precise. Second, it is profitable. Thats right, its already making money.Online learning is hardly a new concept, but two-year-old Platzi is taking a different approach thats interesting for a couple of reasons.Rather than broadening the availability of the traditional education experience using the Internet, like most MOOC (massive open online course) services, its focused on developingtangible skills.It does lean on tradition, however, by replicating the classroom experience withlive video classes. They also includea stream ofnotes fromstudents, which are later gathered together to provide an overview of each session. Classes typically get 1,000-3,000 attendees, but those who miss out can replay the video, which shows the classnotes being takenin real time.The servicebegan in Latin America with Spanish content when two entrepreneurs, Colombian Freddy Vega andGuatemalan Christian Van Der Henst, got together.Today, Platzi has 80,000 registered users worldwide, and this year it introduced its first English classes.CEO Vega told TechCrunch in an interview that the servicehas a 70 percent student completion rate; thats quite astonishing sincemost MOOCs see just10-20 percent of their registered users sees their courses through in their entirety.So, how is it Platzi getting this level of engagement?In a nutshell, itis about skills and development, not education.Today, people upgrade themselves constantly to update their knowledge. Theyre no longer looking for academic knowledge; they want real experience, Vega said. People are hired for their portfolios and projects. Thats why we focus on the design, marketing andprogramming disciplines that are not well served by current online learning services.Indeed, rather than wheeling out professors and educators, Platzi turns toindustry experts and leaders. Speakers for its English service have included design guruKevin Hale, ProductHuntsErik Torenberg, andY Combinator PresidentSam Altman.Starting a company away from Silicon Valley makes raising capital challenging. That was the case for Platzi. Vega admitted that there is no culture of raising capital for tech startups in Colombia, which shaped the business objectives from the beginning.Weassumed we could never raise and made the company profitable when we arrived here [at YCombinator], wediscovered that it is the exception instead of the rule, he joked.With tens of thousands of users worldwide, and $2.7 million in revenue to date  Platzi is doing$125,000 in revenue per month  some have asked Vega why enter Y Combinator in the first place. The question seems particularly relevantsince the company isnt looking to raise funding  something that seems hard to believe given YCs extensive networkwithin the U.S. VC scene.But Vega said it isnt about money. Its more strategic.YC is theperfect gateway to get into Silicon Valley and kickstart our English service, he explained. We want to get connected to talent, we still have healthy savings and willreinvest most of it to keep our growth.The thinking behind the U.S. expansion is also well-explained on Platzis blog:There is no need to be in Silicon Valley to create a great company. But here live the most important inventors of technology. Our mission is to connect those people who are creating the future of the Internet to you.Platzi has a team of 20 across Bogota, Colombia, and Mexico. Its U.S. contingentcurrently numbers four, but there are plans to bring on more hires to boost the content creation and marketing efforts behindits English service, which is currently available without chargeto encourage adoption.With the Spanish service fairly established, Platzi is making a push on English to boost its presence in the U.S., Europe and other parts of the world where it has seen promising uptake.Our popularity in Europe came by default when we added English, so we stopped prioritizing [a local approach]so much  we want to grow as much as we can in English, Vega said.Update: Article editedto correct the founders surname.