The U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron is in Washington DC this week,lobbying the U.S. Presidenton the need for circumventing thestrong encryption of Internet services.This followsCamerons anti-encryption commentsin the U.K., earlier this week, although government sources subsequently clarified that he does not intend to outlawencryption per se  so much as seek to circumvent itby putting pressure on Internet companies to co-operate with governments by inserting backdoors into their security systems.The why of all this anti-encryption rhetoric is the usualnational security excuse, with Cameronarguing thatU.K. intelligence agencies must be able toaccess user data in extremis  to order to track down potential terrorists.Theseries ofrecent terror attacks, and apparent attempted attacks,in Paris and Belgium are being used as justification for this push and of evidence of imperative. Although, as the Snowden revelations have shown us, we know governments already have vast online surveillance dragnets  dragnets which failed toprevent the aforementioned terror attacks.Indeed, in all likelihood, these vast non-targeted digital surveillance programs havemade the intelligence services job of tracking down a few interesting needles that much harder, given limitedresources end up being stretched by more and moredigital noise. Butthat hasnt stopped Cameron seizing the opportunity tolobby for yetmore onlinesurveillance.Oh, bravo.

The Independent's @DaveBrownToons on tomorrow's edition of #CharlieHebdo
http://t.co/1nTqFUUyUb pic.twitter.com/GSj78n388N Mike Cameron (@mikercameron) January 13, 2015So far so standard political post-terror-attack excuse for digitalsurveillance crackdown operating procedure.But thats not all. The U.K. P.M.isalso today banging his politicaldrum from Washingtonon theneed for governments and companies to tighten their cyber security, in the wake of theSony hack. And hastraveled over the pondwith an entourage of U.K. cyber security startups in tow  to ostensibly show off British startup talent in the online security space.In an interview with the BBC, Cameron said U.S. and U.K. security agencies would be stepping up their co-operation in this area, and staging joint cyber war games  formingso-called cyber cells, comprised of FBI and MI5 agents working together and sharing more data about potential online threats.The co-operation arrangement has beendubbed unprecedented by Downing Street.The first exercisewill apparently be astaged attack on the financial sector, and willtake place later this year, according to the BBC.Its not just about protecting companies, its about protecting peoples data, protecting peoples finances. These attacks can have real consequences to peoples prosperity, Cameron told the BBCs political editor, Nick Robinson, in a videointerview.Now you might thinkthesetwopolitical positions stand in opposition  i.e. on the one hand calling for a reduction in online security by requiring Internet companies perforate their own encryption, while on the other announcing measures apparently aimed at bolstering online security against hackers.Howeverthe fuzziness of political techno rhetoric allowsfor a very large slice offudge to be so served. Especially as muchmainstream media either does not understand and/or is not interested inconveyingtechnologydiscrepancies  meaningthe politicians get to spin without being unspun. And they know that.We need to be able, in extremis, to interrupt the contacts between terrorists, whether they are using fixed phones, mobile phones or the Internet, Cameron went on to say in the BBC interview, when asked what he wantedthe U.S. President to do about makingcompanieslike Facebook and Google co-operate with tracking down terrorists.We both face the same challenge and we need to work with these big companies, we have good relationships with them, to make sure that we can keep people safe. So its a conversation to have with the President, which Ill be doing today and tomorrow, and a conversation we both need to have with the companies concerned, he added.Robinsons follow up question to thesecomments was not to ask Cameron to square the insecurity circle of coercing a perforation of corporate encryption on the one hand whilst warning of the dangers of corporate hacking threats on the other.Rather heasked Cameron whetherPresident Obama calls you bro.UmmmNow theres another theory that can in factsquare Camerons crypto policy inconsistencies.This theory suggeststhat talk of cyber cells and cyber war games is just a smokescreen to deflect the mediaand bamboozle the voting public while both U.K. and U.S. governments seek to do aback-room data-sharing deal that will subvert the security of Internet companies in the interests of expanding government agencies surveillance capabilities  helped along by respective national agendas apparently being aligned on this point.After all the FBI has beenpublicly critical of U.S. Internet companiestightening their encryption. As hasthe head of the U.K.s GCHQ.Sojoint U.S.-U.K. cyber cells mightbe a cloak for more than a few cyber war games. The whole closer cyber security co-operation initiativecouldalso be a vehicle for passing encryption keys into perforated Internet services or a channel for more user data to flow.As dataprivacyrights expert Caspar Bowden has noted, section 702 of theU.S. Foreign Intelligence and Security Act (FISA) already allows forspying on foreign nationals. And if the PMof the foreign body in question also wants the ability to spy on domesticcitizens, well then, theres no diplomatic blocker standing in the way  beyond the potential for some negative publicity for a government thatasks another to subvert the crypto of all its own citizens.Hence the combination ofkeeping people safe counter-terrorism rhetoric beingdirected at encryptedInternetservices by Cameron, coupled with him laying down a parallel smokescreen ofjoint U.K.-U.S. cyber security initiatives. Or thats one reading of theseotherwiseconflicting Torytechnology insecurity-security policy proposals.Thistheorycertainly makes Camerons incoherent technology policy pronouncements better add up.Which just leavesthe question ofwho in the U.K. wants to vote for a Prime Minister who isasking a foreign governmentto spy on Britishcitizens?The Prime Minister is pleading with a foreign power to enable mass-surveillance of British people
1k UK followers => https://t.co/MfcNMsXkC9 Caspar Bowden (@CasparBowden) January 16, 2015Oh and the other pressing question:how will U.S. Internet companies respond to a fresh round ofpolitical pressure overtheir use of strongencryption? Will they stand firm, a laApples Tim Cooks prior comments on iMessage encryption(If the government laid a subpoena to get iMessages, we cant provide it.Its encrypted and we dont have a key.)?Or will they bestrong-armedinto adding backdoors into mainstream services, thereby making them less secure against hackers, as well as accessible to spooks?TechCrunch contacted Apple, Facebook and Google to ask for their response to Camerons latest anti-encryption comments and will update this post with any response. At the time of writing none of the companies had responded to a request for comment. Update: A Facebook spokesman declined to comment.