Pushbullet, the company that makes a handy utilitythat moves notifications, links and files between devices, is out today with a newapp called Portal, which focuses on file transfer alone. Launching first on Android where its able to more deeply integrate with the OS, Portal is designed to make it easier to move files  even large files  betweenyour computer andyour Android phone.While the companys flagship app Pushbullet also supports file transfers, what differentiates Portal is that it uses your local Wi-Fi network to make the file transfer. That means both your computer and phone have to be connected to the same network in order to use the app, while Pushbullet doesnt have this limitation. However, that also means that Portal is better at handling very large files or many files at one time.Files moved with Portal are transferred much faster over Wi-Fi because theres no uploading and downloading as with Pushbullet, CEO Ryan Oldenburg explains. That makes it especially useful for things like loading a video onto your phone ahead of your flight, for example.There are also no file limits in place, so you dont have to worry about whether or not a file transfer will work with Portal.To get started, you first download the Portal app from Google Play, then visit portal.pushbullet.com. Using the Android app, youll then scan a QR code that displays on the website in order to connect the two devices. Afterward, you simply drag a file to your web browser and its transferred to your phone.The app also allows you to browse, open and share the files youve transferred. Or, if you prefer, you can browse through your transfers within your phones files instead by locating the Portal folder. In addition, Portal is integrated into Androids built-in file browser. Transfers will be listed on the Recent Files screen, the company says, or you can browse through your Portal files from the Android file picker.While there are a number of file transfer utilities for Android users (e.g. FilePush,Filedrop),Portals advantage is that it doesnt require a desktop application or browser extension to first be installed on your desktop or laptop computer  you can use it from a web browser alone. That makes it greatfor when youre trying to snag something off a computer you dont own  like a friends computer or work laptop, for instance.The app also to some extent competes with cloud services like Dropbox, which offers a simple interface for making files available acrossdifferent devices. But these services are also hosting files, which means users pay storage fees. And because Portal files move over your local network, theres a privacy angle to the app as well  files arent being placed on Pushbullet servers.Oldenburg says Pushbullets apps today have millions of users. The apps are free, though, which means the company isnt yet making moneyfrom app sales or in-app purchases. However, Pushbullet raised $1.5 million in seed financing earlier this year, allowing the startupadditional time to focus on product development ahead of revenue. (The CEO says that freemium would be a  natural fit.)Portal isa free download on Google Play here.Oldenburg notes an iOS version is also in the works.