Prenetics, a Hong Kong-based medical technology company, has raised a $10 million Series A round for its DNA testing technology that helps doctorsprovide more accuratediagnoses and better understand their patients.The company claims that190,000 people die every year in China alone from adverse reactions to medication prescribed to them.Yet those fatalities could be avoided witha dose of technology. Armed with genetic testing capabilities,Prenetics says it can helpmedical professions prescribe medicine more accurately, with more effective results and lowered risks of side effects.Prenetics iGenes product uses a non-invasive buccal swab test  thats aDNA collection from the inside a patients mouth/cheek  which generates results for physicians with 48 hours straight to its mobile app. That information, the company claims, can help spot potential side effects from medicine and allow for more precise prescriptions  potentially saving lives and pain for patients.Companies likeUber, Spotify and Airbnb have changed our family lives today, Prenetics CEO Danny Yeung told TechCrunch in an interview. But technology still hasnt impacted medicine.Many people willgo to see adoctor but wont be awarewhich drugs are best for them. Its a big problem, 4.7 million peoplesuffer from misdiagnosis just in the U.S. and Chinaeachyear.Prenetics was initially called Multigene, and started out as a spin-off from Hong Kongs City University. The companypreviously raised $2.65 million when itoffered pre-natal screening for expectant moms. But it has wound back that effort in favor of using genetics tobattle issues withthe potential to make a wider impact, Yeung said of the change in focus.Yeung, who previously ledGroupons East Asia business and the only member of Prenetics management team and board without a doctorate degree,joined Prenetics last year as CEO because he believes theresso much possibility for disruption in medicine.He said the company plansto launch products focused onother areas this, it will alsoexpand its current focus on China and Hong Kong and move into Southeast Asia.Were focused on precision medicine, Yeung said. Were making sure that we have specific products geared towards cancer and genetic diseases.Curing cancer this isnt. But Prenetics believes that its tests  which cost less than $500 per patient, but are soldto medical professions directly not end consumers  canhelp with early diagnoses which, in turn, boosts the potential to beat cancer and other serious illnesses.Everything we do is backed up by evidence and lab reports, Yeung said, when I ask him if Prenetics is vulnerable to the same issues Theranos experienced in the U.S.. Oursequencing is at a 99.9 percent accuracy and [were] using public data to match how people metabolize.Prenetics currently has 35 staff, 22 of whomwork in its laboratories. Right now,it is hiringfor a range of positions  including aCTO, and in business development, medical affairs, operations, and the lab  and it has hooked in with some very strategic investors to help its push.This Series A round was put together by Ping An Ventures, the VCarm of one of Chinas largest insurance groups, with participation from Venturra Capital, an Indonesia-based firm that includes theLippo Group, an Indonesian super-conglomerate with more than $15 billion in business assets, among its LPs. Existing investors500 Startups and COENT Venture also took part alongsideCapital Union Investments.Landing those names, and Ping An in particular, is a validation of Prenetics tech and ambitious, Yeung said, while insurance companies has an obvious interest in improving the medical treatment that patients receive.Sequencing your DNA and making sure youre treated properly is going to be the norm in the next few years. Theresa significant population that needs this kind of testing, he added.