Editors Note:Kevin Skobac is a senior vice president for innovation, digital and social at SS+K and the co-founder of SS+K Labs, an in-house incubator of creative technologies.For many years weve been blissfully riding a personal digital media revolution. Better technology has solved more problems, enabling us to do more, consume more, and create more. The excitement and upside ofnew technologies and platforms has driven us to adopt them and surrender to them without considering the potential long term consequences. As a result, we are slowly approaching a digital day of reckoning, where well be forced to consider the ramifications of our choices in our individual lives.Consider how our relationship with photographs has changed. When we moved from film to digital cameras the number of photos we took at a time jumped from tens to hundreds. And now with high quality phone cameras weve gone from hundreds of photos to thousands every year.We snap pictures all day, allow them to back up to Google, post one or two to Instagram or Facebook, and then dont think about them again. Thousands of photos pooled into tens of thousands. My personal Google+ archive totals over 68,000 as of today.The effort we had to put into organizing and printing our photo collections is gone. But as a result its become incredibly difficult to find any particular picture weve taken  like that favorite family photo  a digital needle in a haystack.We know its stored or postedsomewhere, but theres no good way to search for it, and depending on where we put it the metadata, or even the photo itself, is gone. So as impressive and liberating as technology like Google+s auto-backup and auto-awesome technology is, being more selective,deliberate, and hands-on with photography is starting to seem pretty important again.Our written thoughts and memories may be in even worse shape. For most, long gone are the days of notebooks exchanged for Geocities or Live Journal pages, for blogs, for Twitter and Facebook. We may be recording more thoughts than ever, but theyre fragmented in small pieces across many platforms that we have minimal control over.Facebook and Twitter didnt even have comprehensive archival search until lastmonth, making it difficult to find our own crumbs. Worse, many once-popular sites we used to record our intimate thoughts dont exist anymore, casualties of the fickle web and startup culture.The good news is, a few companies are thinking about how to prevent this digital amnesia. The most important of these, the Internet Archive, is a non-profit building a digital library to store all of the information were creating around the web that we will regret having lost when websites shut down without warning.Other companies like Timehop are becoming popular because they dig into our old content and resurface it to remind us of all of the memories we lost track of. Timehop keeps track of your social properties and pushes you a digest of the text, photos, and check-ins you recorded exactly 1 to 5 years ago that day.But we cant just rely on companies to stave off a digital future defined by too much personal content, spread across too many places that we dont control. We have to take control for ourselves creating redundancies in how we save our images and how we control our identity.Backing up content in trusted places that peoplecontrol themselves is a must. IFTTT is a great service you can use to make sure all of your social content is also saved in other places.And while its trendy to write on Medium or Quora, having a personal self hosted blog guarantees your thoughts arent tied to the fates of publishing platforms you cant control.The digital revolution has changed and improved our lives in countless ways. We can now easily create, consume, and interact more than ever before. And it certainlyfeelslike everything digital is permanent. But our blind enthusiasm is starting to catch up with us. Lets not look back with regret on memories weve lost. Instead, lets resolveto take control of our digital lives.