Call it the Taylor effect: it looks like another high-profile musician is sharpening his arrows to take aim at how streaming music services pay artists. Music from the artist currently known as Prince has been pulled from Spotify and Rdio.And Deezer  where at the time of writing Princesmusic is still streaming  has confirmed to us that it has received a takedown notice and is in the process of removing Princes music, too.For now, the music is still streamingon two platforms  Google Music All Access and Tidal,the hi-definition streaming service acquired by Jay-Z and co-owned by many others.It looks like this is part of a broader move by the musician to take the music off platforms that allow people to stream tracks for no fee.Princes publisher has asked all streaming services to remove his catalog. We have cooperated with the request, and hope to bring his music back as soon as possible, Spotify notes on its Prince artist page. Rdio also confirmed to us directly that it has followed a request to remove tracks (now absent on the Rdio artistpage for Prince).Google, meanwhile, tellsus that so far it has not received a notice and so the streamed music continues to flow freely (so to speak).Tidal has not respondedto our request for comment, and for the record, neither has Prince.(Apple Music, it should be noted, didnt have Prince to begin with, along with some other notable gaps including The Beatles.)For those who follow Prince on Twitter or Prince more generally, you may have seen this one coming.On June 26, he retweeteda post on The Daily Beast called Taylor Swift Is The New Prince, which detailed how Princewas Taylors precedent for musician activism against the Big Music and the big labels. He also quoted from the articles description of theunfairness of services like Spotify:Spotify is co-owned by record labels, who hold 20 percent of the companys stocks, Prince noted. Essentially, streaming has offered labels the ability to pay themselves twice while reducing what is owed to artists from pennies on the dollar to fractions of pennies on the dollar. Spotify regularly updatesthe world on how much it pays out to artists from plays on its platform, but it doesnt seem to have everyone convinced.As with his previous fights with Warner Music (detailed in the Daily Beast article), Prince seems to beadvocating for something more sophisticated, where artists have more control over how their music appears on these services. Another post he retweetedfrom Billboardnotes that the Department of Justice is considering a reform of therules that govern how music publishers license digital music.Prince also has exercised his rights over digital services in the past. Last November, at the same time that he pulledTwitter and Facebook accounts, Princealso took most ofhis official tracks off YouTube. The YouTube move leads meto wonder if there is simplya delay on getting his tracks off Google Music All Access.In the past, Prince hasbeen especially un-simpatico with people who giveout free access to his work. In January 2014, he sued 22 fans for $1 million each for linking to bootlegs of his concerts. In 2010 he gave a scathing criticism of the digital music industry in an interview with the UKs Daily Mirror(the bigger interview is worth a read).The internets completely over. I dont see why I should give my new music to iTunes or anyone else. They wont pay me an advance for it and then they get angry when they cant get it, he told the newspaper. The internets like MTV. At one time MTV was hip and suddenly it became outdated. Anyway, all these computers and digital gadgets are no good.They just fill your head with numbers and that cant be good for you.Youll see, however, that Prince is not completely turned off all free digital streams, especially if they can help with marketing rather than simpleconsumption. Yesterday hepublicisedthe release of a new track, Hardrocklover, on Soundcloud.Radio.com, which appears to have been the first to spot the Prince removal on Spotify, points out that Prince had been working with Tidal already, specifically around his Rally 4 Peace concert streaming on the service in May, part of a bigger program that Tidal has been building up of free streamed video events to promote its larger paywalled offering.Deezer sounds like it may beworking on getting the music back, but in the meantime a slow disappearance of popularmusic from these services gradually devalues them and theirlisten to anything proposition.We feel very strongly that consumers who pay for a streaming service should ultimately have access to everything they want. If people find themselves locked out of content they want, there are two ways theyre going to go to get the content for free  to YouTube, or illegal download, Deezer CEO Hans-Holger Albrechttold TechCrunch.If we go as an industry into broad exclusivity for platforms were going to kill the model  its as simple as that. People pay for our service because they want to get all the music they love in one place. Forcing consumers to go to three or four streaming services to get all the music they want will drive them back to piracy.