There have been plenty of premature obituaries for privacy fallingfrom the lips of tech company CEOs in recent years. Yet the idea that people have a sub-set ofpersonal informationthey wish to keepoutside the public sphere persists despite all the incentives and encouragements for the proverbial userto beas naked as can be when it comes to sticking theirdata online.Even the kingpin privacy slayer himself, Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg, kept the birth of his daughterMax quiet for severaldays last November  before publishing a 2,000+ word open letter on December 1 to mark the moment publicly. Back in 2013, he also famously boughtmultiple properties around his own Palo Alto home, affording himself and his family the luxury of a large, private domesticspace with no prying neighbors peering over the fence. Privacy dead? Hardly.The latest confirmation that privacy remainsstubbornly lodged in the human psychecomes via a new study,published today by the Pew Research Center, which probes Americans attitudes to privacy acrossa range of different theoretical scenarios  where some advantageous trade-off is suggestedin exchangefor handing over personal data.The Internet adage that if its free youre the product applies by degrees here. Pews researchers sketched outa rangedifferent scenariosto survey participants, to test their risk-benefit calculations and attitudes around sharing, and  unsurprisingly  a spectrum ofresponses was the result.Aphrase that summarizes their attitudes is, It depends, writes report authorLee Rainie, director of Internet, Science, and Technology research at Pew Research Center. Most are likely to consider options on a case-by-case basis, rather than apply hard-and-fast privacy rules.The key takeawayhere is that privacy is adeeply personal issue. One personshappy to share might be anothers personal TMI red line. So while Zuck is clearly more than comfortabletellingthe world whathis new year challenge is everyJanuary, viaa public Facebook post, hes evidently less happy about letting anyonesee whats going on in his livingroom.Point is: You cant divorce privacy from the individual. People are different  and so theres no single answertohow muchprivacy people are happy totrade away to use a particular product/service.Frankly, if Pew had been able to synthesis some hard-and-fast privacy rules it would have been far more surprising.Thesix privacy probing scenarios Pew detailed to research participants were:an employer installing surveillance cameras with facial recognition technology after a spate of workplace thefts, with the footage set to be retained indefinitely and potentially used to track employee attendance and other performance measures; a doctors office using a health information website to manage patient records which will make it easier to schedule appointments if you agree to upload your health data; a grocery store offering loyalty discounts in exchange for tracking purchases and selling the data to third parties; an auto insurance company offering discounts in exchange for monitoring driving speedand location; full access to a school reunion social media website in exchange for being profiled for on-site ad serving purposes; and a connected thermostatthat analyses your domestic energy usage and could potentially save you money but which shares data on domestic activity with the company that made the gizmo.While the research organizationmade surenot to explicitly reference any specific companies in thesescenarios, you could easily transpose a few tech giants onto itsexamples  whether its ad-profiling social network Facebook or Google-owned learning thermostat maker Nest, to name two obvious ones.Participants in the study were asked whether the bargain they were beingoffered in return for sharing theirinformation was acceptable, not acceptable or whetherit depends on thecontext of the choice. Theywere then asked to describe in their own wordswhat factors contributed to making their selection.What did Pew find? As noted above, a lot of variation, withgenerally no consistent demographic patterns emerging in responses  whether based onage, gender, income levelor other criteria. But interestingly if you rank the six scenarios by how acceptable or not they are, the least acceptable turns out tothe last one  involvingthe Nest-style smart thermostat. Just 27 per cent of participants said they would find this scenario acceptable vs 55 per cent saying they would not. A further 17 per cent said it would depend on the circumstances.Given Zuckerbergs own fiercely protective display ofprivacy when it comes tohis own home, this is reallynot so very surprising. If you want to talk about privacy having a focal point, for the majority of people that point is going tobe their home  i.e. their personal,private space. So smart home technologies like Nest, which entailthe harvestingof in-home activity by a commercial entity, which may then make use of that data in various unknown ways, pose an obvious threat to the sense of peacepeople derive from having a placewhere they get to shut the world out.(Although, in Nests specific case, the company stresses it does not share any user data with its parent, Google/Alphabet, and says it only gathers data required to operate the service. You can read its privacy policy here which does include a provision that it may share non-personal information (e.g. aggregated or anonymized customer data)publicly and with partners. It adds: We take steps to keep this non-personal information from being associated with you and we require our partners to do the same. As with many such policies, the users data privacy rights potentially terminate if the company is sold, with Nest noting: Upon the sale or transfer of the company and/or all or part of its assets, your personal information may be among the items sold or transferred.We will request a purchaser to treat our data under the privacy statement in place at the time of its collection.)And while you might think the notion of an employer deploying face-detecting surveillance cameras thatcan keep tabs onstaff attendance, Big Brother style, might seem highlyobjectionable, Pews researchers in fact found a majority (54 per cent) of respondents were accepting of this scenario  perhaps because being in a workplace already entails having signeda contract agreeing to abide by athird partysrules. So, in other words: Their house, their rules.But when it comes to a persons own home? My house, my rules For example Pew flags up onesurvey respondents explanation for rejecting the trade-off of potentialenergy savings in exchange for having their domestic habits tracked as an emphatic declaration that: There willbe no SMART anythings in this household. I have enough personal data being stolen by thegovernment and sold [by companies] to spammers now.So it looks like smart home startupsreally need tobe puttingprivacy front and center of their proposition if they want to appeal to the widest possible user-base.Pewsresearchers also recorded regular expressions of anger about the barrage ofunsolicited emails, phone calls, customized ads or other contacts that inevitably arises when theyelect to share some information about themselves  with, for instance, study participants complaining about the lack of relevant ads foisted into their eye-line,and wishing for more control over themarketing content they are being exposed to.Another concern flagged up by the research is the lack of transparency about what companies are doing with harvested data. On this point,European politicians finally agreed newdata protection rulesat the back end of last year which will tighten the regions rulesaround data processing consent  with a requirement thatcompanies doing business in the European Union obtain unambiguousconsent from consumers for use of their data. And gain consent again if they wish to use the data for adifferent purpose than originally state.Some Americans may wish the U.S. had similar rules incomingOn the flip side, the Pew report also flags up the obvious point: that people do like a free service. Although with just 33 per cent of survey respondents identifying the social media trade-off scenario as acceptable to them (vs 51 per cent saying its not) youd be forgiven for thinking otherwise. However withthat particular scenario Pew notes there wasa considerable difference in responses based on age  with some 40 per cent of those under age 50 saying the deal is acceptable vs just a quarter (24 per cent) of those aged 50 or above being ok with the trade-off.Pewalso suggests a general dislike of social media and the information that people share on those platforms mightbe coloring respondents views of the bargain being presented here  and thus skewing responses to the negative for that particular scenario.That then begs the question what is the cause of thisgeneral dislike of social media? And might itnot, at least in part, be associated with the technologysprivacy-eroding habits? Pews report details some comments it gatheredfrom participants who were not willing to accept this trade-off  including plenty of disgruntled views about the volume of marketing content they are encountering on such sites these days.e.g.So it may be a case of some Facebook fatigue creeping in here.Other comments suggest the entire social media category is a victim of Facebooks category dominating success  with social media in general inextricably linked toFacebook, making respondents see little point in using another similarwebsite. (For example, one participant is recorded saying:I have enough social media sites to manage. Id rather they use Facebook. The privacysettings are similar to whats described and those are fine by me. But I dont want to startusing another site.)Facebooks success and ubiquity in the social media space might therefore be said to have poisoned the well for others trying to encourage similar public social sharing  unless they are offering something distinctly different. The more boundedform of social sharing that goeson on mobile messaging apps is one example of a successful alternative social sharing model (so successful that Facebook shelled out $19 billion to buythe dominant player, WhatsApp, back in 2014).Pew also asked its participants for their views on the future of privacy, and foundthatmost ofthe focus group participants were downbeat on this  with many believingthe trend towards surveillance and data capture isinexorable.Many alsosaid they believeyounger Americans are not sensitive about personal privacy. (Although the success of youth-friendly social messaging app Snapchat may suggest otherwise)The Pew studyis based ona survey of 461 U.S. adults and nine online focus groups with 80 participants, with research conducted January 27 and February 16 last year.