Hacker Ryan Collins pleaded guilty to stealing a number of nude photos  including ones of Jennifer Lawrence  from Apples servers. He was snared by the FBI, and in the process of the trial, itbecame clear that the hack didnt involve Apples services being compromised through brute-forcing or password cracking, but rather that they were the result of social engineering, in the form of a phishing attack.At the time when the images leaked online, rumors were running wild that Apples iCloud services had crumpled under brute-force password-hackingattacks. Apple denied this at the time, andclaimedthat the hacks weremore likely to be a phishing scam. It is now becoming clear that this was indeed the case.Back in 2014, a number ofphotographsof celebrities in various states of undress found their way onto the internet after a series of email and Apple iCloud accounts were compromised. Collins wasable to download the backups of the iCloud accounts, and apparently extracted the compromising photos from there.People store important private information in their online accounts and in their digital devices, said United States Attorney Eileen M. Decker. Unauthorized access to such private information is a criminal offense.According to the prosecutors, he was able to access more than 120 different Gmail and iCloud accounts, and he is being tried fora felony violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Its worth noting that he isnt being tried for actually uploading the images online. It isnt clear whether the DoJ is pursuing an investigation into other people who may have had a hand in spreading the images.Collins has not yet been sentenced, but faces a maximum of five years behind bars, along with fines of up to $250,000. It is expected that he will accept a plea agreement resulting in an 18-month sentence.Apple added a guide on identifying phishing e-mails to their site in June of last year  after the account hacking scandal broke. In it, they advise that if you receive an unsolicited email requesting personal information, do not provide any information without first checking directly with the company that appears to be the one requesting this information. Prudent advice.