Editors note:Eric Gundersen is the CEO of Mapbox.Locationdatais highly sensitive. It contains information about where we live, our daily habits and our network of friends. We discover new places to go; avoid traffic on the way there; swipe to meet new friends once weve arrived; and even turn up the thermostat before we get home. Whendataknows this much about us it requires careful protection.The U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals is likely just weeks away from amajor ruling on whether the Fourth Amendmentprotects ausersdata, and developers need to be prepared for whatever decision comes down.There are clear technical approaches to securinglocationdata.Datamust not only be anonymized and aggregated, but also secured with techniques like on-device encryption and tamper-proof hardware security keys. Measures like these can protect against unauthorized access. But what happens when the authorities tell you to remove those safeguards, unlock those keys and look at thatdata?We live in a climate of heightened government interest in personaldata. We need to recognize this, and to design our systems with unavoidable government intrusion in mind. AnACLU records requestof 250 police departments nationwide found that virtually all respondents said they track cell phonelocationdatamaintained by cellular companies, and only a tiny minority reported consistently obtaining a warrant and demonstrating probable cause to do so.The hard work of law enforcement officials protects our safety and security, but this type ofdataseizure isunconstitutional. The Fourth Amendment requires police to get a warrant before searching private places or documents for everything short of major emergency scenarios. The warrant requirement ensures that officials demonstrate probable cause to an independent judge before conducting asearch, in a process that mandates a specific description of the information theyre seeking.Law enforcement officials argue thatlocationdataheld by third parties should not be afforded Fourth Amendment protections. But in a world where over half of the 1.3 million published iOS apps arelocation-enabled,locationdatahas to be protected, regardless of where its stored, if our constitutional rights are to have any meaning.The most important thing developers can do to secure userdatais to only store it in highly aggregated and anonymized forms  If you dont have something, there is no reason for someone to break your door down to get it. But even in anonymized datasets there are little details that, when combined with other datasets, can leak information. Its therefore essential that we protect userdataboth technically and legally.Developers who deal withlocationdatahave a responsibility to protect user information to the full extent of the law, and to never disclose it to law enforcement officials except in response to a probable causesearchwarrant, or in case of a life-threatening or similarly dire emergency.Every American developer should update their law enforcement guidelines and say clearly that they will only disclose userlocationinformation in response to a probable causesearch warrant.Studies from Google and the Boston Consulting Group(BCG) estimate that the geolocation space is growing 30 percent each year. Weve only begun to understand the potential oflocationdata and how it will influence our lives. The benefits will be enormous, and we can deliver them without a cost to users privacy  if were careful.Most users are choosing to share their locationdatain exchange for those benefits. It is now the responsibility of developers to safeguard their users privacy. The way we manage thisdatatoday is critical to our collective future.