Sorry to disappoint you, recentApple Watch buyers, but youre not going to be able to use one of those brand new Apple Watch strap trading sites to get a whole new, extra watchband when your Apple Watch arrives. In case you missed it, a couple of Apple Watch band trading sites recently popped up, reportedly offering owners the ability to swap out the includedextra watchband with someone elses for a small fee. Unfortunately, you dont actually get two full watchbands with your purchase, despite what Apples website seems to claim.The larger of the two sites, BandSwapper, has been getting some recent blog coverage for what initially sounds like a brilliantidea. The site says it aims tohelp Apple Watch Sport owners switch out their unused strap by exchanging it for one of a different size and/or color. BandSwapper would collect a $6 fee then send back the new Sport Band the customer requested.The ideafor band-swapping came about because you it would allow you to order combinations of watch and straps that wouldnt otherwise have been available. (Some straps are only sold with certain watches, that is.) But it became even more attractive an option when it appeared that Apple Sport Watch models actuallyshipped with two bands: one for smaller wrists and one for larger wrists. The confusion came in because Apples website readstwo bands when listing what its Sport Watch package included.After receiving your Watch, you would, in theory, only end up using one of the bands  whichever was the correct size for your wrist. The other you could swap!Another website,StrapSwap, is offering a similarswapping service. But there, buyers and sellers connect directly and mail each other unused straps or agree to meet up locally.The idea, frankly, seemed genius.Sadly, its not going to work exactly like that.You see, Apple Sport Watch models technically do come with two bands, but in practice, its not two full bands, but rather three pieces. Theres one piece that attaches to one end of the watch with the fastener, and then two additional bands (the side with the holes) that attach to the other side of the watch. These two bands come in two different lengths  a S/M size for smaller wrists and an M/L size for larger wrists.In other words, you wont have an entire extra band to swap.Now, I guess you could start a new fashion trend and swap your extra half band for a half band of a different color. (I betthis look would have really taken off back in the 80s!). But thats not what people thought they were signing up for, in many cases. You could also swap out your current band (the two pieces) in case you have buyers remorse over your original selection, or just get bored with the band after some time.Or, as noted above, you could swap for a band that you wouldnt have otherwise been able to order because it only comes with a particular watch model.ButBandSwapper is adding to the confusion by misleadingpotential customers who are questioning whether or not there are two full bands included with Sport Watch purchases by referring to those claims as speculation.Speculation is not confirmation. #AppleWatch #BandSwapper #SpeculationIsNotConfirmation BandSwapper (@bandswapper) April 10, 2015.@earthTOmitchel thanks for the article. Your update mentions readers have pointed out.. Please note that speculation is not confirmation. BandSwapper (@bandswapper) April 10, 2015However, we have definitively confirmed  with very good authority  that the Sport Watch comes with 3 pieces, and not 2 full bands.Plus, you can look at the picture here and see it for yourself.I know, I know. Im sad too.