The U.K. government is lining up a new piece of legislation to expand the statesdigital data capture powers. The incoming bill, the Investigatory Powers Bill, was announced in the Queens speech this week. Ithas not yet been published in draft form so specificdetails of what is being planned remains unclear, but in recent times the Conservative partyhas been banging the drum to expand the type and volume of captured comms data. The U.K. Prime Minister has even appeared to suggest that strong encryption should be outlawed.The Telegraph newspaper this week suggested new powers tobe outlined in the Bill will require companies like Google and Facebook to give U.K. intelligence agencies access to the encrypted conversations of suspected terrorists and criminals. That scenario presupposesInternet companies have the ability to access their users encrypted messages. While that is certainly true for some digital services with a sloppy attitude to security (or with business models that rely on data mining their users), others, such as Apple, claim they intentionallydo not hold encryption keys whichpresumably sets up a legal clash with security- and privacy-conscious techcompanies and the U.K. government. Doesthe Torygovernment intend to make iMessage illegal? That really will be a *gets popcorn* momentThe Torys prior attempt to expand the states data capture powers, the Communications Data Bill  widely criticized as a Snoopers Charter, on the grounds that it would have required ISPs to retain detailed data onweb usage  failed to pass through Parliament owing to the lack of support from the ConservativesLib Dem coalition partners. The new Torymajoritygovernmenthas no such limitation.Former Lib Dem MP Julian Huppert, who lost his seat in the election this month but was a prominent critic of the Communications Data Bill, tells TechCrunch he hasconcerns about the surveillance powers thatthe government will be pushing for.Well have to see how much theyll try and throw in to it. When they were trying to push the Communications Data Bill, initially, the first version was incredibly broadbrush and afforded powers to do any data collection. They then admitted, during the process of our [parliamentary committee] enquiry, that actually there were only three things they particularly wanted. One of which was IP addressing matching, which there was good evidence for and we agreed to do One was about requiring ISPs to keep track of web logs, effectively. So a list of every website you go to, and things like that. And the third thing was to have a power to require ISPs to keep track of third party information  so what you do on Facebook, what you do on any other site, saysHuppert.Those were the three things they said they wanted. The IP address matching basically was the only thing they had any evidence for. And it doesnt involve any significant privacy intrusions but has huge advantages. Whereas I think the concept of keeping track of every website everybody ever goes to, or of requiring ISPs to keep track of what you do on Facebook all the time are deeply intrusive. And actually they couldnt come up with any significant evidence of why it was useful.There should be a clear piece of legislation that sets out what is ok, what is not ok, what the processes are for changing it. And it needs to be written with an acceptance of the need for accountability. And the need to have as much transparency as is consistent with the genuine requirements for operational work. But thats not the approach thats been taken before. Its not the approach that the Home Secretary has previously urged. Maybe she will change her mind this time but Im sceptical, he adds.I worry that the Home Secretary will largely try to simply procure more powers for the state without justifying it or consider the count of balancing issues that there are. And certainly, like weve seen with the Prime Ministers comments about encryption, those are huge threats to the UK technology sectors. And is definitely not the right way to proceed.Beyond the overreach andprivacy intrusion of having the state require systematiclogging of citizens web browsing habits and social media activity, another reason to oppose more expansive state data retention is that it makes the intelligence agencies job harder  given it increases the noise to signal ration, as Huppert notes.Theres no doubt that if you demand more things you have more data, and if you believe that the problem the intelligence services face at the moment is a shortage of data then it would address the problem. I think the problem is they dont know what to do with all the data that they have. If you look at the killing of [U.K. soldier] Lee Rigby for example the problem isnt that they have no idea. The problem is they have so much data they couldnt prioritize it properly, heargues.So unlike IP address matching where there really was a strong case, there isnt a clear case here. Beyond we can think of some situations where it might be useful. And I think one of the things that people should look very very carefully at thisis what is the evidence for any of the claims that are made. We certainly found the ones given initially were, I think the word we used was misleading.He alsonotes that theJoint Committeereporton the draft Communications Data bill was hugely critical about the lack of dataministers were able to provide to support assertions that expanding data capture powers for counter-terrorism purposes would save lives. So thats another thorny problemwith legislation in this area  the government can and does shroud its arguments in claims of national security secrecy. Saying, in essence, we need more data  but we cant tell you why.And where the U.K. Parliaments Intelligence and Security Committee should be playing a robustrole in holding the government to account in such a sensitive area, Huppert says there has been further failure. So hes also not putting much store in claims that the Investigatory Powers Bill will providefor appropriate oversight and safeguard arrangements.We do need better oversight. The intelligence services play an incredibly important role and we want them to be able to do their jobs in a clear and accountable way. But the ISC has not played that role, he adds. The Investigatory Powers Tribunal ruled against the government butthe executive response was to do nothing and soon after deny that the ruling had happened. So I dont have much confidence in that.One portionof U.K. legislation he does supportoverhauling is RIPA. Aka the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, which regulates the powers public bodies haveto carry out surveillance and communications interception. Briefing notes forthe Investigatory Powers Bill stateit will aim to modernise our law in these areas and ensure it is fit for purpose.RIPA has been criticized for years for eroding press freedoms and sanctioning disproportionate surveillance  by, for instance, enablingpolice and local councils tospy on journalists. Or, in another instance, a local authorities to check if a family was livingin a school catchment area. So theres a clear need for ripping up RIPA and starting again.But again Hupperthasconcerns about the governments approach here.RIPA does need to be re-written. Theres no doubt about that, he says. It is an atrociously written piece of legislationIthink that everybody agrees RIPA is not fit for purpose. And that would include strong critics like myself but also if you look at some of the things that [Commissioner for the Global Commission on Internet Governance] David Omand has said Hes argued for full public and parliamentary understanding of new powers So I do think we need to have a re-write of RIPA but the correct way to do that is through the joint committee process, thinking about it slowly and carefully  not something rammed through by a new government eager to get on with it.And the intention, which the Tories had agreed to or stated publicly, was that [to get this balance] there would be a joint committee set up between both houses to consider how to re-do RIPA. And it does seem to me that they are jumping the gun somewhat on it.Huppert is not alone in his concerns either. This week a UN reportdubbed encryption an essential tool for protecting the right of freedom of opinion and expression in the digital age. WhileSir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, called for checks and balances on government surveillance. Speaking at an Internet festival taking place in London this week he asked of politicians: Can you show us that you can build a system which is accountable to us, where when the security services take the ability to look at private data, they do it in a way where it goes through a court, they do in way so my personal data is not going to be snooped on and when people do have their data snooped on its only used in a very serious process of tracking down organised crime and terrorism?The Investigatory Powers Bill is one of a seriesof initial bills announced in the Queens speech, which sets out the government legislative agenda for the new Parliament  so shoring up and expanding state surveillance anddata capture powers is evidently front of mind and aclear priority for the new U.K.government. How that preoccupation with supporting and enablinggreater state powers of intrusion on the one hand vs an apparent desire to modernize problematic older laws pertaining tointerception powers plays out remains to be seen. But the governments anti-encryption rhetoric suggestsanotherseriousclash of politics vstechnology is incoming  the outcome of which will ripple out toaffect bothU.K. web users and their online behavior, and global companiesdoing business in the U.K.The U.K. is often referred to as the most surveilled country in the world  typically a reference to the pervasive use of CCTV. At the last countthere were estimated to bebetween 4 million and 5.9 million of thesesurveillance cameras in the U.K. (which has a population of around 64 million), although the vast majority are privately owned and operated  rather than being directly controlled by the state. (The number of publiclyoperated cameras in England and Wales isaround 100,000.)This month the U.K.s surveillance camera commissioner warned that budget cuts are forcing councils to switch off CCTV cameras.But the idea that state surveillance capabilities will diminish because ofshrinking governmentresources seems fantastical. Rather the role of providing state surveillance apparatus continues to beoutsourcedto private operators. So U.K. police and intelligence agencies obtain whateverCCTV footage theyre after from the private operator funding a camera in their shop or carpark or driveway  or, hey, even thatin-home Dropcam or the lens on that life-loggingwearable that never stops recording whats going on around you. Imagine the power of state surveillance tapping intoan expansiveInternet of Things infrastructure that ceaselesslygathersreal-time data onevery point of human intersection  public and private.When it comes to surveillance of digital comms data, thissame outsourcing modus operandi used with CCTV is being applied by governments to Internet companies  with the U.K. government now preparingto push one of the most hawkish data retention agendas in the Western world, and that despite the censure that has been directed at systematicdigital dragnets in the wake of the Snowden revelations. How hugely powerful commercial digital platformsrespond to being co-opted as the coal faceof state surveillance, where their user data is thensubject to systematic mining by the state as a byproduct of citizens digital participation, continues to beone of the most pressing issues of our technology-fueled times.