Of all the complicationsthatwill worry the outer rimof Apple Watch buyers minds, the question of whether they need to purchase a case to protectively encase their expensive wrist-wear is perhaps the most frivolous.On the surface it sounds ludicrous. Who keeps awatch inside a case when its attached totheir person? And yet the Apple Watch is really a very small wrist computer, with a price-tag that ranges right up to the luxury end of the market. To $10,000, or even $17,000.Its also intended as a multipurpose device, with fitness tracking functionality rubbing up against notifications and comms, with some ostentatious bling thrown in (at least if youre shelling out for 18-karat gold). So its supposed to trackyou when yousweat through ahalf marathonand thenremainon your wrist during that fancy dinner. Same device, different aspects.Add to that, given thatkeeping yoursmartphonein a protective case is well-established behavior, the notion of similarly encasing a smartwatch is only really a smallstep away.And so enter device case-maker, Lunatik, with a plan to build and sell ruggedized cases for the Apple Watch.Its been working on this accessory since Apple officially unveiled its smartwatch last fall, using a mechanism previously patented for encasing the iPod Nano when worn on the wrist. The metal case is being designed to protectwithout limiting access to the various controls and sensors on the watch.The forthcoming Epik Apple Watch Kit isonly in prototype format this point (with the latest samples pictured pictured below)  the team is aiming fora shipping timeframe of three months after the Apple Watch itself comes to market at the end of April, so circa summer.Lunatik founderScott Wilson says the intention is to test the market for this Apple Watch accessory, via a crowdfunding campaign. So its ready to admit it might have misjudged the madness of the moment.And quite possibly it has.But if someone is crazy enough to spend $15,000 on a smartwatch, whats another $99 to $149 on a ruggedized case-plus-strap combo whichpromises to keep a fewscratches off your investment?Wearable technology is most relevant in situations where a phone interaction is not accessible or ideal. Sport, fitness and extreme conditions are a few of these occasions, arguesWilson. They also require more physically enhanced and purpose-built design to endure these extreme conditions.The aluminum Epik face casewill apparently include hydrophobic vents for an added layer of dust and water ingress protection. It will also come with a custom plastic band strap, so you can leave your fancy leather/linked Apple Watch band at home when you hit the trail.Wilsonalso talks up the personalization angle as a selling point for third party Apple Watch cases  given that wearable tech cant help but elbow into thefashion space. So this isalso about offering choice to appeal to personal taste, identity and style.Which is another way of saying that anaked Cupertino-made Apple Watch might not look brawny enough for some folk. Andthose guysmight actually preferto put a rugged rim on it.