A few weeks ago I wrote about Pypestream, a startup promising to be an alternative to the often frustrating customer service experience. At the time, founder and CEO Richard Smullen was being a little coy about what the company was actually doing, but now hes ready to share more details.Basically, Pypestream is a messaging app where businesses create accounts to connect with consumers. Each account includes different Pypes, which represent different types of communication  for example, a retailer might create one Pype for customer support, one for returns, one for deals, one for news and so on.If you want something from the business, you open the relevant Pype and start messaging them, pretty much the same way youd text message with the a friend. And by leaving Pypes open, youre opting in to receive certain kinds of communication from the company, such as deal alerts.For consumers, Smullen said this offers a support channel that doesnt involve spending minutes or hours on hold. He also said it should feel more natural than the automated systems that sometimes answer our calls.To be clear, a business Pypestreammessages will be generated by a mix of automation and human support. But even when youre not really texting with a human being, Smullen said the interactions will feel more natural than trying to converse with a computerized voice.Businesses, meanwhile, get to save on the high cost of call centers, and they also get an open channel to continue communicating with customers  Smullen argued that a consumer is much more likely to opt-in to Pypestream messaging than they are to download an app for each and every company.Some brandsare also creating a presence onthe big consumer messaging apps, but Smullen suggested that those appsdont have the kinds of business-focused features that Pypestream does it will support payments, and there will be a file cabinet that stores all the documents shared in your communication.Were not a person-to-person platform, were not a group collaborationsystem, he said. Wereone-to-many from an entity or brand or a club or a sports team or a celebrity, and thenone-to-one back. In other words, a business can push a message broadly to any interested consumers, and then consumers can respond in an individual fashion, without any of their information getting shared.In fact, as hetalked about different uses, about how you mightgo about your life and get all your business needs met through the app, it reminded me of the promise behind mobile assistant apps like Magic and GoButler.The difference is,with an assistant app,you type in a general request and messageback-and-forth abouthow to fulfill it. With Pypestream, you pick a specific business and a specific task, and then you start messaging (which, again, means the business has a direct relationship with the customer).Pypestream isnt yet broadly available to consumers, but Smullen said hes in the process of bringing business on-board. The initial customers include Washington Gas and Billboard.