Qualtrics spent most of its life bootstrapped and trying to be profitable. Then it raised $220 million  and Qualtrics CEO Ryan Smith was worried hed have to move to Silicon Valley.But the company has become a success story coming out of Utah, and the companys focus on profitability and being a sustainablebusiness from day one has taught Qualtrics employees to remain scrappy even with the huge funding it has pulled into the bank.You reallyhave to kind of be blunt, eatwhat you kill, Smith said onstage at TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2015. It forces constraint, and when people are constrained, they get extremely creative and scrappy. Its everything  itshustle, you gotta be innovative. Were going to this tradeshow, figure out, can you can get this booth for free because we cant afford it. Its built into the DNAthat we area actually running a solid business model.Qualtrics is a platform that makes it easier to monitor and improve the vital signs of a company, he said. It was founded in 2002, and it wasnt until May 2012 when it raised its first massive round of funding  a $70 million series A from Sequoia Capital and Accel Partners.The key word was DNA, Sequoias Bryan Schreier said. They started with a small number of sales. The last few years have beentaking that profitable bootstrapped DNA,and learning the behaviors of investing aggressively in the business. Its almost the oppositeof what you see coming out of startups coming out of Silicon Valley.Theres certainly been change internally, Smith said, and Qualtrics doesnt look like what it did when it was founded. The funding round was another checkpoint, Smith said when it led to another change in the direction of the company. We had to take what we loved about it, but we also had to rip down what we did to this point.I think there was a lot of pushback [internally], Smith said. One reason we bootstrapped so long was because when I started withmy father, we said, well split this 50/50. Itreally had to line up not only economically, but also the right folks on our end. Both [Schreier]and [Accel Partners Ryan Sweeney],they saw a vision for whatwe were working on. Jared was reallycomfortable with [Schreier].But for Schreier, it was attractive because it was quite different to other Silicon Valley SaaS companies thatwere focused entirely on growth without at least generating some profitability.Its always the team, but the data point it was simply the financial attributes, Schreier said.The revenue, the growth rate with profitability. To this day this is the only companyat tremendous scale in SaaSindustrythat is growing at the high rate and still generating tons of cash.It does not happen in B2B.