Youve seen The Wolf of Wall Street, youre handy with some code  you just knowyou can beat the market, but you dont have the money to invest. What could possibly go wrong.Quantiacs hasthe platform for you to experiment and try out strategies  and the money to back your bets, too.If any of this makes sense, you could have a lucrative career ahead of you.At the moment, Quantiacs is dogfooding its ownsystems; the founders have$3.75 million of theirown money invested in the platform, running across six different algorithms. Quantiacs has enough faith in its system that its publishing the live performance of the algorithms on itswebsite, and the team says it expects to open the platform to external investors starting in May this year.The easiest way to explain what Quantiacs doesis to think of it as crowdsourcing for trading algorithms. The companyempowers quants  people who createquantitative algorithms  to participate in theindustry by connecting theiralgorithms to capital from institutional investors.In effect, Quantiacs supplies a platform to run the algorithms and the data required to testwhether the algorithms are actually any good. From there, the company is a matchmaker between hedge funds and quants. Investors can choose a set of algorithms that match their goals and risk profile, and the code boffins benefitby seeing their code in use and by sharing in the profits.The exotically named getSwoleLoker5 algorithm in action.Quantiacs raised a $1 million seedinvestment fromBaha Holdings, a venture fund dedicated to fintech startups.Alex Meiburg is a sophomore in college, studying physics  and also one of Quantiacs top quants. Im not going to claim I know much about the stock market or quantitative trading in general, he laughs. He was studying the quantum mechanics of spin crystals whenhis summer mentor introduced him to quantitative trading.I was able to approach the problem of quants as just another dynamical system and try to come up with the best explanation of its dynamics as I could. There are some other platforms out there for similar things, but they seem to be more for letting me easily invest in my own code, says Meiburg. As a college student, however, he admits he doesnt have the capital to invest, and points out that Quantiacs offers a rare opportunity to see his algorithms in action.Quantiacs claims that after 18 months in a closed beta, they have more than 800 trading algorithms on the platform, with manyof those algorithms having beendeveloped by students using neural networks and other machine learning approaches.Quantitative Hedge funds usually charge 2/20, which means 2% of the managed capital per year as management fee, and 20% of the profits as performance fee, Martin Froehler, Quantiacs CEO explains. Quantiacs doesnt charge any management fees, only the usual 20% cut of the profits. We then split our income 50/50 with the quant who wrote the strategy.