The halcyon days of people clicking on Google search links and instantly converting into customers are over. But a startupcalled Qubit,founded by four ex-Googlers, has built a big-data analytics platform that it believes could make selling online today and in the future nearly as easy and successful; and its announcing a substantial $40 million in funding to fill out that ambition.The goals are as lofty as you might expect from early Google employees-turned-entrepreneurs. Myobjective is that 1.5years from now, I want the Internet marketing community to say, how did we do what we do without a platform like Qubit? said CEO and co-founderGraham Cooke, in an interview. Im taking the best of my five years of Googleand applying it here.ThisSeries C round wasled byGoldman Sachs; but notably it also includes investment from two strategic CRM giants new backer Sapphire Ventures (the investment arm of SAP) and existing backer Salesforce Ventures. Previous backer Accel also participated.London-based Qubit plans to use the new funding in three areas, Cooke said: to expand into more verticals beyond e-commerce; to add more features and functionality to its flagship Visitor Cloud platform; and to hire more talent, in particular engineers and specifically to build out its presence in Silicon Valley.Qubit  whose name comes from quantum bit, the quantum equivalent of a binary bit has already made some significant headway outside of its original singular focus of e-commerce, Cooke added. Today, half of its business already comes from categories outside of retail like travel, finance and e-gaming.The company  which was founded in 2010 and whoseother co-founders includeIan McCaig, Emre BaranandDaniel Shellard has in total some 300 customers,including large brands like Topshop, Emiratesand Walmart-owned ASDA. It claims toprocess some 2.5 billion online customer interactions daily. Qubithas grown over 100% year on year,and it is on track to see a $100 million annual run rate pretty soon as well asbe cash-flowbreak-even in the next18 months.Qubitis not disclosing its valuation but Cooke describes it as good considering the current climate. And, he added,its a numberthat will not leave employees with stockoptions straight out of luck should the startupget acquired or seeanother liquidity event (a fate weve seen employees at otherstartups befall, unfortunately).Weve raised $40 million in a difficult market, to put it mildly, Cookesaid with a little laugh. Weve comeaway with a valuation that is good for the business and great for employees. In many startups, employees are under water, and they are not meeting the companys valuation with their stock. We wanted to avoid that. The company has now raised $76 million to date, after most recentlyraising $26 million in September 2014.The problem that Qubit is tackling is a well-known one: a lot of buying online is built on an outdated premise that companies can sell to customers without knowing too much about them, justby offering their wares in a place that they may be most visible. Such as in a Google search. This is something that Cooke describes asthe expectation economy.When I started at Google at 2005 the amountof conversionsthat were one-click purchases washuge, he said. Click on a Google ad, go to the website, make the purchase and youre done. But now, without a doubt, its harder. People are on a lot of different devices, sometimes five or six, and they are on a longer journey of discoverywhere they may have heard about you and just want to look a little closer.They may not buy anything at all, he said, soanalytics and personalisation and optimization to allow marketers understand what is happening and what the next move should be are of top importance. Its about the customer, not the product, Cooke said.This is where the Visitor Cloud comes into play. The service exists in the form of a real-time dashboard that provides customer segmentation and across different platforms, different routes for coming to a companys site or products as they are sold online, and other variations.Clients are givengraphic representations (by way of a Tableau integration) to understand the trends better  no need for marketers to brush up on data science to use the platform, and given the tools to execute moves based on those insights  whether its provide a special discount to an identifiedVIP or lure the casual visitor in with another sweetener.Another aspect of Qubits business is that it uses machine learning and big-data analytics to crunch the numbers around each businesses traffic to figure out patterns for customer types. It uses this to help suggest how to market to these users. This is in contrast to one of the more popular routes for trying newcampaigns today: A-B testing.We are challenging the status quo of personalisation or A-Btesting without better knowledge of your customers, Cooke says. 90% of A-Btests are ineffective and dont drive any uplift at all because you are testing things that dont matter. Cooke also says that he sees Adobe Marketing Cloud as a big competitor.There is another noteworthy aspect to what Qubit is doing, and that is on the subject of user privacy. A lot of marketing and ad tech today might give users pause because of how it potentially steps around and over databoundaries, which not only unnerves many consumers but makes the user experience often quite spammy and annoying. (No, I really dont want to buy that teapot, Amazon. Please, stop showing it to me already.)Qubit says that its own approach to this is to narrow its own big-data focus, looking only at a companys own traffic, and not doing any kind of comparisons with traffic from other companies, anonymised or otherwise.Wesee ourselves as a CRM technology, so we are providing customer data that is first party and owned entirely by the enterprise in question, Cooke said. In other words, no cross referencing between Topshopand ASDAas one example.We dont do that and the reason why is that for Topshop,its customer information is an asset. We allow them to mine it and store it effectively. This is an important premisefor our tech and for privacy. Ultimately the relationship isbetween the customer andTopshop.As part of this round, David Reis, MD and head of technology at Goldman Sachs Merchant Banking Division in Europe, is joining the board of Qubit alongsideBruce Golden from Accel and Balderton Capital General Partner Bernard Liautaud.We share [Qubits]belief that the next era of commerce requires a flexible platform capable of delivering differentiated customer experience, said Reis. Qubit saw early how powerful a lever customer experience is going to be for businesses and built an infrastructure that starts with the data and allows its clients to engage with their customers based on a richer and deeper understanding of their behaviors and needs.