Reddit, the hugely popular onlinecommunity know as the front page of the internet, has dropped the hammer on five groups on its site judgedto be in violation ofits policy againstharassing users.They includer/fatpeoplehate, a subreddit that  as the name suggests  was a place for comments about fat people, and is the largest of the five withover 5,000 subscribersover 150,000 subscribers (h/t @rabite). The others includer/hamplanethatred (3,071 subscribers), r/transf*gs (149), r/neof*g (1239) and r/shitni**erssay (219).Our goal is to enable as many people as possible to have authentic conversations and share ideas and content on an open platform. We want as little involvement as possible in managing these interactions but will be involved when needed to protect privacy and free expression, and to prevent harassment, Reddit said in an announcement.It is not easy to balance these values, especially as the Internet evolves. We are learning and hopefully improving as we move forward, the blog post further explained.Feign astonishmentfor a moment. A vocal part of the Reddit community is  unsurprisingly for anyone who knows anything about the site  furiousabout the ban on these groups.Their response? To flood the site with content that harasses Reddit CEO Ellen Pao.Many are also threatening to leave the community in response to the censorship.Reddit is representative of many different kinds of views and interests, right from harmless fun like cats, parenting, cooking and travel, to more sensitivetopics such as race, sexuality and more.The sites worsttrolls are notoriousfor making parts of Reddit an utter cesspool of vitriol. Yet, though Reddit does its best to allow free speech, there isclearly a line that needs to be drawn. The problem  in my eyes, at least  appears to be a selective enforcement of this line: some vulgar subreddits are shuttered while others live on. That makes bansseem arbitrary in nature, and thus provokes this kind of reaction.If Redditsmost extreme members did leave, that might not be such a bad thing after all, but it would represent a very different site. But thenwe have seen outrage over censorship with the site in the past, so it remains to be seen how this episode will play out over the long term.While we do not always agree with the content and views expressed on the site, we do protect the right of people to express their views and encourage actual conversations according to the rules of reddit, Reddit said.