Another keyboard contender has launched on iOS hoping to convinceteens to shell out a few bucks for an app that gives them quick fire access to the characters thatmatter most in their texting life: emoji.The backstory here is that Apple finally opened up developer access to the keyboard in iOS 8 last fall. Since thenweve seen a raft of alternative iOS keyboard appspopping up to try to garner a following.The latest of these, theQwerky gesture-based keyboardmade by a U.K.-based dev team, puts emojis a mereswipe away from a standard Qwertykeyboard so users can speedily switch between letters and symbols as they type.The numbers and punctuation screen is also positioneda Tinderish gestureaway, instead of requiring the typist toprecision-tap a corner key to toggle between keyboards every time they want to add in an apostrophe or punctuate their missive with a smiling poop  as is the case onthe native iOS keyboard.Qwerkys gestures offer onlyincremental convenience, sure, but if your typical texting output looks something like this  then youre going to find the ability to shortcutbetween letters and emojispretty sweet.We found Swiftkey/Swype/etc are slow to reach the keys you really want (that winky face or aubergine!). With our keyboard, swiping left and right quickly navigates from text to emojis, says co-founder Ed Moyse, explaining what problem the Qwerky team setout to fix.As well as letting users summonemoji with a swipe, Qwerky has some emoticon-shapedeaster eggs up its sleeve. Such as if you type saturdaynight the keyboard will sub out your lettersfor an emoji version of John Travolta (pictured at the top of this post). Or write ciaofornow. Or SANTA (an Xmas launch was originally planned for Qwerky).More such bonus emoji art subs are apparently incoming.Now Qwerky is by no means the only alt iOS keyboard seeking to cash in on teens emoticon (andGIF) <3.Other emoji keyboards launching on iOS in recent times include the place-to-go-suggestingGoji, the better laid outEmoji++,and thesymbol suggestingKeymoji, to name three. But Qwerky is hoping its focus on speed and simplicitywill help the app stand out in a crowded space.Were aiming to stand out/convince people to stay by offering a keyboard that lets you type like a human, says Moyse. People use a combination of text, emojis, pictures, and GIFs to express themselves, but other keyboards dont handle this satisfactorily.Qwerky is not a free app  but thats fairly standard for smaller keyboard app makers. Its priced at $0.99 for launch week, and $1.99 thereafter. So yes, this is absolutely about cashing in on teens wanting to send pictures of cash to each other. But thats a sign of our emoji-loving times.Oneword of warning: there is no word prediction with Qwerky. So depending on how much you lean on Apples (or others) next word suggestionalgorithms to speedyour typing you might actually find it slower to bash out words on Qwerky.But, then again, ifyou reckonemoting is >spelling anyway thats probably not going to bother you too much.Calling all Actual Teens.