Japans Rakuten is joining e-commerce giants Amazon and Alibaba with a foray into drones. The Tokyo-based company, Japans largest online commerce firm, this week revealed its investment in a drone maker and plans tobegin field trials in an unlucky setting the golf course.Rakuten confirmed its participation in a new round of financing for Autonomous Control Systems Laboratory (ACSL), a Japan-based firm that develops robotics and drones for industrial purposes. ACSL span out ofChiba University in 2013, and it offers itsMini Surveyor drones and relatedservices toautomate tasks like surveying, inspections, monitoring and more. (DJI, perhaps the most visible consumer company, is one of many that has moved into the lucrative industrial services space  Sony is another.)Rakutenhas taken a 20 percent stake in ACSL but the price that it paid isnt clear the companydeclined to tell us when we asked. Itdid say, however, that the two sides willwork together while capitalizing on their respective strengths in the utilization of industrial drones, in order to deliver innovation to society with technologies and services originating in Japan.But that firsttest willhappenat a place that is far froman industrial setting. NHK reports that, from May, Rakuten and ACSL willpilot a service that brings refreshment, balls and moreto golfers at a course in Chiba. The concept is simple: golfers can order drinks, snacks or other items via a smartphone app, with the items then sent over from the clubhouse via a drone.Thats quite a different approachto Amazon and Alibaba, which have both used drones to automate deliveries to customers. Alibaba ran a three-day pilot last year, while Amazon has experimented with Prime Air since late 2013. The U.S. firm showed off an updated version of its drone last year, which looks to now be a hybrid much larger than itsfirst iteration.Rakutens interest in drone tech comes after the firm announced a new strategy focused on growth areas of its business. As part of that program, Rakuten shuttered its e-commerce marketplaces in Southeast Asia and wrote down more than $300 million in assets held worldwide.