Facebook at Work, Facebooks first move to turnits social network into an enterprise tool, has remained in closedbeta since its launch in January this year. But as the product continues to inch its wayto general availability, it will be doing so without one of its key architects.Lars Rasmussen  Facebooks engineering director, who helpedcreate and run Facebook search engine Graph Searchand later Facebook atWork  will beleaving the company to co-founda music startup with his partner,Elomida Visviki.Both Rasmussen and Facebook have confirmed the move to TechCrunch. He will officially depart the companyin June.Meanwhile, the running of FB@Work will now split into two.Julien Codorniou, Facebooks global partnerships headbased in London, will lead on partnership support; andChaitanya Mishra, who has been working on the product since the very start, will manage FB@Works engineering team, also based in London andreportingback to Menlo Park.Part of the reason that the leadership is splittingis because the team working onFB@Work is expanding. The product has now had tens of thousands of inbound requests from business wanting to try it out, soFacebook needs to add more people to the product to support that.Leaving Facebook was an incredibly difficult decision, Rasmussen said in an emailed statement. Working there has never been more exciting for me, in particular given the incredible momentum behind Facebook at Work, and the ridiculously talented peopleI work with on that project and at Facebook in general. But over the past year my fianc, Elomida, has built what I think is a new and exciting way to compose and experience music. And trying to turn that into a successful startup together will be way too much fun to postpone any longer.This will not be Rasmussens first taste of being an entrepreneur. Before Rasmussen joined Facebook in 2010, he workedat Google, where he had been the co-creator of Google Maps and Google Wave (another enterprise collaboration product, but one that didnt catch on). Rasmussencame to Google by way of acquisition: he had been the co-founder of a company in Australia called Where2 Technologies, which was acquired by Google in 2004 and became the basis for Google Maps.Visviki, meanwhile, has racked up experience in the advertising and non-profit sectors. Her LinkedIn profile lists her as working on a stealthy startup since February 2014 called Cute Little Apps.Just as Rasmussenwill be joined in hisnew venture by his fianc,he co-founded Where2 with his brother Jens and two others. (It doesnt look like Jens will be involved this time around.)The parting seems to be amicable enough between engineer and social network. We are grateful for Lars many contributions over the years, a Facebook spokesperson said in a statement. Were a company of entrepreneurs, and now that Facebook at Work is off the ground and growing quickly we understand Lars desire to return to his startup roots. We wish him the very best.He will continue to base himself in London for the new venture.Ramussens move into music, and decision to stay in London to buildit, is an interesting one.The digital music industry currently feels like it is approaching a tipping point. As more consumers switch to streaming services over buying physical discs or downloading tracks, tech giants are getting their ducks in line.Apple hasyet to unveilthe full force ofhow it intends toleverage its Beats acquisition; Google meanwhile is pushing hard to ramp up its own position in streamedmusic.Then, competitorslike Spotify (which is closing in on a major round of funding) and Deezerare pushing into advertising and other services to build out viable business models. Others like Tidal are looking to carve out their own position in the field by focusing on high-definitionaudio and top artists.At the same time, there is a growing interest in user-generated, digital-first audio content that sits outside the traditional music publishing model.Just as streaming services like YouTube, Netflix and others have positioned themselves as publishers and creative platforms, not just distributors, of videocontent, so too have audio platforms like Soundcloud shown that it can be a key destination for people seeking out new sounds and artists.Without knowing too many details of what they are building, ifRasmussen andVisviki are focusing on creating a new way of composing music online, this could fill inone moremissing piece of the digital music puzzle.Geographically, London is an important center for the music industry, as a business bridge not only between the U.S. and European markets, but also between many producers and artists on both sides of the pond.Interestingly, it looks like Rasmussen and Visviki have been getting the ball rollingfor their new venture, meeting with famed producers and songwriters Mary Brown and Tony Dofat earlier this month.