The Raspberry Pi Foundation has upped the ante when it comes to low cost single board computers, announcing a new addition to itsfamily of microprocessors today, called Pi Zero. And it costs just $5. (4 in the U.K.)Or it shouldcost $5, albeit you may have to shop around the various Pi resellers to get it for that baseline price. And international buyers in certain regions may find theyre still paying a premium. But the Foundations intention is for the Pi Zero to retail for just five bucks.We really hope this is going to get thoselast few people in the door and involved in computer programming, says Pi co-founder Eben Upton in a video (embedded below) announcing the Pi Zero.So who is the Pi Zero for? Makersbuilding connected devices androbotics projects are likely to be first in line in the queue here. Albeit, at $5 its pretty much an impulse purchase (Indeed, the Pi Zero is being given away free on the cover of the Foundations MagPi magazine.)We believe it will be particularly useful for people looking to do robotics or IoT projects  very small and low power, but able to drive a display and keyboard when you want to do debug, Uptontells TechCrunch.The next cheapest Pi in the family is the Model A+ which costs $20. While this falla Raspberry Pi rival/clone, calledOrange Pi, also popped up, retailing for $15 so theres no doubt that low cost computers are getting increasinglyaffordable.Whether $5 is the floor for a single board computer remains to be seen  Upton suggests this is as low as things can go for the foreseeable future at least. And theres no doubt$5 is an incredible price for a fully fledged computer whichwill run applicationslike Minecraft Pi andthe Scratch visual programming language.So what does a $5 Pi getyou, hardware wise? A 1Ghz core chip  in fact the same chipthat was used in the original Raspberry Pi but upclocked to run a bitfaster  and 512MB of RAM, plus on the ports front: a micro-SD card slot, a mini-HDMI and two micro-USB ports.The full specs run-down is as follows:What dont you get? Theres no Ethernet or on-board Wi-Fibut clearly costs needed to be kept down somehow. And the micro-USB port can be used for plugging in a Wi-Fi dongle to get it connected.Using smaller sockets,keeping the components on one side of the boardand having a very small form factor(the board is just65mm x 30mm x 5mm) are other ways the board designershave shaved costs. That and economies of scale  having manufacturedmillions of Pi over the pastseveral years. Plus of course the Pi Foundation isa not-for-profit.A combination of economies of scale, continued reduction in component costs, and a fanatical attention to detail in the design (this is the first board designed by Mike Stimson, who joined us at the start of the year, and its a great start), is how Upton explains the low price-tag on the Pi Zero.Every component on the board has been made to justify its existence,he adds.The Foundation recently merged with after school kids coding organization Code Club with a mission to get a Code Club set up in every community in the world. That goal sounded insanely ambitious when Ispoke to them earlier this month. But now, with a $5 computer to support their educational mission, it seemsrather moreattainable.Asked whether he sees the Pi Zero gaining traction in emerging markets, Upton notes ithas a composite TV output, adding: So theres potential for someone in the developing world whos just bought an old TV to upgrade it into a computer using a Zero.