Grab your screwdrivers, makers! Theres a new, more powerful Raspberry Pi in town The just announced Pi 2, which goes on sale today, addsa quad-core chip and double the memory to support more intensive processing tasks.The Pi Foundation also reckons thissequel takes the Pi microprocessor firmly into the PC space, as they put it  in terms of power punch packed.With the Pi 1, there were people using it as a PC but you had to make allowances for the fact it was a $35 PC, says Pi creator, Eben Upton, in an interview with TechCrunch. The big difference with the Pi 2 is its a PC. Its not a PC which is pretty good considering it cost you $35. Its a PC thats pretty good.We think theres a real opportunity hereweve got a web browser, you can install LibreOffice on it, and then youve got a machine which is quite plausible as an entry-level PC, he adds.To that end, Upton notes the Foundation will be adding software such as LibreOffice to the reference Raspbian install in the coming months. The hardware will also be able to handle running Microsofts Windows 10 OS.Who might want $35 entry level PCs? Schools might, for one, says Upton.This plays into some of the educational stuff  its just that much more useful as a general purpose computer, he adds.Last year Googles philanthropic arm, Google Giving, stumped up$1 millionto fund freePi for 15,000 U.K. schoolkids, while various startups have taken the low cost microprocessor as their starting point to spark computing education businessesto help people learn coding or electronics tinkering, such as Kano with its DIY computer, or more recently Pimoronis Flotilla electronics kits. So theres already plenty going on with Pi and pupils.Zooming out from there, to take in the wider,embedded, hobbyist, building a robot community of Pi users whereUpton notes Pi has been very strong  well, those guys are clearly not going to have anytrouble finding usesfor the additional power that Pi 2 brings.There are obviously places where the extra processing comes in useful, says Upton. Image processing is the obvious one. If youre trying to build a robot that has one of the Pi cameras on it to react to the environment, youre just that much better able to write those image processing algorithms on a big, fast quad-core ARM, rather than a medium performance, single core ARM.The Pi 2  or the Raspberry Pi 2 Model B, to give it its full name  retains the form factor asits predecessor Pi Model B+ board to ensure backwards compatibility with adds-ons, accessories, online tutorials and the like.An enormous amount of effort went into this, says Upton. People have been saying to us for a couple of years why arent you making a faster Pi? But the Foundation wanted a faster Pi that retained the same form factor  hence why theyve taken two yearstime to get to Pi 2.If wed been prepared to give up compatibility we could have had a faster Pi out quite a while ago but it wouldnt have been a Raspberry Pi. It would have been another computer with a Raspberry Pi logo on it, he adds.We just didnt want to do that kind of brand extension engineering. We wanted to do actual engineering.The $35 price-tag also remains in place, thanks in part  says Upton  to the success of the original Pi enabling economies of scale to kick in vialarger component orders. The P2, like the P1, will also be manufacturedlargelyin the U.K., at Sonys facility in Wales. (A small amount ofPi is also produced in China.)The Pi 2s core is a 900MHz Quad ARM Cortex-A7 processor, which Upton says should deliver a 6x performance bump on the current top of the linePi (the aforementioned Model B+, which only arrivedlast summer itself an upgrade on the original Model B, bringing more ports and a neater form factor).What weve been able to do with Pi 2 is go from a single ARM 11 Core, which is a fairly antique processor now, to a quad core ARM Cortex A7. Which is pretty much a modern top of the line processor, and gives us something like 6x the processing capability of Raspberry Pi 1, he notes.On board memory on the Pi 2 has also doubled from 512MB to 1GB.Interfacing capabilities and the form factor are the same as the B+, as noted above.There are always things that people want, addsUpton. A lot of the obvious things that people were asking for for Pi we think we solved back in July last year [with the Model B+]  more IO, more USB, a better form factor, lower power consumption. But there was a sort of residue of things we werent able to resolve and that was largely to do with the silicon.So Pi 2 resolves, pretty much, all of the remaining issues that people had with Pi  and those are mostly around memory and processing capability.Upton predicts at least tens of thousands, possibly as many as 100 thousand sales of Pi 2 on the first day. I think we can deal with a spike. There might be a little bit of a queue, he adds.Sales of the original Pi are running a little over200,000 units per month now, according to Upton. That boardwont be immediately discontinued  but rather will continued to besold for as long as there is demand for it. So industrial users arentgoing to be forced toupgrade to Pi 2.All of these products stay in the market until theres no more demand for them, he adds.Total Pi sales at this point in the products lifecycle is around 4.5 million, according toUpton. The first Pi  the original Model B  was launched three years ago, in February 2012.Where is Pi doing best now? North America is really getting very strong now, he tells TechCrunch. Historically its been our biggest market but its underperformed on a per capita basisThats really picking up. Chinas really picking up  coming from a small base, Chinas growing really fast. People really seem to have taken to it.Asked about the lower priced Model A+, which the Pi Foundation only refreshed last November, Upton said the Foundation like that $20 price-point, so does envisage it mightto do a sequel in time  but not anytime soon.The A+ has been really successful. Its been much more successful that the original Model A Pi so that $20 price-point, and the small form factor and the low power consumption actually are a really sweet combination, and I think it really grabbed peoples attention. So were going to leave the A+ anchoring the bottom end. Thats going to be there for at least a year as our bottom end device, and then maybe sometime in 2016 well think about whether we can find a way to do something thats got the new quad-core processor and maybe a little more RAM, says Upton.In practice its not something weve got planned, it just something weve left room for, he adds.Meanwhile the Pi touchpanel, which Upton showed off at Disrupt London in October, is still in the works. The components are sitting in a warehouse but the Foundation has prioritized gettingPi 2 out the door first so the touchpanel hasinevitably beenon the backburner. Im hoping we can squeeze it in this quarter, build and launch it, he adds.