Earlier this year, high-end gaming tech company Razerannounced at Google I/O that it would be soon be making its first foray into Android-based gaming consoles. Today at CES, that device madeits public debut. The Razer Forge TV is a micro-console, 44 inches and sellingfor $100, andRazer hopes it willgive the companythree new routes into your living room: as a platform for hardcorePC gaming, for Android gaming, and for Android-based entertainment services via Google Play. The Razer Forge TVisdue out in Q1.Alongside the Forge TV, Razers also unveiling a string ofother products: a couple of Bluetooth-based peripherals the Serval gaming controller and the Turret keyboard and magnetised mouse; the Nabu X, a basic alternative toits Nabu smartband that will sell for as little as $20 to registered Razer Insiders ($50 to others); and a new VR headset and Android-inspired open source virtual reality initiative, in partnership with several other hardware makers. (More on OSVRfrom Kyle here.)In the video above, Min-Liang Tan, the CEO and co-founder of Razer,walks us through the new products and the rationale behind them, which we describe in some more detail below, too.But at same time I also took the opportunity of talking to him to ask a few other questions. Heconfirmed that Intel has indeed investedin the company (news that we broke last year). Hewouldnt comment on the $1 billion valuation figure we heard was reached as partof the deal. And while he is bullish on pushing into lots of new hardware like wearables, hewould notcomment on when Razer may launch a mobile handset, one of the big missing pieces in the companys hardware portfolio. (The full video is embedded below.)TheRazer Forge TV has all the features you would expect from a gaming console aimed at serious gamers:designed for up to four simultaneous players, it has quad-core processing (Qualcomm Snapdragon 805;Quad-Core Krait 450 CPU  2.5 GHz per core);ahigh-endgraphics engine (Adreno 420 GPU  which had also made its debut around the last Google I/O);wireless and network connectivity; 16 GB of internal storage and 2 GB of RAM.One of Razers key components for the product lies in its software. The Forge TV will runon Razers Cortex: Stream (out in spring 2015) and focuses on low-latency and HD resolution, which the company says will help the device cut down on some of the lags and other hiccups that have plagued other streaming services. Cortex: Stream is hardware- and publisher-agnostic will work with Directx9 games and up.On the non-gaming front, the Forge TV will also workas an entertainment hub, letting users stream music, videos and other apps, and photos to their televisions, and also  by way of apps  control the consoleusing iOS, Android, ChromeBook, and Windows devices, and for some Android TV games and media, users may be able to send their Forge TV content back to their Android devices by way of cloud save.Among theForge TV accessories, Razers Serval is a classic-looking, Bluetooth-based gaming controller, designed by the same people at the company that built Razers Xbox controller, the Sabertooth. Itremembers device pairings, in this case four, meaningyou can switchbetween usingthe Razer Forge TV, mobile phone, tablet, and aPC.To tighten the link with PC gaming, Razer has theTurret keyboard and mouse on magnetised pad. Here, the most notable features are the light weight and thin aspect of the keyboard (designed to fit on your lap and more specificallycalled a lapboard by Razer).On the minus side, you have to consider that there are already a lot of different solutions for people who want to stream their PC gaming experience to a TV, let alone those who use gaming consoles to stream entertainment. On the plus side, Min-Liang Tan, the CEO and co-founder of Razer, points out a couple of gaps in the market that the company hopes to tap beyond that.While Google has made a lot of efforts to fill out Androids digital entertainment ambitions, it has yet to really develop a strong gaming product. The Forge is, effectively, something to fill that hole.And there is that price  a fraction of the $500 or more that you might pay for a Steam console, if the Forge TV is compatible with the games you want to be playing.Finally, Razers biggest traction to date has been with hardcore gamers, with some 13 million users to date of its connected hardwareand 4 million monthly users of its software products. Tan regards these millions of users as Razers core customer base, people for whom it develops products to fill out their gaming-focused lifestyles, be it with clothes or gaming controllers, and in that vein, these consoles will appeal to them.Nabu XThegamer and filling out the gamer lifestyle is also at the center of why Razer continues to build out other devices like wearables. The newNabu X, a more simplified version of the Nabu wristband, usesthree colored LED indicators and vibrationsthat alert users to when a message is incoming on a paired mobile device. These lights sit in place of the OLED messaging screen on the higher end Nabu; all the apps in theNabu Marketplace will work across both.The greatest barriers to entry for new technology are price and complexity, and weve eliminated both of those with the Razer Nabu X, Tan says. Other features include an accelerometer that helps measure activity data.Forge TV Details:Price:$99.99 / 99.99 (via Razers online store)$149.99 / 149.99 for the Forge TV and Serval ControllerbundleProduct specs:Qualcomm Snapdragon 805Quad-Core Krait 450 CPU  2.5 GHz per coreAdreno 420 GPU2 GB RAM16 GB storageBluetooth 4.1 + HSWireless 802.11ac 2X2Gigabit EthernetUSB 3.0HDMI 1.4 outputDC Power4.1 in. (105 mm) Width x 4.1 in. (105 mm) Depth x 0.7 in. (17 mm) Height