Razer, the gaming technology company based out of Southern California, has raised another round of funding, a Series C that values it at $1.5 billion, TechCrunch has learned. The backing comes in part from China, specifically the Digital Grid subsidiaryof IT company Hangzhou Liaison Interactive. Yesterday, Hangzhoupublished a statement(a link first published byReuters) confirming the5.01%, $75 million investment in Razer, as well as itsvaluation.TechCrunch understands that the $75 millionis part of a much larger Series C investment.Contacted by TechCrunch, Razer said it wouldnot provide more details about other investors at this time, nor the final size of the round.Theparticipation of Digital Grid  which has backed other companies in the area of smart devices and virtual reality underscores the bigger direction that we have seen Razer take as a company in the recentyears and its intention to keep pushing ahead into new ways of gaming.Razer  company tagline For gamers. Bygamers  made its name originally around peripherals like mouse controllers and keyboards that improved the PC gaming experience.But it has used its strong brand withinthe gaming community to expandinto gaming-optimized laptops and other consoles.And, to make gaming experiences more immersive, Razer has beendoing a lot more with wearablesand virtual reality devices, most recently with its new $200Stargazer webcam.The Stargazeruses Intel RealSense tech tosupercharge thevideo experience with artificial intelligence. The camera not only detects your motion and puts you deeper into the games action, but can be used for security ID and much more.But forging ahead with new hardware and specifically wearables a relatively new and untested area of the market  comes at a price. The documents unveiling the Razer investment also makes note of some of the companys financials that detaila swing to a net loss between October 2014 and September 2015, compared to a net profit in fiscal year 2014, along with revenue and related figures, translated here:For some background on Razers fundraising history, in 2014 we uncovered(and later confirmed) that Razer raised a strategic round of funding from Intel that valued the company at $1 billion. Others who have previously invested in Razer include Accel and IDG Capital Partners. These appear to be detailed in the other category in the cap table published by Hangzhou Liaison Interactive (also translated from the document):Consideringanother potential investor, Razer has also worked on products withLenovo, specifically computers designed for high-end gaming. The financial relationships behind that partnership hasnever been detailed.Its not clear if Intelis part of this latest round, either, but interestingly Intelhas invested alongside Digital Grid before. For example, the two were part of a $24 million round raised by Avegant, makers of Glyph, the VR headset that looks a bit like a pair of headphones when in rest mode.We will update this story as we learn more.