Make way for another hyper local anonymous chat app. Reach, which has justlaunched on iOS, has been built by an Israeli-based startup, using$250,000 inpre-seed money from friends and family to cover their development costs. The team is looking to raise a seed round as it seeks to gain traction with its spin on anon.Why on earth do mobile users need yet another way to anonymously chat withrandoms in their general vicinity? Given there isalready a panoply of choice  whether its Whisper or Secret or Yik Yak or Rooms or Chatous to name a few of this noisy gaggle. Well,Reachs team think they have cooked up something different enough to stand out  by focusing onpeople search. (And they will sure need something novelto standany chance of being heard in such a noisy space.)What do they mean by people search? Users of the Reachapp are encouragedto create short text profiles of themselves (much like Twitter bios, but limited to just 70 characters)  so basically they are asked to self-tag their characteristics andinterests. Suggested keywords on opening up the app, for those struggling to self-label, include things like student, single, 1st year, 2nd year, vegetarian and so on.Reachusers arethen able to browse these text profiles, or search for others by their keyword labels, and send a message if they want to chat with another user.Taking a leaf out of the Facebook/Tinder et al playbook, Reachs initial marketing focus is university campuses. Specifically Manchester University in the U.K., although there is no limit on who can or cant sign up. And theres no verification layer  so you dont need a university email address to gain access, or a Facebook log in, or anything.So, in fact, there is no way of knowing whetherthat 20-something single female student who loves yoga whoyou starttalking to on the app is not actuallya 40-something overweight bloke from Bedford. Especially as profiles are purely text-based. There are no photos at all at this point  although Reachs COOJessica Bohm tells TechCrunch the plan will be to add a photo-sharing option to the one-to-one IM chat feature down the line.Another incoming feature  due in a few weeks  is a broadcast option that will let users send messages to all otherusers who are tagged with certain keywords. So, for instance, users could mass message people tagged chemistry, student and Manchester. The idea being to make it easier to track down people with similar interests, skewed towards them also being in your general vicinity.And, more to the point, to be able to talk to people with overlapping interests without having to tip your hand and reveal exactly who you are. Which may be useful if, for instance, youcome from a certain religious backgroundand aregay. Or, in a more everydayexample, it could be a way to find someone who can give youstudy advicewithout the hassle of having to ask a classmate directlyor find a senior studying the same subject.We are trying to solve the problem of people search, says Bohm. Due to privacy, identity and reputation issues, as well as the basic structure of social networks, we are prevented from reaching outside our social circles. Despite the wide variety of existing ways to connect, it is still difficult to find and instantly communicate with people specifically by their skills, unique attributes, hobbies, interests, knowledge, characteristics, habits etc.Were making connections to people outside of your social circle instant  no more going via community groups, forums, LinkedIn recommendations or into the Facebook other inbox  just direct mobile instant messaging, without any exchange of personal contact details.Of course one of the reasons why people do choose to communicatevia an identity layer such as LinkedIn is to have some kind of certainty that the person they are contacting is who they say they are. Strip away that identity layer, and you might be talking to the proverbial Internet mutt. So sure communications may flow more freely but you cant really be sure who the source is  and therefore how valuable the information is.Early users of the Reach app appear to be frequentlytagging their age, gender and partner status, so perhaps itmight, in the short term, skew towards becominga hook-up/flirting app  although without any photos (currently) and no verified identity its hardlygoingto compete withdating apps. But anonymous sexting  a la Kik or Fling  might be more what the users find to do with it.Its forthcomingbroadcast featuremay bringsomething a bitmore compelling by offering users the ability to talk to likemindedcommunities within the app. But it remains to be seen how useful that is. And too much broadcasting may end up feeling spammy.Broadcasts will be manuallyscreenedto prevent misuse of the feature, including, presumably to prevent egregious general spamming. Theywill also only be delivered to the nearest 50 users initially. Then an up vote/down vote feature will kick in  a la Yik Yak  and those with more up votes get to spread further.The app makers also have a keyword blacklist for user profiles, and say they will generally be moderating the service to try to prevent abusive users. The problem being that digital anonymity isoften synonymous with unpleasantness. And anonymous chat apps have especially struggled with bullying on their platforms, andwith moderating the content someusers create so they dont drive others away from the service.Secret, for example, pivoted at the end of last yearto try to reset its usage.But as TCs Sarah Perez noted then, anonymousapps oftenfall into avicious cycle  where activity drops off if/whencontent becomestoo anodyne. As she put it: Let people misbehave, and the app buzzes with activity. Sanitize the experience to protect peoples feelings (and potentially users lives), and the app fails.Reachs Bohm says the last thing the team wants is for the communication to go in the direction of the meaningless and abusive content we see on Secret and Yikyak. Beyond protecting our users, its also in our interest to make 100% sure this doesnt happen, she adds.But driving usage for a chat service where comms are moderatedbut identityisntverified is likely to run into lots of the sorts of problems weve seen before with these type of anonymousapps. And its not clear whether Reachs feature-set is compellingly different enough to workaroundsuch pitfalls.The teamsgrandvision is to letusers connect by any characteristic with anyone in the world  and its futurebusiness model (the app is currentlyfree) would likely look to attach to some sort of marketplace around linking up people with characteristics/skills that others might be happy to pay for. But they have a long way to go to get there.And a lot of users to convince that yet another anonymous social app is worth their attention.Reach is not practical or useful as an advice-focused app today and is several years away from becoming an app of this sort, admitsBohm.There will be many iterations to the product before then Our current focus is getting people to engage with the app and to make discover-ability possible on Reach. We are not focusing on expertise or real identity at all at this stage  this is not relevant to today.Which sounds likeanother way of saying that anonymity can feel like a savvylaunch strategy for messaging apps in ahugelycrowded space offering the promise of driving low-friction initial usage, and  hopefullypersuading some of those users to stick around over the longer term when the real identity of your business is revealed.But as other anonymous chat apps fizzling out of favor have shown, users with so little invested inan app are terribly fickle. Theydont feel any deep ties  so banking on them sticking around in time for a fully fledged business to emerge and take flight may not be a winningstrategy over the longer term.