
Jonathan Friedman is a partner at LionBird Israel and blogs about the Venture Capital Point of View at VCPOV.com.Startups often ask VCsforpre-pitch meetings. These requests usually are positioned along the lines of, We arent looking for money yet, just advice. Of course, we all know this is just a nice way of getting your foot in the door for a soft pitch. And thats ok; these meetings enable both sides to get acquaintedbeforethe real ask.However, when startups come unprepared to these meetings, they can make a bad first impression that isdifficult to overcome down the line. Beforeschedulingpre-pitch advice meetings withVCs, make sure you follow these three rules of thumb.VCsInvest In Lines, Not Dots. Savvy founders know they need to beginplanning for their next roundof fundraising before theyve even closed their current round. This is because, assuming you are not yet cash-flow positive, the amount you ask for and the milestones you set need to be aligned with next-round investor expectations.Use themeetingas a chance to get feedback on what product and traction milestones would be enough to stand out to next-stage investors. Then, when you come back for the realpitch, the VC knows not only where you are, but how it compares to what you had planned. This results in a better appreciation for the quality of the team, and lends more credibility to your next round of projections.Follow Up With Value. VCsmeet hundreds of entrepreneurs each year; having met you oncepre-pitchdoesnt mean theyll remember you when youre back again months later. To avoid this, make sure you have something specific to follow up with post-meetingthat adds value.For example, after themeeting, if you canhelp out one of their portfolio entrepreneurs, the VC will definitely take more of an interest in you. Another way to add value may be to send them relevant deal flow, showing the strength of your network and generating the feeling of wanting to reciprocate. If this sounds like too much, at the very least send a few relevant articles and exciting updates every now and then.Stagger Meetings Over Time. When you start your fundraising process, ideally youll set it up so you canmeet multipleVCsin parallelin order to end up with multiple term sheets at the same time. However, when you are setting uppre-pitchmeetings, you should limit the number ofVCsyou approach, and stagger your meetings over time.Why? Because in your firstmeeting, youll likely get feedback on concerns you didnt previously consider. Some of these may be about deep problems with your assumptions  problems that take time to iron out. Youll want time to rework thesebeforeapproaching others.Soft-pitchmeetings are a great way to test yourpitchwithout facing the possibility of actual rejection. Theyalso can be a great way to showVCsyou want to build a relationship and youappreciate their input, which may help you to stand out when you are ready to raise money.But dont just ask to meet for the sake ofmeeting. Come prepared with clear goals in mind, ask for specificadvice, and follow up by adding value. Otherwise, you may leave the VC with a negative impression that will bedifficult to overcome.