
Alex Chriss is vice president and general manager of self employed solutions at Intuit.This past yearwill be remembered as the year of the on-demand economy. For many people, especially those outside of Silicon Valley, it seemed to come out of nowhere. On the consumer side, this was almost universally a welcome surprise. The impact on workers was, of course, much more hotly debated.Headline-grabbing events, such as the class-action lawsuit over Ubers supposed worker misclassification, were portrayed as nothing less than the on-demand economy on trial. Decisions by other companies to reclassify theirindependent contractors as employees were interpreted as an attempt to pre-empt an inevitable crack-down from regulators.There was drama at the local level, with Florida declaring that an Uber driver was and then wasnt  an employee, and Seattle passing legislation that effectively paves the wayfor ride-sharing drivers to unionize.I believe that in 2016 well come to realizethese headlines largely missed the point. Instead of worker classification, wellinstead focus on building new solutions that support the future of work and a new generation of entrepreneurs.Heres why: The on-demand economy didnt make traditional employment go away, and it isnt creating a new kind of work that demands new regulatory action. Far from being a phenomenon that came out of nowhere in 2015, the reasons people are choosing on-demand work can be traced back 30 years, or more.The benefits of traditional employment have been steadily eroding since the 1980s. Take, for example, the fact that:During this same time, the contingent workforce has been steadily growing. Full- and part-time contingent workers represented 17 percent of the U.S. workforce 25 years ago; they have reached 36 percent today, and are expected to grow to 43 percent by 2020.So, the on-demand economy is simply the next iteration of an existing trend. People are choosing on-demand work because it offers them the autonomy, flexibility and frictionless access to customers they need to take control of their careers.At Intuit, we hear this every day from the tens of thousands of freelancers who use our products to manage their personal and business finances. Were also seeing it in the data. We recently released the initial findings of a new study of more than 4,000 people working for 11 different on-demand platforms. The study found that:This data shows that employment as we know it has shifted. Its not black or white employee or contractor its a rainbow of options. Instead of trying to categorize workers, its time to focus on how best to enable on-demand companies to grow and thrive, while also protecting and enabling workers to find the flexibility they need to be successful.Moving the debate in this direction will take a concerted effort. It will require a deeper empathy for the needs and expectations of on-demand workers themselves. Who are they? Why did they choose this work? How satisfied are they? What do they want?The 2016 presidential election is a great opportunity to raise the profile of the real needs of on-demand workers. It should factor in to conversations about the middle class, income inequality and the pursuit of the American dream. After all, the 2016 election may be the last one in U.S. history before people working at least part-time as freelancers comprise a majority of the working populations vote.The best place for government to start is to give innovators in the space the freedom to explore new ways of providing support to workers.Just as technology removes the friction of finding a job, why cant technology remove the friction of supplementing benefits and dealing with taxes? For example, at Intuit were already delivering more than $3,800 in average tax savings to users of our new QuickBooks Self-Employed product.Existing rules and regulations around employee classification discourage marketplaces from partnering closely with companies providing worker services, such as healthcare, taxes or retirement, out of fear theyll be subject to a misclassification suit. How could we work together to better support the workers if we removed this risk?2016 needs to be the year we shift from looking backward, trying to fit new innovations into old paradigms. It needs to be the year we look forward, embrace the future of work and find innovative ways to power the new economy.Above all else, in 2016 we should celebrate people working on-demand jobs for their willingness to take charge of their careers, for their refusal to sit around waiting for the glory days of traditional jobs to return and for their determination to embrace new opportunities.