Call it on-demand on steroids. A 10-month-old San Francisco company called Recharge has developed an app that enables users to book a stay in hotel for just for 67 cents a minute, or $40 an hour.The offeringsounds both brilliant and preposterous, yet it has already attracted some smart investors, including Scott and Cyan Banister and early Google engineer Harry Cheung, whove provided the company with $650,000 in seed funding. Its raising up to $2.5 million altogether.To learn more about the company, we chattedrecently with CEO Emmanuel Bamfo, who held numerous brief stints at startups, including at the carpooling company Hitch (acquired by Lyft), before teaming up with two former classmates at Washington University in St. Louis to create Recharge.TC: Okay, so tell us about this seemingly crazy idea that just might work. Who is your target audience?EB: Somebody who came up to San Francisco from L.A. for a day trip booked a Recharge earlier today. We see folks who just want to change a diaper or nurse their baby. We get people who live in Menlo Park but work in San Francisco and who want to shower and take a little time for themselves before they head to an evening engagement.Its a real need that were solving. [Customers] are getting privacy in the city to nap or shower or prepare for something. You cant do that at Starbucks.TC: This concept is very much like that of Breather, which provides on-demand rooms in cities so that visitors can pop in to relax with friends or maybe make some quiet calls. We should also note that Breather hasraised nearly $28 million from investors. Why is this better? EB: Its similar to Breather, but a Breather is in an office space. You cant use it on the weekend. Its a 9 to 6 oclock kind of thing. Were offering users a bed, a shower, a bathroom. Thats not currently on the market elsewhere, which is why we think wereseeing people from Salesforce use it, people from the venture community, from law firms. Weve had guests stay 12 minutes; weve had someone stay 25 hours.TC: Twenty-five hours sounds like lousyplanning, but youre saying theres no minimum stay?EB: There isnt. We have a relationship with Hyatt and Starwood Properties in San Francisco, and every time someone books a Recharge, that person can stay as long as he or she likes and the hotel will clean the roomafterward. Someone might stay 20 minutes one day at one property, then stay again at a different property for two hours before an evening event. Its worth it to the hotel.TC: And you split the revenue?EB: We share revenue with the property that [ranges] depending on the day and time and the time of the month.TC: Are you on the hook for a certain amount of inventory? EB: No. We arent buying these rooms and reselling them. If people come, we make money and so does the hotel. If not, we dont. But we have inventory every single day, and weve brought evidence that thehotelscan make money from [us]. Were creating a new source of revenue for hotels in bringing them local customers; were also creating anew source of productivity for customers. People dont have to drive back to Palo Alto to prepare for an evening thing.TC: You said your revenue split changes depending on the day and time. Do users pay surge pricing, too, or else do you offer discounts to people who want to stay, say, eight hoursinstead of 12 minutes?EB: We dont have surge pricing, and right now, when a customer wants to come for eight hours, they pay by the minute. We do plan to include a day rate but we dont have that right now.TC: You quietly launched last summer in a handful of hotels in the Bay Area. Can you say how many people have used a Recharge so far? EB: Were not talking publicly about our numbers, but weve grown 104 percent month over month, and 25 percent of stays are coming from repeat customers.Were operating just in the Bay Area right now, though were opening up coverage, starting with the [San Francisco] airport and we plan to go to L.A., New York, and London next.TC: Alot of people are going to see Recharge asa place for hanky panky, because, well, humans. Is this something you or your hotel partners are concerned about? EB: We havent seen the rock-and-roll customers. Were in prime-time San Francisco. These are business hotels. And you can be rated by the hotel, so theres a certain expectation [that users will behave]. Theres ample evidence that people want to use these [hotel rooms] as a short-term living space beyond thinking about [sex].You should check one out.TechCrunch readers, you can check out the service, too. Right now, if youvisit the site and input the code TECHCRUNCH, the company will give you up to 30 minutes free.