Restaurant reservation service Quandoo, a major European rival to OpenTable, is being acquired by Japans Recruit in a deal worth 27.11 billion yen, thats around$219 million.Berlin-based Quandoo, which was founded in 2012, took a strategic investment from Recruit  via itsRGIP venture capital fund  in October, and now the Japanese company has returnedtosnap up the remaining92.91 percent of the company to give it 100 percent ownership. Last year Quandoo closed its Series $25m growth financing round lead by Piton Capital, along with Holtzbrinck Ventures and DN Capital.Quandoo is an online reservation system that is used by over6,000 restaurants in 10 countries in Europe, South Africa, Lebanon and Singapore. The company said that it is seeing particular momentum inGermany, Italy, Austria, Switzerland, Turkey and Poland, but it did notprovide more specific figures.The deal is an interesting one because Recruit, as the name suggests, started outin the business of connecting job seekers with potential employers when it began life in 1960. It has since branched out to become a global matching platform that offers 10 different kinds of services, including HR, education, travel, housing and (in Japan) dining.The deal for Quandoo is a move that Recruit saidwill expand its service and global reach aspart of itslong term vision to become the number one group in global matching across its spread of businesses. (Recruit wants to be the worlds top marketing business by 2030 and top HR connector by 2020, for example.)Restaurant bookings are one area whereRecruit sees potential growth. It said in announcementthat Quandoo is well placed to developin Europe, where it claimedthat just 16 percent of all reservations are made online right now. The [online reservation] market [in Europe] is expected to grow substantially going forward, it added.Quandoo closed $25 million in new fundinglast summer to increasethe competition with OpenTable andexpand into Asia and Latin America. Recruit is likely to help on that front, particularly in Asia.Technology and food is fairly frenzied space right now. Rocket Internet and its FoodPand order-on-demand service went on an acquisition frenzy last month,buying up no fewer than nine rivals across the world. Indias restaurant guide Zomato has executed an aggressive global expansion plan, which has seen it roll into Europe and then the U.S.  it acquired IACs UrbanSpoon in the latter move. Then theres Yelp, which last yearboughtRestaurant-Kritikin Germany and Cityvox in France.