Hell hath no fury like a Reddit moderator scorned. And boyare they pissed right now.Reddit, the site that is often billed as the front page of the internet, is going through a serious revolt right now.Themoderators behind a number of the most popularsubreddit pages on the site  which are crucial to Reddits traffic and appeal  have made their communities private, thus shutting them off from the wider internet and new users, in protest atthe departure of a key Reddit stafferand ongoing poor communications.Victoria Taylor, the employee responsible for managing Reddits popular Ask Me Anything interviews and a key to-go person for moderators,was let go today.Reddit confirmed her departure to TechCrunch but said it doesnt comment on individual employee matters. We didnt receive a reply when we reached out to Reddit co-founderAlexis Ohanianon the matter.It looks like Taylors firing may have beentriggered by an AMA with Jesse Jackson which spiralled out of control following questions from Reddit users and Jacksons replies. That said anow deleted answer on Quora suggests that there may bemore to it than that.Why was Victoria (former reddit AMA coordinator) fired? Deleted, but plausible answer. pic.twitter.com/0v3wNrHNkr Paul Haddad (@tapbot_paul) July 3, 2015Irrespective of why she left, Taylors firing prompted Reddits entire AMA thread  which has millions of subscribers  to be locked down, leaving the site in a chaotic state.That situation alone would be bad enough but, this is Reddit, and theres already vast amounts of tension between the sites users/moderators and its management, chiefly CEO Ellen Pao. In true Reddit fashion, hundreds of subreddit moderators  who collectively havetens of millions of members/subscribers  revoltedby hitting the private switch.Some of the biggest subreddits going dark include:Plenty more are debating whether to go privateorpolling their members. Eventhose that are staying open are making it clear that they are deeply unhappy withrecent developments.For example, heres the message at /r/askscience, which has over five million subscribers:Today in AskScience we wish to spotlight our solidarity with the subreddits that have closed today, whose operations depend critically on timely communication and input from the admins. This post is motivated by the events of today coupled with previous interactions AskScience moderators have had in the past with the reddit staff.This is an issue that has been chronically inadequate for moderators of large subreddits reaching out to the admins over the years. Reddit is a great site with an even more amazing community, however it is frustrating to volunteer time to run a large subreddit and have questions go unacknowledged by the people running the site.We have not gone private because our team has chosen to keep the subreddit open for our readers, but instead stating our disapproval of how events have been handled currently as well as the past.This live thread is being updated with the status of other subreddits in real-time, if you are curious to know more.This situation is a serious one for Reddit. Last month, the site upset many of its most ardent users when it closed down five subreddits on account of harassing content contained within them.Those subreddits did violate Reddits community policy, but the selective enforcement of the sites guidelines confused and angered many, since other subreddits  some of which contained arguably worse content  were left untouched while these five were closed.This time around, its hard to side with Reddit in any way. Themove to fire Taylor  and perhaps most importantly, fail to inform moderators who work closely with her about the change  seems prettyshambolic. The backlash was inevitable given Reddits recent issues, but not all moderators areturning away fromthe site altogether.In one open letter, a moderator explains that Taylors exit is merely the straw that broke the camels back, and that the situation underlines theneed for genuine changes.We feel as though Reddits communication with moderators as well as with the wider community, has been lacking. This is exemplified by the fact that Victoria was one of the few admins who regularly communicated with moderatorsthe fact she was dismissed without notice is not only an insult, given that reddit has poorly communicated its decision to dismiss a major communicator, but has also lead to many AMAs needing to be cancelled, which could have been avoided simply by forwarning.The letter lays out the case for Reddit improving dialogue with moderators, who are a crucial part of the service, through new tools and a proposed moderator mail service.Reddits moderators are making their voices heard. The ball is now in Reddits court  butyou have to wonder how many more protests this website can take before it buckles.When Digg died it was a long, painful decline. Reddit is collapsing so quickly theres a live thread to watch it https://t.co/TrGO7cE5i7 Austen Allred (@AustenAllred) July 3, 2015Update:Writing on a private board for moderators, Ohanian asked for private Subreddits to be made public again. He also pledged to work on improving communication.