Its been said the death of email newsletters has been greatly exaggerated. Case in point, perhaps: a new startup called RefreshBox, which lets anyone easilycurate their own weekly newsletter. The service has seen 62 percent week-over-week growth in the now 15 weeks its been live, and todayserves 3,700 subscriptions to some 1,200 email recipients from 207 different curators.Currently, the services early adopters are largely tech-focused, given the co-founders own background in the industry  they met while building their own separate startups at DreamIts accelerator in New York. Plus,the service also recently benefitted from trending on Product Hunt.Among thegroup of email newsletter creators are some notable names, including Google developer advocate Paul Kinlan; angel investor Guy Gamzu who sends out newsletters about startups; TechStars Londons Jon Bradfordwho emails about accelerators; Gili Golander who emails about growth hacking (the most popular newsletter so far); and David Greenwood, who emailsabout digital health. There are also mystery curators, like this unnamed VC.Whats interesting about RefreshBox is that none of its creators are actually writing their own content, but instead are putting together their own, personal must reads of the week. That is, its a tool that lets them share the five most important links to articles they think are worth a look.As one of RefreshBoxs co-founders noted, its sort of like an 8tracks for email newsletters, referencing the startup that lets users build their own streaming music playlists.RefreshBox, he notes, isa way to peer over the shoulder of some of the industrys giants, and see what theyre reading. This co-founder, who has previously founded a couple of startups in the past, is still working his day job and didnt want to have his name appear in TechCrunch just yet. But the team also includes developers Roy Amir (previously CTO of Trippinin.com), Zeev Jelinek (CTO of instru-magic.com) and community manager Tali Arkushin.For newsletter curators, the idea with RefreshBox is that it lets them build up a community around their expertise without requiring theyspend a lot of time being active on social media or writing their own blog posts. Instead, they can point to quality content they think is worth the read, while using a Chrome browser extension to make their selections as they come across them. As forrecipients, they get the benefit of a time-saving professional best read hitting their inbox every week.A tag list and search box on the RefreshBox website lets you quickly find relevant newsletters, and the startup has so far found that its readers are subscribing to three newsletters, on average. The service is seeing a 38 percent click rate, and of its nearly4,000 subscriptions to date, there have been only 32 unsubscribe actions so far.Despite RefreshBoxs quick growth, the startup is still sort of in pet project status  the founders are working their jobs, having built the service in seven months of nights and weekends. But that may soon change  the team is looking to raise an angel round so they can focus on their efforts with RefreshBox full-time.The service will remain free to use, the startup tells us, but they may choose to eventually monetize their subscriptions by way of sponsored links included alongside the five recommended reads. This revenue would be shared with the curator, though specifics are still yet to be determined.