
Ramona Ortega is the Founder of Mi Dinero Mi Futuro, a financial planning tech startup. Intels announcement of its $125 million fundto support women and minority-led startups last week was invigorating news to many who are vying for the few venture dollars that arrive in the pockets of women and minorities.Its good timing, and it comes on the heels oftheU.S. Securities and Exchange Commissionsnew regulations under RegA+ which just might be a new avenueformuch needed capital for the same group of entrepreneurs.Of the$48 billion invested by venture capitalists in 2014, only 7 percent went to women-led companies. That paucity is in spite ofresearch by theKauffman Foundationshowing that female-led companies have a better return on investment, achieving 12 percent higher revenue than male-owned tech companies. The investment numbers are even lower for Black and Hispanic founders of companies.The reasonsso few women and minoritiesget venture dollars has been the topic of great debate over the last year. Many point to the lack of women and minorities in tech, fewer available networks, and gender bias, as highlighted in theEllen Pao case.While the problem of gender and race bias in the venture capital community will take time to resolve, thesenew regulations providing for equity crowdfunding might just be a viable alternative in the short-term.Reg A +is the newest offspring of theJumpstart Our Business Startups Act, also known as theJOBS Act. It ismeant to create greater access to capital for private businesses. Under the new regulations, private companies can raise up to $50 million from both accredited and non-accredited investors.Prior regulations limited private investments in companies and startups to onlyaccredited investors, or otherwise wealthy investors. In2014, that definition applied to approximately 8 million people.The new regulations not only remove this restriction, allowing non-accredited investors, or the average citizen to invest, but they provide an avenue for startups to go directly to the public to raise much needed seed capital.These new rulesare not perfect, but the SEC attempted to strike a balance between making the requirements less arduous while also protecting the average investor. Under the new rules, non-accredited investors will be limited to investing10 percent of their incomeor net worth. There will alsobe two tiers of fundraising.Tier 1will allow companies to raise up to $20 million a year with limited regulation but will be required to register under state laws. Under Tier 2, a company may raise $50 million but will be subject to greater scrutiny and reporting.So why is this potentially big news for women and minorities?The rules allow entrepreneurs to raise money outside of Silicon Valley and democratizes investing by allowing a more diverse group of individuals the opportunity to potentially catch a rising financial star, a benefit that has been traditionally the domain of the wealthy accredited investors.The ability for an entrepreneur to go directly to the public is potentially a game changer for women and minorities. That is true because women and minorities start businesses at twice the rateof other groups,but are often confined to the realm of small businesses due to the lack of access to capital to grow.Like Kickstarter, Reg A+ operates as a type of equity crowdfunding. What that means is that instead of getting a tote-bag or some other token for your $500 investment as you might on a crowdfunding site, you will now receive actual equity, or ownership in the company. For those who followed theOculus saga(the company bought by Facebook for $2 billion), they can understand why equity is better than a tote bag.FundAthena,co-founded by African-American serial entrepreneurKim Folsom, is the firstonline Reg A+ marketplace and was established to directly address the female funding disparity.A recent report byMass Solutionspredicts that by 2016, the crowdfunding industry will account for $34.4 billion ininvestments.Reg A+ will only increase that amount.To be sure, Reg A+ is not for every investor or every innovator. Not all companies will be successful just because they have access to public dollars. That istrue in venture capital as well.For one, the legal costs associated with the registration and audit process could be well over $25K and be prohibitive to many startups.Reg A+ does not directly solve the ongoing dilemma of access to venture capital dollars for women and minorities. But it does disrupt the investor status quo and provides a much needed alternative to capital for those who need it most.