You might wonder how, exactly, 13-year-old LinkedIn became a $25 billion company. It wasnt the first social network. The company admits that, even today, people find it very confusing. Plenty of ambitious competitors have sprung up to take on the company. Yet theyve all been smoked, eventually, by LinkedIn.Its a familiar story in the Bay Area, where many industry-dominating companies  from Uber to Airbnb to Facebook  are based. Thats no accident, says LinkedIn cofounder Reid Hoffman. In fact, this fall, Hoffman is teaching a class at Stanford  his alma mater  on how startups like LinkedIn and the others grow into what he calls scale-ups.Another word hes introducing into the ever-ballooning vernacular of Silicon Valley: Blitzscaling. The idea: that to compete in the global, networked age, companies need to outmaneuver more competitors than ever, and they need to do it, crucially, by scalinglightning fast.The idea for the new class came from Hoffmans involvement with a startup course held last fall at Stanford by Y Combinator President Sam Altman. Hoffman was among many of Altmans guest lecturers. But while Hoffman talked with students about how to be a great founder, another topic  the importance of being able to scale  nagged at him afterward.You can get 10 technical people and [some momentum] in a lot of different [geographies], he says. But we create so many unicorns in Silicon Valley. The reason, he says, is the best Silicon Valley startups understand that so-called first mover advantage only gets a company so far. To win the game, it has to be the first mover at scale.Hoffman wants more promising founders to understand the difference. Indeed, despite being notoriously busy  Hoffman already spends his weekends advising startups, while splitting his weekdays between LinkedIn and Greylock Partners, where hes a VC  Hoffman sounds enthusiastic about sharing what knows, including abouthow startups achieveproduct-market fit, how they settle on an appropriate financing strategy, and how a sales model changes as a business grows.Hoffman has enlisted plenty of high-wattage help in theendeavor, too. Among the numerous speakers whove agreed to participate in one-on-one conversations for Hoffmans students include Altman, Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes, LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner, former YouTube VP Shishir Mehrotra and Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer.Hoffman wont be alone in leading the class, either. While he expects to head up the twice-weekly, 10-week-long course whenever Im in town, which he says will be half the time, realistically, his friends John Lilly (the former Mozilla exec turned Greylock Partner), Allen Blue (LinkedIns VP of Product Management) and renowned startup adviser Chris Yeh, will also be taking turns.Stanford students who plan to start or help build a large-scale company  which probably applies to most Stanford students these days  are the primary target forthe class.Toward that end, Hoffman is asking for students to fill out an application process that will help him identify whod most benefit from the class. (Presumably, this process will also help Greylock identify promising candidates for future funding.) Psst, Stanford students, you can apply right here.The class is also holding a number of seats for those who arent affiliated with Stanford but who are keen to help some other region of the world build a blitzscaling ecosystem. For those class hopefuls, theres a separate application link right here.The deadline for both is this Friday, September 18.For the rest of us who want to learn from Hoffman and company, some good news. He tells us that, as with Altmans class last fall, there will be videos of each class posted online so anyone who wants can learn more about scaling up the right way.In the meantime, get ready to hear the expressionblitzscaling more often. Gently ribbedabout it, Hoffman tells us: Its a pretty unique phenomenon that requires a unique set of skills. Am I enamored with the word? he says, laughing. No. But I do think we need a termfor it.