
Hassan Baig runs ClubInternet, a technology company focused on 'The Next Billion.' In the wake of therecent suspensionand growing calls for permanently banningInternet.orgs app(called Free Basics) in India, it seems a course-correction is now unavoidable for the initiative. A step in the right direction was announcing theInternet.orgdeveloper platform in May 2015, allowing developers to submit their web apps for consideration.The idea was that the Free Basics team would appraise the web apps, publishing those that met a certain standard, giving published developers more eyeballs and Free Basics users greater choice.And although these developer apps did not get the same visibility as the official partners Free Basicsinitially launched with (e.g., Bing, AccuWeather, Wikipedia etc.) being relegated to a secondary tab within the Free Basics experience it was nevertheless a step in the right direction from the earliest incarnation of theInternet.orgapp.Left: The main page in Free Basics. Top right: Sub-menu links to more services. Bottom right: Developer apps listing appears once More Services is tapped.Internet.orgenvisions Free Basics as a kind of dial tone of theInternet a default that anyone should be able to freely access as long as they are in a coverage area and have anInternet-capable device. And in inviting developers to this platform, clearly the brain trust behind the initiative was looking to ameliorate the critique that Free Basics is exclusive and beholden to corporate interests.But with the current suspension of Free Basics being enforced in India (Free Basics biggest test bed), its now obvious that the change hasnt done enough to sway the tide. Where does it go from here? Its hard to predict, but perhaps its high time to rethink the foundations of Free Basics and Internet.org.Firstly, starting with Free Basics, why not entirely remove the hierarchical distinction between the apps of corporate partners and published developers, and provide a public API that can be integratedas long as a pre-defined technical and UX spec is followed?There need not be strict appraisal in the middle; taking more of a Google Play Store approach than an Apple App Store approach. The spec could be finalized per country via consultations between stakeholders such as host governments, usability experts, civil society representatives, telecom operators and, of courseInternet.orgitself.Moreover, Facebook could ameliorate another chunk of the criticism if it credibly anonymized user data on the Free Basics platform, discontinuing its policy of keeping excessive personally identifiable information.From the users point of view, theyll experience a monolithic list of organically sorted apps they can browse and try for free: no gatekeeping, no preferential treatment and transparently open to every developer who connects to the API.Secondly, why not improve the rather rudimentary Free Basics product, too? For instance, from the current basic website listing, how about turning it into a tool that not only redirects newbie users to various web applications, but also shows them how basic digital conventions work? So far, it seems neither Internet.orgnor those in opposition get what the state of being unconnected is like. Heres a glimpse:Is Google Usable? (abridged) from Hassan Baig on Vimeo.This video is from an actual usability experiment (one of many my team has conducted). For those who naively believe that Internet.orgs Free Basics is undoubtedly inferior to free data schemes, theres another side to the argument, as well. What do you think the test subject in the video above will try if given free, open access to billions of web pages? Nothing. He wouldnt know what to do with it. It would be like giving a computer from 2016 to an American in 1960, and then further cranking up the challenge by throwing in illiteracy and languages barriers.To be fair, there are exceptions  those resourceful enough to onboard all this tech through self-teaching. But such feel-good anecdotes fail to create a meaningful dent in all those vast regions of the world where entire generations have never developed a culture of using technology. Such demographics  forming the bulk of the four billion-plus unconnected worldwide  can really be helped in theirInternetjourneys if the tech is designed with their needs in mind.Hence an app like Free Basics meant to onboard newbies toInternetservices ought to include functionality to nurture the required mental models among its target demographic. Free Basics currently doesnt do that, and thats a miss. But thats also an opportunity. An opportunity to build a product that even its staunchest critics will be forced to concede adds real, tangible value to the world.Thirdly, instead of running Internet.orglike a department within Facebook, why not alter its structure to something akin to the Mozilla Foundation? That is, as anindependent entity, not-for-profit and with a loose connection to Facebooks core business rather than a direct one. This, too, can help sanitize a sizeable chunk of the negative perception that Internet.orghas hitherto been unable to separate itself from. It signals alignment of incentives that will potentially diminish many concerns held by those on the other side of the fence.Not all of Free Basics criticism is rooted in objectivity. The movement against it has snowballed into a kind of me too parade, where some of the most vociferous participants are shooting first and asking questions later. There are actual postersmocking Free Basicsas a way of getting more players on to Candy Crush; theres a YouTubecomic likening it tovaginal tightness gel[sic]; theres a marketer-turned-venture capitalistpropagandizing itas Facebook jail.Theres speculation that Facebook isusing subcontractorsto bribe Indian government officials. Pro net-neutrality activists who  only a couple of months ago  lined up for selfies with Mark Zuckerberg on his trip to India, are now incessantly censuring him on their social media feeds. Most of this inanity distracts from what, at its core, is a serious debate.Ultimately, as more people come online and become engaged users, many among them will get exposure to Facebooks core offerings. This is inevitable because social networking is a veritable honey pot, and Facebook virtually owns the space with its triad of social networking, messaging and photo sharing.Facebook does not really need to hold a conspicuous spot at the very top of Free Basics for this to happen, which is where it currently appears in the Free Basics experience, giving critics needless ammunition to second-guess the motive behindInternet.org.Who would disagree that the world doesnt need a 911-type service for Internetaccess that helps onboard all, and is democratized for every developer? We just have to unearth the right model to do it. To be fair, the domain is in its infancy, and nobody can claim to be an expert in it;Internet.orgs teething pains are part of the process.But whats important is thatInternet.orghas begotten a conversation that the world needed to have. By evolving to the next step, itcan move this conversation toward actualization, helping shape the lives of more than four billion people and their progeny yet to come.