The NFL continues to embrace streaming as it furthers its attempts to reach a generation of fans who dont necessarily tune in through traditional TVviewing. In addition to todays news that all of the 2015 NFL postseason games willbe streamed live online and on mobile, a new Reuters report has surfaced which indicates the NFL plans to live-stream all three of the games scheduled to be played in London next season, too.As you may recall, NFL and Yahoo previouslyteamed upon the effort to live-stream a London game- the first time the NFLallowed a technology company to live-stream a game to viewers for free. The companies said in October that game, a match-up Buffalo Bills and Jacksonville Jaguars, attracted over 15 million viewers. However, ESPN later pointed out that the 15.2 million figure referred to the total number of uniques who watched some or all of the games stream, but the average minute audience was much lower  2.36 million worldwide, or 1.64 million in the U.S.For comparisons sake, around 20 million tune into afternoon games aired on CBS or FOX, while NBCs Sunday Night Football can see as high as nearly 25 million viewers, according to Nielsen data.Yahoo reportedly paid $20 million for the streaming rights, but ended up dropping ad prices from $200,000 to $100,000. This led to the ad slots selling out.Despite the lower numbers, the sports organization touted the live-stream as a success and promised it would do the same thing again. In a blog post announcing the metrics last fall, the NFL said: All these numbers boil down to one simple fact: Get ready for more streaming NFL games.According to the reportout now from Reuters, both Apple and Google are in the running as bidders for the forthcoming live-streamed London games, which include theIndianapolis Colts versus the Jacksonville Jaguars on Oct. 2; the New York Giants versusthe St Louis Rams on Oct. 23; and the Washington Redskins versus the Cincinnati Bengals on Oct. 30.The report did not say how much the rights to the streams would cost, or whether or not the companies could bid on the games individually or as a package deal.The news of the London live-streams follows on another announcement released today by the NFL which says all of the 2015 postseason games will be streamed live online and on mobile, including the 2016 Pro Bowl and Super Bowl 50. The games will be available across desktop, tablet, smartphones and connected TV platforms, like the Xbox, through NFL partners.All the games will be available on mobile phones through the NFL Mobile from Verizon application. (Disclosure: TechCrunch parent company AOL is owned by Verizon). Live game access is available to Verizon Wireless subscribers.Other partners, including CBS, FOX, NBC, and ESPN will offer live streams through their own platforms.Specifically, CBS will live stream all its AFC Playoff games and its exclusive broadcast of Super Bowl 50 through CBSSports.com, as well as through CBS Sports on Xbox One, Apple TV, Roku players and TVs, Chromecast, Windows 10, iPad and Android tablets. CBSs post-season games will be available through the NFL on Xbox One.FOX, meanwhile, will offer NFL Playoff games throughFOX Sports GOfor PCs, Android TV, and Amazon Fire TV, but authentication using your pay TV account info will be required. NBCs NFL Playoff games will be available throughNBC Sports Live Extra on PCs, tablets, Apple TV, Roku and Amazon Fire TV.ESPN and ABCssimulcast of the Kansas City at Houston Wild Card game as well as ESPNs telecast of the 2016 Pro Bowl will be available through WatchESPN.In addition, international fans can watch postseason gamesthrough NFL Game Pass, the NFLs subscription service. U.S. fans can watch all postseason games on-demand in Game Pass, the NFL says.The NFLs website offers details of each games time and streaming availability.