Zalora, the fashion-focused e-commerce site backed by Rocket Internet, is selling its businesses in Thailand and Vietnam to retailerCentral Group, according to multiple sources close to the deal.We reported the planned sale earlier this monthandhave since confirmed that Bangkok-headquartered Central Group is the buyer. The deal is said to beagreed on in principle and currentlysubject to paperwork and red tape.A Zalora spokesperson declined to comment.Central Group did not respondto multiple requests for comment.Central Group may not be a name well-known outside of Southeast Asia, but it is one of the regions largest retail players with a huge footprintin Thailand and forays into Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia and other countries. The groups assets, which include multiple shopping malls and national department store chains, are worth close to $10 billion and it employs some 70,000 people across its operations.The group has been tipped to enter the online commerce space for some time, and our sources say that it has struck a deal to buy thecountry businesses from Zalora for around $10 million each. Onlineis estimated to account for around 3percent of all commerce in Southeast Asia and, while that figure has grown in recent years and stands toincrease as the Internet becomes more widely accessible throughoutthe region, it remains a nascent segment that few offline retailers have stepped into.The low level of online commercehas been a challenge for Rocket Internets e-commerce startups, which started out with overly ambitious targets, missed their projections for profitability,and have required significant capital to continue. Lazada received a $500 million investment from Alibaba this month after running out of cash, while Zalora remains unprofitable.Rocket Internets latest financial resultsshowZaloras revenue rose 78 percent to208 million ($234 million) in 2015, but its net loss increased36 percent to93.5 million ($105 million).One comparison to Central Groups move comes by way of IndonesiasLippo Group, aconglomeratewith $15 billion in assets across a range of sectors that include retail. The group created MatahariMall, an online version of itsdepartment store, with its first move into online commerce last year. There are also parallelsin China, where Alibaba has invested in physical retailers InTimeand Sunningto explore the potential of combiningoffline and online commerce.While Lippo Group pledged to investhundreds of millions in its e-commerceventure, it is unclear what sum Central Group has set aside. Whats more certain is that the Thailand-based group is getting a running start with the acquisition of assets from four-year-old Zalora. Zaloradoesnt publishbusiness figures per country, but it claims 10 million downloads of its mobile apps and 1.4 million transactions per year across 10 countries in Asia-Pacific.Sources close to Zalora suggest that the company is selling the businesses in an effort to streamline its costs and move toward becoming profitable. Last week we reported that two of the companies managing directors have left the firm over apparent fallings out with Global Fashion Group, the $3.5 billion-valuedentitythat manages Rocket Internets five emerging market fashion brands. Tension apparently circles around GFGs prioritization of investment in more developedmarkets, like the Middle East, over parts of Southeast Asia which it deems to be less capable of returning value.Zaloraraised over$200 million from investorspriorto becoming a GFG business unit in November 2014. Now its money comes from GFG, which raises capital centrally for all of Rocket Internets fashion sites.