IPrice as Reviewed: $235 at North FaceThe most unusual featureof The North Faces design on the Access Pack is the pulley system. The first is within the main zipper compartment, where youd house a tablet or a very small ultrabook. A small handle extends to the bottom of the pack, so that when you pull it back, your device of interest is pulled towards you. The second is a more durable version meant for a laptop up to 15, with two supplementary ejector tabsfor things like phones or portable battery packs.Of course, this makes me ask: why not just takethe device out of the bag, like a person normally would?Or better yet, the way humans have been taking things out of satchelsand bags for probably hundreds of years. Why would I ever waste (more) time to do this? It takes both hands to provide a net force strong enough to remove hardwarefrom the bag, whereas I could just unzip the pouch with one hand and remove the laptop/tablet/etc. with the same hand, or the other.The Access Pack isnt a complete waste of money, however  gadgets are truly safe andsound in it. It mightmake you look like a turtle when its on your back, cantstand upright for its life, and will create a sweat patch on your back that is very uncomfortable. But, it does succeed at one thing: opening the door for more drastic backpack designs, especially withinthe mass market.Its a space that has been relatively untouched and boring for quite some time, with only a few cool entries by highfashion brands, like the Paris-based Cote et Ciel or Adidas Y-3 division.If a clothing and accessories company like The North Face is willing to make an oddly-shaped backpack for the everyday individual and sell itfor a sticker price where youd expect higher-end materials, then surely someone else is gutsy enough to try something fresh and new  and that doesnt make me look like a turtle.You might not catch me walking around in Manhattan or Brooklyn with the Access Pack on my back, but you might see it somewhere.Theres definitely a market that exists forlarge backpacks designed forcarrying expensive technology. However, style points are not easy to come across with the Access Pack, and its dry weight is quite frankly too heavy.But if you dont care about any of that, and just want a backpack that can carry all your technology from point A to B in a way thats safe, while also throwing in a pulley and a few ejector tabs, then be my guest  the Access Pack wouldntmind.