Though the TUMI Luke Roll Top is expensive for a backpack, itpartially makes up for this by taking amilitary-inspired look (the roll top) and heavily stylizing it. Thissays a lot, considering that TUMI typically focuses on appealing to the business aesthetic, rather than just selling pretty backpacks  it just so happens that this one manages to do both.Price as reviewed: $395 at TUMIThe usageof a backpack is very linear: It goes on your back and carries your things. Whatever, whenever or wherever your bag might find you is separate from the bags job to survive the trip, while also keeping your belongings safe (and easily accessible). This backpack does a good job doing just that.Think about your favorite shirt, gadget, hat, even the shoes you wear: the taking to heart of the object isnt instantaneous, but really a series of small events that lead to your loving it. So you can easily take it out a couple of times and it will turn into your favorite backpack.Unfortunately for me,byliking too many well-designed backpacks that are suitable for different scenarios cycling, business, adventuring and so on  I dont really have the chance to use it for everything. After all, there isnt really a bag that can do it all.And yes, for the business travelers, theres a little leather card holder for your contact information  the whole bag exhibits thesethoughtful and usefuladditions.One thing that always concerns me about backpacks is how they look on my shoulders, but more importantly, a blazer. If the straps are too thick, you look funny. Too thin, it looks like a drawstring bag. Somehow TUMI incorporated tons of cushioning on relatively chunky straps without setting my blazer style off. Which is nice; and again, something that makes this roll top appealing to the business traveler.Also, theres little to no back sweat, thank heavens.Things I dislike about TUMIs bag are more subjective, like its lack of more color options other thanblack, leather, urban camo and green, or the exclusion of an elastic pocket for something like a water bottle  arguably you could just zip the bottle inone of the front pockets.For thosewith the budget who needa business pack styled like a roll top that can double as an everyday carry, then TUMIs offering should be right up your alley. Its comfortable to wear, holds a ton of gear (enough for a weekend trip), looks good and holds appearancewith different levels of dress.