
Dylan Eller is a freelance writer and musician. In 1979,BrianEnogavealecture at the inaugural New Music America Festival in New York onaveryBrianEno-ish topic. Titled The RecordingStudioasaCompositionalTool,it is most definitely worthalistenoraread. In the lecture,Enodiscusses the ever-evolving relationship music has with technology, beginning with the invention of audio recording.It was not onlyatechnological history, oratechnological series of changes, he explains. There was alsoachange in concept of what music was for.From the first melody ever hummed, or the first rhythm ever patted, until the late nineteenth century, music existedasafleeting, ephemeral experience never to be replicated. Memories, with all the malleability we now know them to have, were the sole records of musical events.This concept is incredibly alien to someone with instant access to the millions of songs available on Spotify, Apple Music, Google Play, YouTube, Amazon Prime, SoundCloud, Bandcamp or any other streaming service. Music is inconceivably more available to people of todays world than it was 120 years ago, 50 years ago or even 10 years ago. This has changed the role music plays in society, as well asour personal lives.Enoqualifies the effects technological advancements have on music into two categories: changes of degree and changes of kind. The one with lesser impact,asyou may have guessed, isachange of degree. These are typically changes for the sake of convenience. The move from tube to solid state amplifiers, for example, isachange of degree. Notalot changed.Ifachange of degree is the difference between Texas Hold Em and 7-Card Stud,achange of kind is the difference between poker and buildingahouse of cards. It changes the game completely.The shift from musicasatemporary, irreplicable experience toarecorded one that can berevisitedisachange in kind. It has forever changed the way people think about, make and listen to music. With nearly 40 years between the current date and the delivery ofEnos lecture, many changes of kind have occurred that werent born in time to be covered, but are game-changers nonetheless.Two of the major changes of kindEnocovers are multi-track recording and overdubbing. Multi-track recording allowed, for the first time, parts ofarecording to be mixed without needing to physically change their relative location toamicrophone. You could make the sound of someone brushing their teeth louder thanadrummer. Overdubbing allowed sounds to added after the initial recording had taken place. For the first time, one person could play every instrument onasong.Two big changes of this gravity have occurred in the past few decades. One is the mass availability of home recording equipment and distribution tools. The other is the introduction of our current on-demand culture, where any song is available to listen to at any time. Both of these have changed how creators and listeners alike understand music. They change musics function in our lives.The exclusivity of recorded music for its first century of existence begs the question: How many great songs were never recorded and subsequently forgotten forever? If an artist didnt havearecord deal, there was very little chancethey would have the opportunity to record any of their songs inastudio. It was just too expensive. Landingarecord deal, of course, heavily relied on creating marketable music, but more often than not, innovations in music dont originate in marketable ways.This changed when basic tape recorders and home computers became widely available and affordable to the public. The approval ofarecord executive was no longer necessary to record an album, and the definition ofarecordingstudiowas broadened. Anyone could make an album practically anywhere, creatingadistinct DIY recording ethic.Now services like SoundCloud, Bandcamp and YouTube functionasplatforms for these artists to distribute their music at little or no cost. The means to record practically any combination of sounds,aswellasfind an audience to listen to them, are accessible to anyone witharelatively small amount of money andalittle tech know-how. Many artists are seeing thisasan opportunity to leave major labels for smaller, independent ones, self-releasing their music or crowdfunding studioexpenses.Of course, the very technology that makes all this possible is also responsible for new aesthetic choices,aswell. The digital manipulation of sounds has become ubiquitous. Effects and plug-ins utilized inadigital audio workstation, or DAW, have almost entirely replaced analog recording tricks, speeding up the process of getting the precise sound desired by the producer.The added dimension ofavisual display has also shifted the paradigm of creating music. Much likeEnos description of tape making musicaphysical, manipulatable thing, visual elements of music software give it more ofasense of putting pieces together likeapuzzle, allowing for slight variations to be tried in order to find the right fit.When recording technology became widely adopted in the late nineteenth century, music becameareplicable experience. The same performance could be listened to again and again with no variation. Now, with instant access to practically any existing recording through streaming services, music hosting sites and Internet piracy, the effects of this replicability are infinitely exaggerated.Its no longer necessary to dig through record bins to findasong you havent heard in forever. The song can come blasting out of your speakers within seconds of you starting your search. This, foralot of us, changes the function of music in our lives. While we still put on music we like just for the enjoyment of hearing it, most of the music we consume functionsasfiller or background noise while we work or do another task. If we dont likeacertain song, we skip it. Sometimes we use services like Pandora to choose the music for us.This has led artists to try creative new ways of releasing music in an attempt to draw attention from the blur.Blimps,cryptic numbers stations,airport speakers,brief television ads,surprise releases andlive streaming to movie theatershave all been used to bring attention to artists new albums. Its reached the point where the release and promotion for new releases has become an art form in itself.While these factors dont necessarily directly affect the in-studiocomposition process that Eno discusses, they are linked to the shifts in the way we think about creating and listening to music.Much like the invention of multi-track recording, overdubbing and sound recording in general, the ability to produce and distribute music to be accessed instantly by anyone has greatly altered the entire paradigm of recorded music once again.Trends spread rapidly and new developments are expanded on almost instantly. Just as innovations invirtual reality,marketing,political campaigning,transportation or really any other field have picked up incredible momentum in the ever-connected world, small steps forward in the creation of music have been replaced by frequent leaps.