Spotted this week at TechCrunch Disrupt NYs Startup Alley, was the newly launched social photo-sharing app Rewind. As its name implies, the idea with this app is to give you and your friends a way to look back on your most recently shared photos and posts, which you can do quickly by sliding your finger to scroll through Rewinds timeline feature. But the twist with Rewind is that none of the shares are permanent  instead, everything disappears from the app after 24 hours.According to Rewind co-founder and CEO Anthony Duca, who previously founded and sold several other technology startups, most recently visualization software Bunkspeedin 2013,the appletsusers share as many photos as they want, without feeling like theyrespamming their feeds or being too noisy.In that way, Rewind is almost the complete opposite of something like Instagram, which forces you to slow down and carefully consider which of your many photos is worthy of being edited and shared. Rewind simply encourages you to share them all.Andwith the understanding that the photos are gone after only a day, it also hopes to elicit the same sort of spontaneity that you might find on Snapchat, for example.Rewinds timelines are similar in spirit to Snapchats Stories, except they stick around for a bit longer.Using Rewind is easy enough  you just install the app and add friends. To follow a user, you currently have to enter in their Rewind username, but Duca says that address book integration is being prepped for the apps next release.To capture and share a photo, you swipe up on the camera viewfinder  in fact, Rewind has filed a patent on this particular, unique interaction. You can only postphotos you take within the app, too, so you wont be tempted to edit photos from your Camera Roll prior to sharing.And you can take a series of photos  like the iPhone cameras burst mode  by pressing the button and holding it.Afterward, your friends on Rewind can view your past photos and text posts by scrolling back through your timeline. The timelinealso offers a visualization at the bottom that shows which hours of the day have more photos. You can scroll through the timeline by dragging your finger, so you can move through their sharesas fast or as slow as you please.You can also like your friends photos by favoriting them, but Rewind only shows a like count for the whole day. That addresses one of the limitations to sharing that takes place on Instagram with itsyounger users: because likes are a proxy for popularity, photos they believe wont receive enough likes arent shared, while those that fail to amass a certain number of likes in a period of time are deleted. On Rewind, you have the chance to keep growing your like count throughout the day since,even if one photo is a dud, the following ones may make up for it. (I know, kids these days, right?)The San Diego-based startup has been testing the Rewindapp ahead of its official launch with over 100 high schoolers, and found that itsformat seemed to inspire heavyengagement. Users were opening the app 10 times a day, and sharing 35 photos per day, on average.The app also launched with Apple Watch support, so you can view these rewinds right on the watchs small screen.Rewind, also co-founded by Todd Blanchard, Rodney Rumford, and Sunil Rawal, has $450,000 in seed funding and is afree download on iTunes.