Earlier today at a conference in San Francisco, we sat down with Rich Miner, a serial entrepreneur who may bebest-known for cofounding a company called Android, which was acquired by Google a decade ago and then relegated to the dustbin of history. (Kidding!)Four-and-a halfyears later, Miner joined Google Ventures and he continues to work from Cambridge, Ma.,making investments on behalf of hisnew parent company, Alphabet.We talked with Miner about how that reorganization is impacting Google Ventures, the teams lack of gender diversity, and why Miner is expecting the stylus to become a bigger part of our lives. More from our chat, edited for length, follows:TC: Tosome, Google Ventures, remains a bit of an enigma. For example, with offices in Cambridge, the Bay Area and London, do partners invest pretty exclusively in their own backyards?RM: I live in Boston, so I like to see all the Boston deal flow. But I also sit on the board of several companies in the Bay Area and if its something domain specific to mobile and doesnt happen to be in Boston, Im certainly going to look at that deal.TC: Whats happening with the London team? Therewas a lot of press about it being slow to make investments at first.RM: Google Ventures is very much not a strategic venture fund. Were focused on returns. Tothat point, there was a time where there were investment dollars in Europe but [European startups] trailed behind the U.S. in terms of returns, and weve clearly started to see a shift. You now have enough of a history of successful startups, enough capital, and great hotbeds of innovation, including around Berlin, and London and Stockholm, that we think all the right components are in place.TC: They have separatecapital, too, right? The U.S.-based team has $300 million to invest annually and Europe gets its own$125 million annually? RM: Correct, the European team has the same sort of structure with annual funds and right now, the European fund is a separate fund.TC: With Alphabet becoming this giant parent above Google, do those budgets change? RM: It has very little impact on Google Ventures. Weve been a separate legal entity since we started the fund, so weve been operating in an Alphabet-like mode [since the outset]. So from our standpoint, ifanything, we have more support for the type of operation weve been doing.TC: The makeup of the Google Venturesis almost entirely male. You have just one female investment partner in Europe now that Jessica Verrilli  whod joined your team from Twitter last spring  has returned to Twitter in a more senior role. Is that a concern? RM: Weve been very committed to [creating a more diverse team]. Jess was a great chemistry fit. Id started to work with her on a couple of deals. But I also get it. She got a call from Jack [Dorsey]. A lot has changed at Twitter. The old band is coming together again. I think its a huge endorsement for the leadership there. I had to go through the same thing myself, having been a cofounder of Android and after four-and-a-half years deciding to help start Google Ventures but always having that calling, as Android was still early in its trajectory.But if you look at our recent hires and track records, were both very supportive on our team and also in our portfolio mix in terms of investing in and building teams around diverse teams. The data showsthat the more diverse the teams and [the more difference] in backgrounds and diversity, the better performing the teams.TC: Youve been talking a while about enterprise mobile applications, a theme that seems to be capturing more mindshare. RM: Thereason youre seeing all these SaaS people getting involved now is, historically, theres been a huge amount of value created by SaaS. [But] inall those instances, it really didnt change the workflow for the end user. Wenow have these mobile devices that know where youare,how late you aretoa meeting, and that can quickly help youdo follow-up about that meeting afterward. . but theapps havent changed to accommodate that [except in a] tiny [percentage of cases], including with sales and blueprints on tablets.TC: Whats the holdup? RM: There are couple of issues. I think content creation hasnt been as easy on mobile devices, and I think for mobile devices to be better for enterprise workitmeans quickly being able to use a [stylus]; Apple this week will be launching its first tablet that has pen-based support. Then [you can be]scribbling notes and capturing information quickly into a repository.Youre also starting to see tablets and laptops merge to some extent, where youre seeing the first device coming from Apple with a competent, almost laptop-equivalent keyboard. [Theres also a] Dell Android tablet that also has a beautiful keyboard, and now that I can run Microsoft products on it I can start to be as productive with that device as with a laptop. So I think all these trends will result in more enterprise workers wanting to use their mobile devices.TC: What about the construction worker or hair dresser or health care worker who isnt a traditional enterprise worker? There seems to be an endless numberofnew customers to reach. RM: You mention a litany of verticals and my answer is yes, yes, yes. We believe there will be a handful of multibillion-dollar enterprise companies that start mobile first. But wealso think there will be [smaller but also highly successful] companies that are built attacking verticals.TC: What are you seeing beingmade by cheap phone components, beyond new satellite companies, virtual reality gear and so forth? RM: [Im very excited about] mobile phone hardware becoming inexpensive [because its enabling] innovation around distribution, which is why youre seeing a company like Xiaomi go from zero to tens of billions of dollars in valuation . . . Just like with software, when youre able to launch an app store and take the control of innovating software away from the large behemoths, individuals start iterating at fast rates  to the point that we have millions of applications in app stores. If you can start doing that around hardware, you can see very fast innovation cycles as opposed to the Samsung or Apple or LG, which produce one or two new phones a year.TC: Do you imagine well eventually have numerous players with similar-size market share or will Apple and Samsung merely be replaced by two other names? RM: I think these disruptive cycles will continue for a bit. Xiaomi isnt going anywhere. I think youll see other, similar companies  maybe the Xiaomi of the U.S., which we havent seen pop up. I think youll companies like HTC struggle with how to play in that world. I dont think the dust will settle anytime soon.TC: Uber was Google Ventures biggest investment when you led its Series C in 2013. Is that still yourbiggest investment to date? RM: Its still the largest investment weve made, but we have others on a similarly large scale.TC: Acknowledging that Google Ventures is six years old and you invested in Uber at a sub-$4 billion valuation: Has Google Ventures made money yet for Google? RM: Sure. We have annual funds, several of which have already paid back the committed capital, so I think in terms of measuring Google Ventures against other funds, were very happy with our performance. And Google is quite happy with our returns,[which are]both realized and on paper.[Editors note: Some of GVs exits to date include the sale of Nest Labs to Google, the sale of Parse to Facebook, and Twitters acquisition of Periscope. The unit has also seen some of its portfolio companies go public, including RetailMeNot, which went public in 2013; Hubspot, which went public last year; and OnDeck Capital, which also IPOd last year.]