Topsy, the Twitter and general social media analyticsservice quietly bought by Apple for more than $200 million two years ago, closed its doors today.Thats according to the company itself, which announced the shutdown in what is ironically its first tweet since being bought by the iPhone-maker.We've searched our last tweet. Topsy (@Topsy) December 16, 2015Topsy was a popularchoice for those who analyzed social media backin the day, particularly sinceit was one of handful of services that gained early access to Twitters full data firehose. But, following the acquisition, many users jumped shipto other services in anticipationthat its new owner had other uses for it. That turned out to be correct.We first started hearing rumors of Topsys impending closure a year ago, when the company stopped allowing premium users  those who paid for additional analytics and services beyond the basicoffering  to renew their accounts. Now that all paying customer accounts have expired, it makes sense that the service itself is bowing out.Indeed, a visit to Topsy.com no longer takes you to the services search page. The URL actuallynow redirects to an Apple support page for search within iOS. Thats a little odd since youd expect there to be a notice stating that the service is no longer available or some kind of explanation.But thats in keeping with things in general with Topsy under Apples ownership.It was never exactly clear why the phone-makerbought the social company in the first place. Writing at the time of Apples acquisition, TechCrunchs Matthew Panzarino speculated that the underlying technology could be used to improve search with the App Store, and more:If I had to hazard a guess, this might be related to Apple building out the relevancy engine of its App and iTunes Stores. Adding social signals to the search algorithms of its stores could help to improve the relevance of search results and help Apple surface apps that are hotter and more interesting to users. Tracking app trends across social networks would allow them to fine tune categories and collections of apps, and surface apps that are gaining steam more quickly.Pulling the thread out a bit further, its possible that Apple could even use the data from your Twitter feeds to recommend apps on a more personal basis, rather than generically to everyone. Apple has done little of this kind of personalized recommendation work to this point, but theres always a first time for everything.We reached out to Apple for comment, but did not hear back from the company at the time of writing. Well update this post with any additional information that we receive.