As Twitter tries outbigger thingsto spur growth activity  like changing the order andlength of tweets it is turningaway from others. Twitterhas quietly retired Magic Recs, a strikingly effective bot account thatused to sendyouDMs recommendingviral accounts or Tweets to follow, run by an algorithm that measuredhow many others you knew were following an account or Tweet in quick succession.Twitter confirmed to TechCrunch it hadstopped sendingMagic Recs. It is now channelling recommendations through only one channel  native push notifications on your phone.(And since I enquired, its also made a small update on its notifications help page.)@MagicRecs is no longer regularly sending recommendations through Direct Message. Recommendations that were previously shared via Direct Message are now delivered via push notification, a spokesperson notedin a written statement.Magic Recs first started to appear around June of 2013, and the push notifications  essentially alerts that are not tweets but appear in thenotifications tab on your mobile, activated through your notifications settings  were first activated some months later, in September.Push notifications and Magic Recs coexisted side-by-side for 2.5 years until very recently. (My last one was in February; Sarah Perez tells me her last Magic Rec was in March.) Magic Recs Twitter public account was never very active: itslast Tweet(a reply to someone) was just overa year ago.Magic Recs was the firstandperhaps the best known of Twitters DM-based notifications, but there were others.Another Twitter experiment built on the same premise  Event Parrot, for news alerts  also is no longer sending DMs.The newscomes at a key time for Twitter. This week the company reportedQ1 earningsthat highlighted howthe social media platform continues to face challenges when it comes to attracting users, with user growth virtually flat.At a time when Twitter is looking for catchy things to capture more audience, its ironic thatMagic Recs bot would stop working just asbots were starting to become athing.Doubly ironic is the fact that Magic Recswas a bot that actually worked when somehave flopped.Like many otherswho followed it, I praised Magic Recsfor being uncannily accurate in predicting interesting accounts to follow and tweets to watch. Twitter could have turned it into something that people could even pull for more Recs.Why do I do whatever @MagicRecs tells me? Anil Dash (@anildash) December 1, 2013There is some sense in why Twitter might have wanted to push those recommendations into push notifications, so to speak. You had to follow Magic Recs to get it to work for you, which was probablya barrier to entry for most users and defeated the idea of pushing stuff to less active people. @MagicRecshadjust under 112,000 followers.Push notifications, on the other hand, are open to all mobile users, of which there are now257.3 million (83% of Twitters 310 million monthly active users). And it seems they are turned on by default in iOS. (You can turn these and other notifications off in Settings on the app.)Weirdly, I cant recall seeing any alertsin recent times that fall into the category of recommended push notifications to replace it (yes, Ive checked and I had it turned on). Im not the only one, it seems. Apparently pushrecommendations may come at different rates for different people.