While voice-recognition-powered virtual assistantslike Siri, Cortana, Google Now and Amazons Echo continue to get more useful and reliable on the march to platform-dom, there is a parallelwave of development underway that has captured the public eye, where machine learning, artificial intelligence and natural language processing are getting corralled for more narrowly purposed means  by way of bots.Today, a New York-based startup called X.aiwhich has developed a bot that helps you arrange meetings with other people by way of a virtual assistant (Amy or Andrew)  announced that it has raised $23 million. The Series B funding will be usedto take X.aifrom a closed and free beta to a commercial product, and the startup also plans to hiremore data scientists and other engineers.X.ai is not releasing details of its valuation, but we understand from reliablesources that it is now around $100 million  a decent jump on the$40 million valuation the company had when it announced its Series A of $9 million in January 2015.The funding is being led by TwoSigma Ventures, with other new investors including DCM Ventures and WorkBench Ventures. Also participating in this round were previous backersIA Ventures, Firstmark Capital, Softbank Capital / SBNY, Lerer Hippeau Ventures, Crunchfund (co-founded by TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington), and Pritzker Group Venture Capital.Bots have been in the news of late for reasons good and bad. Microsofts Tay, a chatbot that launched with all positiveintentions to learn how the youths talk today, had to go offline(with hiccups) after some cheeky types started to teach it racist slurs. Quartz turned a lot of heads with anapp that was also based arounda chat bot to serve you news stories.While Tay lived on Twitter and Quartzs news bot is in an iPhone app, X.ai was built around the premise that it should live on the platform that founder and CEO Dennis Mortensen said is the main one used today to arrange in-person and virtual meetings  email.There are no other interfaces available now, but the next likely one will be what Mortensen believesis the next-most-popular medium for making plans  text messaging. Echo, Cortana and the rest may come later, he said. (Indeed, its getting a lot easier to integrate into these platforms, although Siri remains relatively closed off.)In contrast tosome of the rapid pace of added functionality that weve seen for the likes of Amazons Echo, X.ai has been a relatively slow developer. The startup first hit the market in May 2014, when it also announced a seed round, and in the last two years or so it has remained in a closed, invite-only beta.Itsmain  and indeed, only  product today is a person that exists as an email address for Amy or Andrew. When you want to make a plan to speak or meet with someone, you copy in Amy or Andrew. (Interesting side note: the actual humans who work at X.ai have human in their email address, to contrast with amy@x.ai and andrew@x.ai sign of the future?)If its an in-person meeting, that bot will start to suggest places to meet and times to meet. If youve used Amy or Andrew before, they will start to learn about whether you are a Starbucks or Blue Bottle type, or if you prefer knocking one back with your contact at the local pub. Once a meeting is set, it is addedinto whatever calendar you use.Interestingly, while some are clearly trying to establish platforms in this space  AmazonwithAlexa and Echo being perhaps one of the most obvious examples  Mortensen believes there will be an increasing number of strong players that are just doing single services based around AI very well.The way Ithink this will play out is thatyou will have highly specialised and very intelligent vertical AIs, he said, not half-assed at everything but really good at one thing. We want, when you are thinking of things you might want to put on your calendar, that you think of nothing beyond ccing Amy. Of course, there are many more featuresthat can grow out of that, for example Amy starting to suggest meetings rather than just reacting to your summoning her. But even without lots more functionality, the idea of doing one thing really well is clearly something that has resonated with itsinvestors, too. Amy has scheduled more than 1,000 meetings for me in thepast year. Thats a staggering number, and the benefits only compound within large organizations, said Jonathan Lehr, Managing Director at WorkBench, in a statement. Theres a certain magic to Amy that lights people up. Im not sure Ive seen a productivity product outside of Slack with this much potential, that delivers real ROI to the enterprise.X.ai is not disclosing how many users there are on the product today but Mortensen says there are hundreds of thousands with a very long waiting list as well.Today, the product is free, and the plan is to keep a free tier in place as paid tiers get added in. The free tier will likely have the feature of arranging manymeetings, but perhaps no longer unlimited.We dont want to handicap the assistant, he said.The paid tiers will be Dropbox-style, Mortensen told me. That is to say, there will be a certain amount of data that will be given away with a very low barrier to entry on the paidproduct ($10 hypothetically is the price he told me). The pricing will need to cement the fact that this is software, he said.