Rise, a service that connects users with diet coaches, has acquired healthy restaurant food recommendation startup HealthyOut.HealthyOut combs the menus of nearby restaurants to find healthy foods and then givesrecommendations on what is the best option for different kinds of diets and eating habits. It uses machine learning to process restaurants, and is processing 140,000 restaurants around the country. HealthyOut has been downloaded around 730,000 timesand helpsRise provide moreof what they think is necessary to help create a healthier diet in a range of different scenarios, CEO Suneel Gupta said.Rise offers its members a dedicated dieting coach for $50 per month, and said it hit a $1 million revenue run-rate in its first year running. It also offers recipes curated by its coaches for each users preferences and eating styles, and access to a dietician in for decisions about food in real time.Many members are out and about, and want to knowto know what to do, Gupta said. You and your coach now worked on a profile that fits you, and recommend things you stay away from. Your coach will be able to create this perfected profile for you, all you need to do is tap a button and itshows you what menu items are in your area.The terms of the deal were not disclosed.These kinds of acquisitions help a company complete a road map without requiring a significant time investment in building a similar product. It also ensures that startups like Rise stay ahead of the competition, even though its a pretty early stage to make an acquisition (Rise has raised $4.3 million to date). To be sure, there are other fitness tracking applications like MyFitnessPal, but Rises approach is to be more personalized.The whole conversation between the two companies started with a phone call, but perhaps the most important point was when Dan Myers, one of HealthyOuts co-founders, and some of his team came and visited the Rise office. Members of the teams sat in a conference room talking about how to help people become healthier, and one thing led to another, Gupta said.The averageperson whosmotivated is trying four times in a given year [to diet] and failing, Guptasaid. So were really looking at this from a product pointof view, if we begin with that person and begin with their challenge.When you start to feel like the roadmap that you and the company youre talking to has areallytight overlap, thats when you start to feel like hey this could make a lot of sense.We did what a lot of americans do, we went on a diet, Guptasaid. We tried afewdifferent things, we tried South Beach, and nothing really stuck. For us, whatreally helped, we finally had a coach, a registered dietician to hold us accountable.There are other one-on-one diet coachingservices as well  like Weight Watchers  but Rises bet is that with HealthyOut and the rest of its products, the company will offer a much larger suite of tools that will make it the go-to application for diet and nutritional coaching. We did see what they were doing as two sides of the same coin, Gupta said.HealthyOut launched at TechCrunch Disrupt NY 2013and was a finalist in the startup battlefield competition.