Rocket Internet-backed Zen Roomshaslaunched its budget hotel network in Brazil, marking its first foray outside of Asia.The service aggregates a range of hotels to offer its customers rooms at low prices with a set of minimum guarantees, including Wi-Fi, a hot shower, clean sheets and more. Zen Rooms claimsto vetall the hotels on its service and, where needed, upgrade their facilitiesto satisfy its standards.This business was first pioneered byOYO Rooms, an Indian startup that hasraised over $125 million from investors like SoftBank.Zen Rooms launched in Novemberto bring themodel to emerging markets where few or no existing competitors are present  as is the case with many Rocket Internet companies. It started out inIndonesia, andin recent months has expanded to Thailand, the Philippines, Singapore and Sri Lanka. Now it is tackling Brazil  via Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro initially  making its way intoan emerging market with similarities to Southeast Asia and a huge 200 million population.Were the first [to bring this accommodation model to Brazil] and thats one of the reasons were going now [earlier than first planned]. Theres a lot of work to be donelocally becausethe local hotel market is a disaster, Zen Rooms co-founderNathan Boublil told TechCrunch.In particular,Boublil cited issues with price transparency and trust that he believes a hotel network approach can help solve. Despite the Olympics looming, it doesnt seem like this is a great time to enter Brazil. Itseconomy is in a state of uncertainty, with unemployment crossing 10 percent and millions of jobs tipped to be lost amid a political crisis. YetBoublil believes that there is opportunity lurking, particularly for products that focus on value and low cost.Financially speaking, Zen Rooms is still running on its undisclosed seed round, six months and four country expansions after launch. Boublil said the company has stayed lean, unlike other Rocket Internet companies in Southeast Asia, but it does plan to raise additional capital soon.While we can expect Rocket Internet to follow-on with more funding  multiple market launches indicate things are progressing as expected  other investors outside of the usual Rocket Internet circles may also participate.Some investors have reached out to us already, including some strategic investors and interested partiesin Indonesia, Boublil admitted.We will be raising money [but]we knew from the get-go that2016 was not going to be a year of money. Weve managed to be pretty lean and have kept an eye on costs, he added, explaining thatthe company has 60 staff right now.Zen Rooms isnt giving us too much information about how its business is performing right now. Citing competitors  such as OYO Rooms, RedDoorz, and TinggalBoublil would only say that it has hundreds of hotels in Asia on its platform.