Were delighted today to announce the next round of speakers for our TechCrunch Disrupt London conference on December 7-8, 2015. The conference will feature an outstanding slate of global startups, influential speakers, guests and more.Oliver Samwer, Co-founder  Rocket Internet
Oliver Samwer is one of the most successful Internet entrepreneurs ever, having built and exited numerous businesses such as Alando (sold to Ebay), Jamster (sold to New Corp), Citydeal (sold to Groupon), supported European fashion giant Zalando, and initiated company builder Rocket Internet amongst others. He was honored with the Young Global Leader designation at the World Economic Forum in Davos and Forbes has recognized him and his brothers among the top 12 global entrepreneurs to watch. Oliver holds a business degree from WHU, Germany.Azmat Yusuf, Founder, Citymapper
A former Googler, Yusuf created Citymapper, the do everything transport app loved by users for its simplicity and innovative features. Citymapper is literally making dumb cities smart, and recently won three Europas awards. Citymapper was one of a handful of apps showcased as part of the unveiling of the Apple Watch. Yusuf previously worked at Google, as well as in the venture capital and equities fields for international banks.Held on December 7 and 8, (and preceded by a weekend Hackathon), Disrupt is one of the most anticipated technology conferences of the year.Well start each day with panels and one-on-one discussions featuring TechCrunch writers and editors, special guest speakers, leading venture capitalists and entrepreneurs addressing the issues of the day. In the afternoon, we host the Startup Battlefield competition which culminates in six finalists taking the stage at the end of the event for a shot at winning the Disrupt Cup, and taking away a 30,000 check.Apply here for the chance to buy 2-for-1 tickets to Disrupt at a discounted rate. These limited tickets will be released soon.You can grab Startup Alley tickets here, where you can showcase your startup.And if you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsors@techcrunch.com.In addition to onstage panel sessions and fireside chats, Disrupt will also feature Startup Battlefield and Startup Alley to London.Startup Battlefield competitors pitch their companies live and onstage to innovators, investors and influencers in the tech community. TechCrunch identifies emerging companies to demo and compete for a prize of 30,000 (42,000) and the coveted Disrupt Cup, won previously by Mint.com, Yammer, Fitbit, and Dropbox, among others.The Startup Battlefield will select around 30 brand new startups to launch on stage in front of a panel of top VCs and other founders, coverage on TechCrunch and the winner gets the 40,000 prize. Startup Alley offers another way for early-stage companies to gain exposure with a setup that encourages both exhibiting and networking, and provides high visibility. Roughly 100 startups comprise Startup Alley with around 50 new companies demoing on Monday and 50 demoing on Tuesday.Additional speakers and agenda details will be announced between now and the show. Stay tuned!