Text messaging apps are on the rise, but according to Jessica Taylor, founder and CEO of Rolltape, Nobody feels like theyre getting closer. People still feel like theyre getting more isolated.Thats the problem shestrying to solve with her new app. Taylor (pictured above with her co-founder and CTO Elisabeth Boonin) suggested that while texts are great for sharing information, theyre less effective at conveying authentic emotion. Sometimes emojis just dont cut it, you know?In her view, phone calls are more effective, but she noticed as she and her friends became busier with their jobs and their families, and as they moved to different time zones, it became harder and harder to find a timewhen they were both free to connect. So Rolltape allows you to send voice messages to your friends, which they can listen to whenever its convenient for them.Before starting Rolltape, Taylor spent nearly eight years at Google. Shes actually not the only Googler to become interested in voice messaging  I wrote about The Cord Project, also started by former Google employees, last year. However, where Cordtried to emulate many elements of texting, Taylors going in the other direction.Its not like an audio text, she said. Its meant to be a little bit longer form.The app currently suggests that users limit their messages to five minutes, and Taylor said messages sent during the beta test averaged between two and three minutes in length. She added that people use the apps to share stories, as well as extended jokes and ideas and theories and all this stuff I miss about talking to my friends from my college days, before life got crazy.The messages can also include images (either your own images or the ones licensed by Rolltape) and music. Taylor compared these features to Instagrams filters. Before Instagram, Everybody had a phone, everybody could take a picture, but [once] they offered these filters, now everybody could create something beautiful. Similarly, shes hoping Rolltape can make it easy for you to create an audio messages thats not just intimate, but also beautiful.For now, Rolltape users can only send messages to their friends (either individual friends or several at once). Taylor said this a key part of making people comfortable with recording personal stories  you might be willing to share those stories with a close friend, but not with the world. At the same time, she said shes open to allowing more broadcast-type sharing in the future.