Beginning life as a Kickstarter campaign back in 2014, the team at Roost found a compelling, low-cost backdoor into the world of smart smoke alarms dominated by the team at Nest.Roel Peeters and James Blackwell, both formerly of Wi-Fi chip maker Ozmo, applied their Wi-Fi know-how to a smart battery, a component thattransforms an existing smoke alarm into a connected device that can be monitored remotely courtesy of your garden variety smartphone.Best of all, the fancy little nine volt did so at the low, low price of $35.Now that the company has its foot in the door, thanks in no small part to distribution through retail chains like Home Depot, Roost is jumping in with both feet. The hardware startup is launching two new smoke detectors that leverage the batterys wireless connectivity and app platform for smartphone-based alerts and check-in.In a conversation with TechCrunch ahead of the announcement, Peeters described the Roost battery as a sort of warm up for the new products. Its that kind of maturity and learning that were now bringing to the market with the smart smoke alarm. Its not exactly a new product introduction, because were taking the lessons learned from that first product and really bringing that all together in the new products.Through that crowdfunded component, he explains, the company was able to create a more well-rounded final product to compete withNest. A lot of connectivity bugs were fixed, said Peeters. Nothing that was jeopardizing the alarm notifications, but things like the daily check-in were not as reliable as they could have been. And weve made tremendous progress there and Im very pleased with where the product is now. The RSA-200 is the baseline model, offering smoke and fire detection at $60. For an additional $20, the RSA-400 adds carbon-monoxide and natural gas detection. Either way, the devices are markedly cheaper than Nests second-gen offering, as Peeters is more than happy to point out.If you look at the price points theyre at, its targeted at the one-percent, the companys CEO explains, somewhat hyperbolically. At Roost weve had a much more democratic focus on making the smart home affordable. We started with a battery you could use to retrofit [an existing smoke alarm], and were following that same thread here.