With the release of the second version of Apples Watch operating system, watchOS 2, apps can be loaded directly onto the device and run natively, instead of being tied to the iPhone.Today, the Runkeeper mobile app, a popular health and fitness tracker with over 45 million worldwide users, has put this new capability to good use: its updated app now lets you ditch your iPhone and track your runusing only the Apple Watch instead.This may seem like a minor update, but in reality its a huge improvement over how the Apple Watch app version of Runkeeper used to work. Runkeeper had previously launched an app for the watch back in April whenthe Watch first launched, but users would still have to strap an iPhone to their arm or keep it in their pocket in order to take advantage of Runkeeper on their wrist.The new app, however, will let you keep track of your heart rate, pace, distance, and duration without needing to carry around the iPhone. Users can also change the type of fitness activity on the Watchs screen selecting from running, walking, cycling and more; view a post-workout summary showing how their run went; as well as pause runs using either an on-screen button available via a swipe to the right, or a Force Touch gesture.Another clever feature in the updated mobile app ispost-run music analytics  that is, the appworks with Spotify, iTunes and Runkeeper DJ to show you which songs you run faster to.However, there is one caveat to using the new Watch app without its iPhone tether  the Apple Watch doesnt have built-in GPS, so the app wont displayamap ofyour run on the Watch apps activity summary screen. For some Runkeeper users, this could be a deal-breaker  after all, one of the iPhone apps better features is the ability to log where you ran, including the elevation, in addition to trackingother metrics like distance, time and pace.We arent currently mapping routes, the current version only includes distance travelled, explainsRunkeeper founder and CEOJason Jacobs. He also notes that the app uses Apples HealthKit to get the fitness data on the Watch.Apple doesnt reveal their formula for tracking this data, but we believe it is through a mix of M8 (motion) and Wi-Fi, he says. It is pretty accurate, and even more so if you pair with phone a few times on runs up front to calibrate. (This is why Runkeeper suggests users run with both devices a handful of times before going Watch-only. )The CEO also says that if a future version of the Apple Watch does include GPS, the app will be ready at that time to add a mapping function. In the meantime, otherfeatures that will arrive soon include support for pace charts, split times, and heart-rate zones.With the update, Runkeeper will no longer work on Apple Watch devices still on watchOS 1, however. So if you want to continue to use Runkeeper on your wrist, youll need to update to the new watchOS 2, then download the new app from the iTunes App Store here.