Salesforce Ventures, the investment arm of the cloudservices giant, has pumpedhalf a billion dollars into over 150 cloud and enterprise startups since 2009. But with most of those investments focused on the U.S., Salesforce Venturesis now getting more serious in the Old World. Today, the group is announcing that has earmarked$100 million to invest specifically inEuropean startups.Of the 150+companies in Salesforce Ventures portfolio today, only17 come from Europe. Considering that proportion, todays newsis a big step aheadfor the business.Its now the right time for us in Europe,John Somorjai, Salesforces EVP of Corporate Development and Salesforce Ventures, said in an interview. Europe is adopting the cloud very rapidly, and the opportunities are immense for us with an enormous pipeline for us to invest in.He cites figures from IDCto back up his belief: the analysts believe that European business investment in cloud-based software and services will grow twelve times faster thanother IT segments, with 33.3 billion put into cloud servicesby2019.Somorjai said that five investments have already been made out of SVs $100 million budget that will be announced in the next couple of months. The sizes of the rounds will vary, he added.Qubit and New Voice Media [two European startups already in Salesforces portfolio] are more advanced and late stage so we will be funding them with larger growth capital in their next rounds, he said. But we will also be doing a lot of Series A and B rounds, too. A typical size for a European funding will be between $1 million and $5 million, he said. It is not clear ifSalesforce Venturesrecent investment in mapping startupCartoDBmay have also come out of this $100 million fund. Nor is it clear if Talkdesk, a $6 million investment announced last week, was also out of the European fund. Talkdesk was originally founded in Portugal but has since moved its headquarters to San Francisco.The European investment businesswill link back to Salesforce Ventures operations in the U.S. run by Somorjai, not unlike other special-interest funds from Salesforce Ventures, such as the $100 million mobile-focused fund it announced last year. Alex Kayyal will be heading up Salesforce Ventures efforts in Europe, based out of London.These are relatively modestbeginnings. Salesforces venture growth there follows in the vein of other big tech giants like Google also ramping up their venture activity in Europe. Google Ventures splashed on to the scene in 2014 with a group of five general partnersdedicated to investments in Europe.One motivation for venture firms coming to Europe, be they corporate or independent, is that the startup scene in this part of the world is relatively smaller and less overheated than that of Silicon Valley. This means potentially less competition from other venture firms for getting involved in the most promising companies, and lower valuations and funding rounds than those that are typical on the West Coast.But thingscould ramp up quickly, too. Similar to other corporate venture funds, SV does not raisemoney from limited partners. Instead, it gets capital directly off Salesforces balance sheet  a way of both growing the wider ecosystem of cloud services for enterprises and potentially making connections with companies for wider corporate dealflow.This also means that while the plan is to invest the $100 million over the next few years, if something interesting came along, Salesforce Ventures has the ability to change up that amount. (In fact, although Somorjai said in aninterview that Salesforce Ventures had invested around $500 million in startups to date, the company has only ever really publicly disclosed investments of around $200 million).Being so closely linked to the bigger business  the head of Salesforce Venturesis also the person who leads and greenlights all of Salesforcesacquisitions doesnt necessarily mean thatSomorjai and his team eye up every investment as a potential acquisition.Somorjai pointed out that of the 35 exits of Salesforce Ventures portfolio companies, the company has acquired only seven to date. M&A is not the driver, its about building the ecosystem, he said.