Leadspace, a company that brings in sales leads and scores them to better help marketers determine which ones to prioritize, said it raised $18 million.Leadspace plugs into marketing software like Marketo and Salesforce, pooling the data from the leads that marketers generate with other publicly available data  such as from social networks. It then gives marketers a way to score those specific leads against othercustomer profiles  and better leads generally mean more revenue.Its automating what a great salesperson does,CEO Doug Bewsher said.Net new [leads] is one thing, but then for example having inbound leads or you go to a conference and get a list of attendees at a conference, to enrich and score that, this is where were seeing huge growth in terms of usage.Leadspace pulls its data from internal databases as well as that publicly-available data. Oneexample of the social networking component is Twitter, which can be useful in a limited number of cases,Bewshersaid. We focus on businesses, so if someone is following a hashtag  theres probably two or three of them  for those people its a good signal.Prior to this round, Leadspace had raised a total of $17 million, bringing its total funding to $35 million. It was founded in 2012, and later brought in Bewsher  previously the CMO at Salesforce and Skype before that  to be the companys CEO. Leadspace lured Bewsher away from Salesforce, who wanted to run a product-driven company, he said.Naturally, coming from Salesforce, Bewsher said that companies like Salesforce and Marketo are absolutely willing to support services like Leadspace that sit on top of those platforms. These companies always have an option to build a business like that, but the advantage of having an open platform means they dont have to build it.If you happen to fill out a form that said, Im Mickey Mouse, assuming weve got your email or something, well enrich it and say, this is the company youre working for, this is who you are and what youre interested in, well use that and push that back into your software. he said. To make really good marketing programs, you need a combo of that score and the underlying data. When those two come together, thats where you see transformational results.