Samsung has just announced their new smartwatch, the Samsung Gear S2. The watch is unique in that it has a round rotating bezel  the thing on the edge of the crystal  in addition to two buttons on the side for home and back. It runs Samsungs Tizen OS, a system used by Samsung in their original Gear models. Samsung, however, isnt announcing compatibility today which suggests some changes in the Gear lineup. The new watch includes NFC for payments and other wireless connectivity and it even includes an e-SIM  a method to make calls and perform some tasks without a phone nearby.Speeds and feeds are fairly standard  360 x 360 resolution, a nice dual core 1.0 GHz processor, 4GB internal memory  but the styling is nice and at 11.4mm thin its quite svelte. No pricing or shipping info right now but well update this post as we hear more.A mere 11.4-millimeter thin, the Samsung Gear S2 brings a light and compact design to your wrist. It offers an incredibly vibrant viewing experience for a smartwatch, thanks to its 1.2-inch circular screen and its 360 x 360 resolution (302 ppi). The applications on the Gear S2 can be viewed with amazing clarity so that users dont miss notification pop-ups. Also, with the latest Tizen OS and an optimized 1-GHz dual core processor, the Samsung Gear S2 can perform tasks easily and efficiently.Users can stay connected with at-a-glance notifications to check calendars, e-mails, news and can even send important texts directly from their wrist. Users can choose the Gear S2 with 3G connectivity which incorporates the first-ever e-SIM with voice capability, to perform quick functions without being closely tethered to their phone.New fitness functions on the Samsung Gear S2 will encourage consumers to stay healthy and active. The 24-hour activity log lets users view daily activity progress and patterns at a glance. It will also send reminder updates to motivate users to stay on track with their fitness goals.For the ultimate convenience, the Samsung Gear S2 comes with NFC technology which will enable mobile payments without the need for a wallet. Samsung is working with a wide selection of partners across different industries to expand the usability of wearables and streamline consumers mobile lives in a variety of ways, including smart car keys, residential room keys, and remote controls to manage a connected home.All of these connected features will be supported by a battery that can last up to 2-3 days, allowing consumers to stay connected without the hassle of constantly having to recharge. To charge, simply place the Samsung Gear S2 on the wireless charging dock right out of the box.