In its quest to sell more gizmos in our smartphone-saturated era, Samsung is pushing deep into the so-called smart home. Earlier today Samsung-owned SmartThings released a new line-up of in-home sensors for its Internet of Things connector hub. Now the mothership has followed up by outinga sleep tracker, called SleepSense, that can also plug into other connecteddevices you might have around your home  such as a smart TV or web-enabledair-con.Why does a sleep sensor need to be able to switch off your TV or tweak your air-con? To help you sleep better, reckonsSamsung. The sensorcan connect to other Samsung smart appliances (such as its smart TVs), or other non-Samsung connected devices if you have a SmartThings hub to do the bridging  so that it can switch things off or on, or dial things up or down, based on whether youre falling asleep or about to wake up.The gizmo will also do what more common or garden sleep trackers do: analyze your sleepquantity and quality, dishing up personalised sleep reports and serving up recommendations on how to improve your sleepvia the companion mobile app.Rather than being worn, as withsome existing sleep trackers, the contactless SleepSense sensor is placed under yourmattress where it can keep tabs on heart and respiratory rates, plus how much the sleeper moves around while they sleep, to power its sleep analytics. Its unclear if it handles multiple sleepers without mixing up their signals.Update:Samsung has now confirmed that one sensor is needed per sleeper in the bed.You also get a sleep score so you can compare whether your 40 winks match up to the average for your age. Samsung says its sleep score is based on seven factors:total sleep time, sleep efficiency, time taken tofall asleep, the number of times you woke up, the number of times you got out of bed, percentage of time in REM (rapid eye movement) sleep, and the percentage of time in deep sleep.On the tips side, Samsung says it worked withHarvard Medical School Professor Dr Christos Mantzoros to create recommendations for boosting sleep quality  with advice apparently covering areas includinglifestyle, nutrition and exercise. (One wonders whether turning off your gadgets several hours before bedtime and reading a (paper) book will be among the apps anti-insomniaadvice )Another feature of SleepSense touted by Samsung is an alarm thatwill gradually wake upthe user, based on analyzing their sleep cycles to identify the best time to wake them (so avoiding a deep sleep phase). Being late for work because your robot decided to let you sleep in may or may not be an excuse that washes with your boss.Samsungalso suggests the sensor can be used by families to keep tabs on elderly relatives who they might be worried about. The app includes a family care option thatdeliversan analysis of the quality of the userssleepto another family member via email.Theres no word on price or market availability and launch dates for the SleepSense as yet.