When Samsung launched its mobile payments service  Samsung Pay  in the U.S. at the end of September, it was missing one major name: Verizon. (Yep, the company that owns AOL, which owns TechCrunch.) Now, the Korean company hasremedied the situation after it released a Google Play app specifically forAmericas largest carrier.The app is compatible with SamsungsGalaxy S6, Galaxy S6 edge, Galaxy S6 edge+ and Galaxy Note5 smartphones. Samsung covered AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, and U.S. Cellular customers on launch, those eligible for Samsung Pay got an over-the-air update to bring the service to their device  they can also download the app if they wish, but its primary purpose is to bring the payments service to Verizons user base, which includes more than 105 million postpaid subscribers.If you are a Verizon user and your phone needs to be updated to work with Samsung Pay, youll be prompted to download the necessary updates during the application installation process. Once installed, you can open Samsung Pay, input your necessary information and instantly start paying directly from your qualified Samsung smartphone, Samsung explained in a blog post.Samsung Pays technology  which it acquiredthrough buying LoopPay for $250 million  isimpressive. It works withmagnetic stripes, as well as EMV and NFC payment terminals, while Apple Pay and Android Pay are limited to NFC. But Samsungs footprint is somewhat morerestrictedgiven the handful of phones that it supports, and itsfewer banking partners.As we wrote back in September:Samsung Pay is launching in partnership with a number of financial partners, including American Express, Visa and MasterCard, as well as Bank of America, Citi and U.S. Bank. But, out of the gate, Android Pay works with those partners as well as Discover and a number of other banks and issuers, including Capital One, Navy Federal Credit Union, PNC, Regions, USAA and Wells Fargo. And rival Apple Pays list of supporting banks is even more extensive than either of these newer Android solutions.That said, in the same way that it expanded to cover Verizon, Samsung will be working to extend its retail partner footprint as the U.S. mobile payment war heats up.