Imagine for a moment that youre a fly on the wall of a Samsung executive board meeting. Its pretty easy to imagine why the Family Hub Refrigerator seemed like a great idea.Someone probably said something about leveraging the smart home and disrupting the kitchen and they were off to the races. And sure, there are certainly pieces of the fancy new smart refrigerator that make a lot of sense.Take the trio of cameras that line the inside of the door, snapping a shot of the fridges contents when itcloses. That, coupled with wireless connectivity, means that Family Hub owners can take a quick look at the contents of the fridge via a mobile app.As someone who regularly forgets about half of my shopping list when confronted by buzzing overhead lights and endless condiment aisles, I would definitely use the feature on a regular basis.There are, however, a few shortcomings withwhat is a strong contender for the fridges best feature  namely, the fact that it doesnt cover the entirety of its interior, instead hitting three shelves and missing the doors completely.But the cameras are really just a side note to the Hubs main event. When the appliance was first unveiled back at CES, the press took to calling it a refrigerator with a tablet built into the door.At a press event in New York City today, the company attempted to do some damage control against the perception, insisting that it is, in fact, a lot more.Samsung repsreally hammered home the three product cornerstones of family, food and entertainment (why the aforementioned boardroom didnt opt for a third F of fun is beyond me).The family bit pertains to the screens functionality as digital refrigerator magnets, i.e. the sharing of pictures, notes and calendars. The food bit is pretty self-explanatory, while the entertainment part pertains to the devices built-in speakers for playing third-party apps like Pandora, as well its ability to mirror video from Samsungs smart TVs.Maybe the Family Hub is, in fact, more than just a refrigerator with a tablet built in, but its hard to look beyond the factthat pretty much everything you can do on the fridge screen you can do on a standard tablet, including the aforementioned entertainment options and the ability to order food from places like Fresh Direct.There are, as we previously noted at the products launch, some notable downsides to combining the two, the big one being that refrigerators are built to have much longer life cycles than tablets, meaning youre stuck with that basic touchscreen functionality for as long as you keep the fridge.There will be updates, of course, both over the air and through a hardwired USB port hidden behind the door. But the operating systemhas some key limitations. Its that old Samsung standby, Tizen, making the current app selectionextremely limited. The company promises to roll out more apps in the future, which users will be asked to opt into or out of, rather than just downloading individually through an app store.Samsung is likely on to something with the addition of connectivity that offerscompelling features like remote monitoring, but the overall execution still feels mostly like a novelty. A novelty that startsat $5,800. But if that all sounds appealing, you can pick one up starting today.