Sean Parker, who changed the music industry as a teenager and then went onto have an early and formative role in Facebook, has long had one frontier that hes wanted to change: American democracy.Now he, Matt Mahan, and a team of engineers and product talentwho have long worked at the intersection of technology and policy, are unveiling Brigade for the first time. Its an app theyve worked on for the last year thats meant to quickly getregular people engaged in articulating and debating political positions.If that sounds like asteep order for the Millennial generation, Brigades team has tried to tamp down expectations. Theyve tried to make the product as simple as possibleas it enters private beta this week, so that its easy for lots of people to pick up.Parker repeatedly stressed that Brigades current form was just a beta, and the company had been actively courting feedback from testers. Thats a big 180 from the flashy, celebrity-laden unveiling of his last stealth startup Airtime. That app promised a social entertainmentrevolution through video chat, but flopped due to a buggy launch demo and a product few found critical to their lives. Now Parkers back with grander ambitions to fix democracy, but a modest approach to getting there.The mission of the company is to empower people in their civic life andto have influence over the direction their society goes inby having them articulate and identify where they stand on issues uncover alignment with friends,get organized into groups of like-minded peopleand ultimately act collectively to shape the policies that affect their lives, said Mahan, who was previously the president and CEO of Causes.Brigade CEO Matt Mahan Interview from Brigade on Vimeo.At its coreare simple stacks of cards that you can agree or disagree with.For example, a trending topic today is Trade With Asia. Youcan flip through a series of cards with statements like Massive international trade agreements hurt small businesses in America or International tradedeals expand opportunitiesfor American goods abroad. If you take a position, youll see a polling chart that shows the percentage ofBrigade userswho are either for or against your side. If youre not sure, you can flip through reasonsthat argue for both sides.Parker said they wanted to pare the experience down to its basics and take out policy makers or parties at the start. (The company stresses that theyll be layering on a lot more features later like the ability to start groups with like-minded friends and analytics for campaign partners as they grow the user base though.)When we were thinking about how to engage people in politics,most people say they dont care about politics. They hate politicians. Congressional approval ratingsareat a historic low. Trust in government is at a historic low. From one point of view, the system is about as broken as it can be, Parker said. But when we interview users, we find that everyonehas an issue they care about or something thatthey want to change in the world.Out of the13,000 users in the private beta a test version of the app that was secretly released several months ago, the average Brigadeuser took90 positions, which the company feels is a really high level of engagement.Over time as you take more positions, youll create a profile that you can compareagainst friends, colleagues and family members. So I can see thepeople in my network that Im most politically aligned with.You can also convert users or friends over to your side.If I decide to switch my position because of a friends reason, they get social credit for that, Mahan said. Thats our highest signal-to-noise ratio.Although Brigade has done some early events with politicians like presidential candidate Rand Paul, the company says its political make-up ranges across the spectrum.A lot of people are progressiveas youd expect for acompany in the Bay Area. But weve got quite a few folks who would self-identify on the other end of the spectrum, said Mahan.The big obstacles for Brigade are proving that publicly stating your political opinions is both something you actually want to do, and that you want to do on its app.Exposing stances on controversial issues can cause points of contentions with friends, family, and colleagues. Many are happy to quietly vote for their beliefs, but might not want to trumpet them in perpetuity online.If users are willing, theyre likely already able to do this elsewhere. Politics enthusiasts frequently take to Twitter, which has the scale to give them a large audience, and easy ways to get the message amplified through retweets. Broad opinion sharing networks like State have failed to capture a significant user base.And while getting on your Brigadesoapbox might be fun occasionally, becoming something users find engaging enough to consistently return to may be difficult. People tend to forget about apps they dont use at least once a week.Parker said that leveraging social networking to create engagement in democracy and government has long been a fairly quixoticproblem for dozens of companies.But if we want to build a platform to disrupt democracy, we cant ignore politics, he said. We need to meet people where they are.He added that Silicon Valleys political identity is really hard to encapsulate. Lots ofpoliticians from both parties often ask him how to engage with the technology industry.There is no unifying principle that animates Silicon Valley engineers and product managers and employees, he said. Then on the other side,there doesnt feel like theres a productive means of interacting with the political system. Washington couldnt be more different in terms of the way it
its designed to work slowly. The Constitution was designed with the intention for the wheels of power to move slowly.What we perceive as dysfunction is a fault correction mechanism, designedto prevent bad things from happening. That tends to contradict the basic values of Silicon Valley in which weraise money, move fast, break things and get things done quickly with the hacker mentality. When you have aWashington political system thats designed to move slowly and aSilicon Valleyculture designed to move quickly, theres going to be tension.