Wiper, a chat application designed to provide users with control over their sent and received messages, recently rolled out support for bitcoin transactions between its users. The tool is simple, allowing individualsto send cryptocurrency to others inside the apps main chat interface.When the company first rolled out bitcoin integration, I tested it and found it a competent way to share bitcoin.But CEOManlio Carrelli told TechCrunch that Wiper was removed from the iOS App Store in China due to violating that app stores policies, and that Apple [had] explained to [the company]by phone that this violation was related to Wiper enabling bitcoin payments.Wiper has seen quick growth in recent months. According to the companys own metrics, the app has received 8 million downloads in the last 90 days. Adownload does not a monthly active user make, but the uptake among users makes it ban more interesting. Last summer, Wiper raised $2.5 million.Wipers core functionality that separates it from other chat apps  a nearly ubiquitous category  is that itallows users to delete their digital correspondence with other users on a case-by-case basis. If you sent me something salacious, say, you could, unilaterally, delete our conversation and thus clear the record. According toCarrelli, when a conversation has been deleted, it is erasedfrom both users phones, along with any temporary record kept on Wiper servers.The company believes that bitcoin will help the underbanked global population that does have access to smartphones. According to Wiper, there are around 2.5 billion people who meet that criteria. In the view ofCarrelli, apps like Wiper are a simple, intuitive way to introduce better financial tools. The CEO went on to note that remittances are an obvious bitcoin use-case.That Wiper was blocked in the Chinese App Store is notable given the growingpopularity of bitcoin in China. According to recent media reports, around 80 percent of bitcoin transactions atcurrent tip are associated with the Chinese yuan. The dollar is the second most popular currency for bitcoin-denominated transactions with traditional currencies.Bitcoin and China have long had a tempestuous relationship. Rumors of increased regulation of bitcoin inside the nation have been known to swing its price. (Ill check back with the company in a few months to see what percentage of its userbase have elected to use bitcoin.)It will be interesting to see how the app approaches the Chinese market in the future, and whether the Chinese government intends a stricter policy towards bitcoin. If the latter is true, expect fireworks in the cyrptocurrency world.FEATURED IMAGE:ALKRUSE24/FLICKR UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE