Editors note:Ralph Dangelmaier is the CEO of BlueSnap.McDonalds, in an act of desperationgood will, has been letting some customers pay for meals with selfies, hugs, high fives and other forms of Lovin. Yes, millennials have such low regard for McDonalds that the brand is one step shy of paying people to eat its food. But this publicity stunt also embodies the weirdness that millennials bring to everything financial.If millennials really could exchange money with a selfie, many of them would do it. Business can kowtow all they want to millennial values and culture in their marketing, but change must take place at checkout, too. Businesses need to adapt their payment experiences to the millennials.The millennials shifting expectations for payments isnt simply a story about new technology  culture is a major factor, too. Its well-documented that millennials hate the banks. Based on a three-year study involving more than 10,000 millennials, Viacom subsidiary Scratch found that banks are at the higher risk of disruption than any other industry.Sixty-eight percent of millennials believe the way we all access money will be totally different in five years, 33 percent dont think theyll need a bank and nearly half are expecting tech startups to overhaul the way banks work. Their mistrust extends to the financial markets. As UBS found in Q1 2014, millennials hold 52 percent of their assets in cash while the average for older generations is 23 percent.The reality of this anti-banking mentality struck home several weeks ago when we celebrated my sons 15thbirthday. I wanted to give him some cash or deposit money in his checking account. He wanted to deposit money in what he calls the Bank of Amazon and the Bank of Apple. For him, loading gift cards online is better than putting cash in a bank account. He doesnt have to drive to a bank; he doesnt want to have to ask for my permission to withdraw money; he wants to spend the money in one click whenever he chooses.A 15-year-old millennial can think like my son does because technology is rebranding the payment ecosystem. When my son hits Buy now with 1-Click on Amazon, he never sees a credit card or bank logo. The McDonalds example, too, illustrates that when businesses change modes of payment, they change the face of our financial system. Customers feel like banks are out of the system, even if thats far from the truth.Consider how digital wallets contribute to this change. Instead of asking, Can I pay by credit card? Do you take American Express?, people are being retrained to ask, Do you take Apple Pay? As consumers stop seeing logos for Visa, MasterCard, Chase and Bank of America during transactions, they talk about them less.The more sophisticated payment technology becomes, the more it seems to cut out awareness of the old establishment. The three Ps  Apple Pay, AliPay and PayPal  are becoming the new face of payments, especially to younger people.So the traditional payment system is being crunched. From one end, millennials want to do away with the banks. From another, tech companies are branding themselves as the facilitators of commerce, erasing the visibility of the card and bank system.As a business, what do you do? What payment strategies will help you attract millennials without alienating other generations?Millennials have attitudes toward payment institutions that seem weird to Gen Xers and Baby Boomers. What is so inconvenient about swiping and signing for a credit card? Why wouldnt you want your money invested in stocks or accumulating interest in a bank? McDonaldss, forget the damn selfie, Ill pay $2 to not deal with that.While businesses do cater to the millennial generations quirks and values, I would argue that most merchants are overlooking millennial attitudes towards payments. Use their weird preferences as your own competitive edge.