U.S. Senator Al Franken today sent another letter to Ubers Travis Kalanick, probing the embattledCEO to provide more information about the companys privacy policies.Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, firstcontacted Kalanick about the car services policies in November. The inquiry came after BuzzFeed reportedthat an Uber executivesuggested the companywould intimidate journalists by using personal information collected by the app against them. The senators initial inquiry was met with a vague response in December, which he has since characterized as disappointing.In todays letter, Franken pushed Kalanick to explain why employees need the God View tool, which allows employees to view Uber trips in real time. This tool came to attention after a BuzzFeed writer reported an Uber executive tracked her ride without her permission.In Ubers last letter to the senator, the company said only employees in certain areas such as fraud prevention have access to this tool. Now Franken is demanding to know what those areas are, how many employees have access to this tool and how Uber decides which employees should access God View.Franken also wants to know more aboutthe companys privacy policy, inquiring what specific reasons the company shares personal identifying information with its parent company and subsidiaries. Today he asked if customers have any ability to control how their data is shared.The senator additionally asked what business reasons the company has to retain information after a customer cancels an account. This particular question may be on the minds of many Uber users who, in the wake of this falls scandals, canceled their accounts on principle.He also pressed the company to provide information about itsprivacy training for its employees and asked if customers are notified if their information is accessed inappropriately.Frankens letter echoes the same concerns about privacyexpressed in his earlier correspondence with Uber and other companies collecting similar data, such as Lyft. As weve seen from itsconstant battles with local laws regulating taxis, Uber isnt a company thatlets the government prevent its growth. While in the past it wasapplaudableas laws and regulations dont keep up with the disruptive pace of a tech startup, when privacy is on the line it becomes a concern.Although many were initially concerned with the companyspractices and stopped using the app in the wake of the BuzzFeed reports, sometimes the immediate need to go somewhere wins out over concern for the companys questionable privacy practices.Its reassuring that even though the news cycle has moved on from the Uber controversy, one senator hasnt. Although a letter to the company might not result in immediate changes, it might remind users to think twice about their privacy before ordering an Uber today.