The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) is a field of science thats been around for over 60 years. While SETI tools and strategies have improved immensely overthat time,we have yet to finddefinitive evidence for intelligent alien life in our universe.TechCrunch spoke with famed astronomer Jill Tarter, to understand how the search has changed over the years and why we havent found intelligent life yet. Tarter, who was the inspiration for Dr. Ellie Arroway in Carl Sagans Contact, has a PhD in astrophysics and has dedicated her career to the SETI field.Jill Tarter / Image courtesy of SETIWhen asked what drew her to SETI Tarter said, I was so impressed by the idea that, after millennia of asking the philosophers what we should believe about whether there was life out there, suddenly in the middle of the 20th century we had the tools  computers and radio telescopes  that would allow us to try to find out what is rather than what someone told us to believe. I thought, this is fabulous.Tarter was recently featured in WeTransfers Creative Class series, which highlights creative influencers in various fields.What makes SETIcreative is that scientists have to decide what exactly theyre looking for. How do you define intelligence?We cant define intelligence and we cant detect it at a distance. So were stuck using a proxy. And that proxy for us has always been technology. Were looking for something that modifies its environment in ways that we could recognize in the vast distances between the stars.  Jill TarterSETI is listening for signs of technology by looking for radio waves and laser signals in the universe that couldnt have been created by natural sources.Over the past 60 years, this search has become more effective. Tarter explains that advanced computing and better telescopes have helped a lot. Perhaps the biggest advancement, however, was the knowledge that planets in the universe are more common than scientists previously thought.When I was a student, there were 9 planets. End of story. We wondered if there were other planets  and now we know. It turns out planets are very common.  Jill TarterAdditionally, scientists can identify which of these planets are the most similar to Earth and may be more likely to host life as we know it. By focusing their efforts on these planets, SETI scientists could have a better chance of finding signs of intelligent life.
Why Havent We Found Life Yet? In spite of todays advanced technology and knowledge of our universe, weve yet to find any other examples of intelligent life in the universe. People often wonder, why havent we found anything yet?Tarter says there are two pieces to this puzzle.The first part to consider is that the universe is vast and we havent been able to look everywhere yet. With our current technologies and the time weve dedicated to SETI, weve only searched an incredibly small portion of the universe for intelligent life.Allen Telescope Array / Image courtesy of SETITarter explained it this way: if you set the search space equal to the size of the Earths oceans, weve only examined one glass of water from those oceans for intelligent life.Weve only looked at one small part of a very large picture.The second reason why we may not have found intelligent life yet is because were stuck with the physics and the technology that we have in the 21st century.We may not have invented the right way to do this yet, Tarter said.On the bright side, our technology is constantly improvingand the search will continue to increase in efficiency. Tarter says that in the near future,SETI scientists will be able to search for intelligent life in pools and lakes worth of the universe.
What Should We Do IfAliens Came To Earth?Stephen Hawking has famously said that a visit from aliens may end up being similar to Christopher Columbus arrival to the Americas.If aliens visit us, the outcome would be much as when Columbus landed in America, which didnt turn out well for the Native Americans.  Stephen HawkingTarter offers a different perspective. On the topic of the potential risks of an extraterrestrial visit, she referred to research done by Harvard psychology professor, Steven Pinker.Pinkers work suggests that humankind is getting kinder and gentler as we evolve. He has noted that Today we may be living in the most peaceable era in our species existence.With this in mind, Tarter notes that perhaps a species can only advance to the point where their technology is significantly advanced if they learn how to behave in a non-aggressive manner. They mayonly be able to become an advanced intelligent species if they come together as a global entity and are stewards of themselves and their planet.But no one can really know, Tarter says. This is all speculation.However, one thing is for sure: if aliens are able to visit our planet, werenot going to have the upper hand.If they showed up on our doorstep, that means they have technologies that are considerably advanced with respect to ours, Tarter said. And because of that, theyre going to be the ones that set the rules.