The ad-blocking warsare stepping up a gear today as mobile network-level ad blocker startup Shine has announced its signed its first European carriers to roll out its tech.Three UK and Three Italyare implementing Shinestechnology, the companiessaid today, paving the way for other brands in the Three Group to follow. Its not clear when exactly either carrierwill launch a consumer ad block service  weve asked and will update this story with any response.In a statement on theShineimplementation, Three UKs CMOTom Malleschitz said: Irrelevant and excessive mobileads annoy customers and affect their overall network experience. We dont believecustomers should have to pay for data usage driven by mobile ads. The industry has to worktogether to give customers mobile ads they want and benefit from.These goals will give customers choice and significantly improve their ad experience.Shines CMO Roi Carthy tells TechCrunch itis now talking to over 60 carriers around the world including others in Europe and in the U.S.  expressing confidence itwill havemore carrier rolloutsto announce in the next six months. (For the record Carthy used to be a TC contributor.)We expect to finish 2016 with hundreds of millions of consumers either opting in or having the opportunity to opt in to Shine, he adds. (For the record, Three UK, the smallest of the UKs mobilenetwork operators, had 8.8 million customers as of August last year.)Details on how exactly the Three implementation will work are thin on the groundat this point, although the carriersaysits three principal goals for deploying Shine are: eliminating data charges for ads for its customers; protecting customerprivacy and security; and swatting excessive,intrusive, unwanted or irrelevant adverts, arguing thatcustomers should be entitled to receive advertising that is relevant and interestingto them, and not to have their data experience in mobile degraded.Itis also saying its objective is not to eliminate mobile advertising entirely, but rather to give customers more control, choice and greater transparency over what they receive.This is in line with nascent ad blocking steps being made by other UKcarriers. Last November, for instance, EE said it was conducting a strategic review of ad blocking. Another UK carrier O2 also said it was actively testing ad blockingtech last fall. Both said they werent looking to eradicate ads but to offer their users more control.However the current proposition from Shine  which claims to be the only company offering network-level mobile ad blocking right now (other options for mobile users includeusinga specific ad blocking browser, for example)  does not include any whitelists for so-called acceptable ads (as the popular desktop era ad blocker AdBlock Plus does), so its difficult to see how its carrier partnerswill initially be doing much more than offeringcustomersthe ability to seefewer ads.At this point Shineis concentrating its efforts on blocking display ads. Carthy saysthis boils down to quashing basic banners, pop-ups, pop unders; akathird party ad content that actively interrupts the mobile browsing experience and, for example, requiresusers to click a tinycross to dismissit.Display advertising is the stuff that everybody sees and hates and is usually not a lot of fun, he argues.Howevernative advertising, in all its snake-oiled forms, currently gets a pass from Shine.Theres a couple of forms of native advertising. Theres native content  like dating tips sponsored by Durex  clearly thats not something were going to be able to touch because its content. But thats an issue between the publisher and the readership whether its clearly stated etc etc. Thats their own business, notesCarthy.The second type is the native product experience  Facebook, Twitter this sort of thing There we dont touch the ads for two reasons. Number one the carriers havent actually asked us to rule that type of advertising. Although they may still not be happy with it being there and impacting the user experience in a negative way, they see more of a holistic product experience and have not asked us to touch it.Secondly we wont remove advertising where we are not confident that we cant provide a proper user experience after weve removed the ad. That is, were not going to give a broken experience instead of an abusive experience.Unlike Shines first carrier partner, Caribbean mobile operatorDigicel, which announced it was deploying the tech last September,European carriers such asThree will be takinganopt in approach to implementing network-level ad blocking for customers. This is down to regional regulatory differences, according to Carthy.So European users will have to choose to switch on ad-blocking. WhereasDigicel customerswere all automatically opted in. (Carthy saysShinehas 14 million users onDigicel  aka the carriersentire customer base. Not one Digicel users hasopted out of ad blocking, he claims.)Shine does not charge carriers for its technology  its carrying the cost of the hardware and operating the serviceitself. Indeed, the company has no explicit business model in place at this point, although it does have investors  itsraised $3.3 million to date so far  so will need to monetize at some point.A point which Carthy concedes in ourinterview. Soit sounds as ifthe future business model for Shinewill inevitably involve offering users some form of opt in to acceptable ads  a la AdBlock Plus  not just its current offering of an opt out of abusive ads, as he terms current gen display ad fodder.That said,Carthy is not giving anyspecifics on what Shines future business model might look like at this stage.Its not necessarily something we are bringing forth right now, he says, discussing the notion of hammering outsome form of acceptable ads in discussion with ad tech folks in future. But we are certainly happy to have conversations on it. To come to an agreement on what is a proper policy is something that requires conversation and time. Its not instantaneous, and as you can imagine it will be contentions. Weve seen how much criticism AdBlock Plus is getting.Were in the consumer protection business and we wont betray consumer trust for monetization. That being said were not philanthropists and we have investors who would like to have money back and we believe that we can monetize a relationship of trust and choice with consumers  thats of a more longer play type of thing for us,he adds.We believe that if consumers trust us to protect them and their advertising experience we can likely find ways where we can make Shine a very successful company.How long will it be before Shine expects to start monetizing its user-base? Im not really sure yet, says Carthy. For us its a long play. For us really the objective is to roll our technology across more and more carriers and opt in hundreds of million of consumers to our service. Thats our objective.Consumers will have every right to stop using us if we betray a promise or if they feel unsure if they can trust us, thats perfectly fair, he adds.Shine is also shy about talking about the specifics ofhow its technology works. Carthy will say its installed in carriers data centers, and he likens its operation to parental control software for blocking certain types of age-inappropriate content.On top of these hardware installationShine works with carriers to offer specific services tailored for their users  focused on itstwin pillars of ad blocking and privacy protection (i.e. ad tracker blocking).The reason I cant go into detail [about thetechnology] is because this is a technology war, he says. Fire-vs-fire. Cat and mouse game with high stakes. Being a cybersecurity firm by origin, we dont divulge our bits & bytes publicly.That said, I can explain the high-level. We use DPI [deep packet inspection] machines with real-time AI algorithms to detect ads (harder than it sounds as there is continued evading and masquerading). We then remove them, and ensure that the web page or app isnt broken.Why should consumers trust a third party company to haveexplicit visibility into their mobile browsing habits? On this point Carthy stresses Shines security credentials. The companys line on its backstory is thatitwas founded to protect consumers from malware. Staying true to our cause, we found ourselves as the strongest line of defence in protecting consumers from AdTech, it writes.Carthy explicitly confirms Shine isnot doing any data harvesting, network data analysis or user tracking itself. Its just doing DPI in order to hunt and kill the ads, he says.Our origin is in cyber security and white hat hacking. Thats where the company comes from. The company was founded to reinvent the antivirus. A few things happened and now were helping consumers protect themselves from adtech. But we are not in the business of abusing consumers, were in the business of protecting them, or helping them protect themselves. So any notion of us abusing data or doing it for any ulterior motive, its not plausible for us.Returning to the ad blocking battlefield, one interestingdevelopment has been the rise in the number of publishersblocking ad blocker users. Carthy couches this as an extremely short-sighted hysterical reaction. But its also a reaction that risks making Shine less attractive to smartphoneusers. Because if people switch on Shine via their carrier and find they cant read their favorite news site, well they may feel moved to switch it off againThese [ad blocker blocking] properties have not embraced the fact that their monetization best practices are outdated, argues Carthy. We are now between two chapters and they need to understand it. One has ended and a new one is beginning, and its where monetization will not outweigh consumer benefit.Any time that ad tech or publishers would like to sit down with Shine and discuss the future, what is in the benefit of consumers, wed be happy to do that, he adds.Another developmentthat might threaten Shines ability to deliver network-level ad blocking from a technical standpoint is of course growing use of encryption, which would block its ability to do DPI toidentify ads.Add to that,there are questions about whether net neutrality rules might not rule out ISPs deploying ad blocking  albeit Three clearly thinks Europes recently formed net neutrality rules arent a blocker to offering an opt-in ad blocking service to its users.Despite all these challenges, Carthysays Shine has been approached by a number ofmedia and adtech companies wanting to have discussions about its technology(but he wont name any names). The nature of the discussions was what is really motivating Shine. And what we have clarified is that number one we are not against advertising, that we are against abusive advertising. And secondly that we will not look the other way  meaning there is no way to pay us off to look the other way.Those were the key items of the conversations and thats been communicated very clearly and also embraced on the other side very clearly. They understand where were coming from. They believe we certainly dont make their life easier but they understand that we do stand behind what were saying.So what might acceptable advertising look like to Shine in the future? Does Carthy have a rough idea of this point? After all, if hes telling publishers they need to wake up and smell the coffee andevolve their business models it might be helpfulto have some practical examples of an alternative monetization strategy for their content for him to point to.Not yet, he says responding to this.But we are more than happy to have those conversations and if we believe that there are parties that are serious and we can come to an agreement that doesnt put consumers at harm then maybe we can figure something out.But of course Shine needs to build its network first  to become big and threatening enough to force ad tech firms to change their ways. And its still a long way away from reaching those target hundreds of millions of users. Its won a battle here, snagging its first European carriers. But the ad blocking wars are justgetting started on mobile. And its by no means clear how the various moves and counter moves will play out.At the moment we are focused solely on bringing the right ad block to consumers and protecting them from digital abuse, adds Carthy, eyes very clearly on growing its ownnetwork prize.