As the technology business becomes more mainstream, tackling morelegacyand non-tech problems, were seeingthetech industrylook for better ways to engage with the communities they are potentially disrupting but alsoshaping in equal measure.Today, to kick off Disrupt NY, we brought Ron Conway and Fred Wilson  two titans of the startup, technology and investment worlds  to the stage to talk about some of the ways this is being done.Conway, the founder ofinvestment firmSV Angel, has made a name for himselfin San Franciscofor leading how technology companies and individuals can get involved. I think its the responsibility of the tech industry to give back, whether its civic or philanthropic efforts, he said. One of the more recent efforts is Circle the Schools, a program that was launched last autumn to help pair employees and companies in the tech industry with schools that they adopt and then offer assistance where its needed, whether its in an obvious area like offering computer science presentations or tutoring, or chaperoning field trips.Programs like theseare definitely useful, but also sit alongside much thornier issues, such as the civic regulatoryhurdles that a lot of tech companies are facing as they grow, whichpotentially threaten their business models.One case in pointare those businesses built on the so-called sharing economy model, where ordinary people and their assets are the basis of goods and services marketplaces.The accommodation startupAirbnb came up as one notable example. While its disrupting the hotel industry with its privatehiringplatform, its also playing an unlikely role as potentially highlighting just how untenable and costly the larger permanent housing issues are in markets like San Francisco and New York.Right now the company could be facing caps on how many nights its hosts can accept for a specific property, a state of affairsthat both Conway and Wilson thought was misguided.The notion that Airbnbis part of the problem is completely false, Conway noted. Its just a part of the argument from peoplewho dont understand the sharing economy.He also took issue with the proposal of capping the numbers of days that a host can let out a room or residence. I just think its a false ceiling. Why should the government be involved in that?But one area where the pair disagreed was on the subject of data. Airbnb and others may be required to hand over more data on how their services are used, as part of the gradual regulating of their businesses.Where Conway was unequivocal  Private companies should not be forced to hand over data about their users, he said. Wilson was a lot more nuanced.On the other hand, if they did hand over the data they could resolve a lot of concerns, Wilsoncountered. Companies could use data to make clear that the fears are unfounded. I would encourage companies to share data as much as possible. The idea here is that the more a company can disclose anonymized, aggregate data to make a specific case, the more they can argue for their businesses.In other topics, it looks like the 1% pledge model that was pioneeredfirst by Salesforce in San Francisco is now making its way to New York. Teaming up with New York anti poverty organization Robin Hood, the idea here is for businesses to commit 1 percent of a companys equity, volunteer time and potentially 1 percent of its product to the city its operating or based in. Pioneered first by Salesforce, others that have adopted this include Google and Yelp.More on that here.Wilson added that this doesnt just need to be leviathan unicorn startups taking up this idea.Calling out the attorneys who service startups, he said they should be incorporating this directly into a companys foundation documents because it would make it easy and locked in from the start. If founderscould add this without any cost they would do that, he said. This is a call out to the legal community.Being Fred Wilson, healso threw a possible startup idea out there for anyone in search of a new area to tackle. Itsimportant that each city creates a volunteer system so that people who want to volunteerknow what theopportunity is, he said. They dont know where they can use their skills. There are nogood systems to match people with the nonprofits out there.