Shryne is an app for storing memories. Its not a diary or a full backup; it allows you to preserveall of your online communications with your specific friends/family/lovers, from the apps that you most likely communicate with them the most over. Right now you can save texts,Facebook messages, emails, Facebook photos, camera roll photos and Instagram pics on the app, which is iOS-only at this point.The app kind of seems destined to be something that boyfriends/girlfriends use to upload content of their significant others to save forever and ever.Aldo Cherdabayev, Shrynes founder told me that while recording relationships definitely served as a gateway to the app for many, people quickly learnhow to use the app, see the benefits, see the features and then add more stuff in.This app is inherently about archiving, so naturally patience is kind of a virtue when it comes to navigating uploads on it.The accompanying Mac app helps make up for some of the limitations of the mobile app. Namely the inability to download texts or Facebook messages. Even with the desktop app it takes quite a few steps, but its almost a relief that it does because itd be a lot more worrisome if downloading an entire text history werea one-click process.That brings us to security, which is definitely a major concern when youre storing the relationships in the cloudthat are most dear and private to you.We dont look at anyones data, obviously. Its all encrypted so its designed as a safety deposit box, said Cherdabayev. Were never going to sell user data.Cherdabayev further said that since the company is based inDublin, Ireland, itsunder more legal constraints in regards to user data than they would be if they were U.S. based.Security concerns aside, the app offers some cool analytic features new to this 2.0 version that are actually pretty interesting to check out, assuming you add more than one person into your library, which might be a lot to assume given how much time it takes. Once you do, however, youre presented with a social timeline that charts your communications and can give you insights into your friendships and their timings.The app has free and paid tiers, the difference being free users are able to upload just 10 profiles to the app, which is frankly a lot, especially if youre just uploading past flames, but maybe its not for you. Hey, Im not judging. Paid tiersoffering varying levels of storage cost between $10 and $20 per year so nothing too pricey.This is definitely an app for people who are more organized than I am, but there certainly are those people in my generation and this app will give them all of the categorization tools they desire to preserve their friendships in zeroes and ones.