As Uber continues to extend is well-funded tentacles into ever-more categories of transportation, a startup focusing on children and elderly people has raised some money of its own to compete. Shuddle, a car service and appfounded one of the co-founders ofSidecar and aiming its service on minors and seniors, is today announcing a Series A round of $9.6 million led by RRE Ventures.Existing investors Comcast Ventures, Forerunner Ventures, Accel Partners and angels also chipped in. Thetotal amount raised by Shuddle is now$12 million.CEO and founder Nick Allen (who left Sidecar in 2013) tells me that the funding will be used to expand the companys business both in the Bay Area  its only market since coming out of beta in October 2014  as well as intonew markets.We are at capacity for the service today, he says. We are adding new drivers every week and we have grown five times in ride volume since coming out of beta. He says new cities will be announced in the next couple of months. The service now has some 200 drivers on is books.Shuddle sets itself apart from services like Uber in a couple of differentways: In addition to specialised insurance specifically designed for minor and elderly passengers and drivers that need to drive and accompany them outside of the car (more on that below), Shuddlemakes people go through extra training and two different sets of background and reference checks before they can become drivers on the platform.Right now the vast majority of its 200drivers are only women, he says.And thisin itself makes Shuddle a notable and often welcome alternative.Womenhave been largely excludedas drivers by other services because the experience can be unsafe, he says. They dont know who they are picking up or where they are going. Women are attracted to ourvalue proposition. These drives are in the daytime, you know its someone who isnt threatening. It really is different and women are responding to this.He says that people who are signing up to drive on the Shuddle service include teachers and nannies who are doing this kind of thing anyway so this fits into the routine.On top of this, there are differences in how the service presents itself to customers. To use Shuddle you need to pay a $9 membership fee each month to cover things like driver training and screening. Allen says that the per-ride fee is typically 15% more expensive than UberX to compensate drivers for extra training.And while services like Lyft and Uber have built their credibility on being on-demand, Shuddle typically books for rides between 24 hours and one week in advance.No plans yet to add on-demand into the mix, he says, because of the nature of what Shuddle does, which can include not just collecting passengers, but physically going into schools or other places to sign them in or out. But one thing they are looking at is a carpooling-style service, which is handy considering this is one way that parents today typically work around endless ferrying obligations.All the same, Shuddle competes directly with the likes of Uber to drivekids and elderly people from points A to B  services like Uber and Lyft are already used in this way, and Allen tells me in fact that he came up with the idea for Shuddle when he was still at Sidecar.I saw parents using sidecar in LAfor the purpose of driving their kids around, butwe didnt have the right insurance and the service just wasnt built for that, he says. But I started talking to parents and they really emphasized how much of a pain point this was. Indeed, as a parent myself that has to juggle work and small kids withactivities every day of the week  I can attest to this first hand.Its theextra attention thatattracted the extra investment.Nearly every parent struggles with getting their kid(s) from point A to point B because they often need to be in two places at once. Shuddle solves this problem, said Steve Schlafman, Principal at RRE Ventures, in a statement. RRE Ventures is incredibly excited to partner with Shuddle to bring safe, reliable and trustworthy transportation to millions of families across America. The VC has funded other e-commerce marketplaces aimed at specific verticals before, including Bark & Co.