Indias transportation app future isnt just about Uber and billion-dollar homegrown rival Ola. Thats because Shuttl, an eight-month-old startup that provides air-conditioned minibuses, just raised $20 million fromLightspeed, Sequoia and Uber-investor Times Internet to develop its technology and expand its service.While this Series A funding pales somewhat into insignificance given the vast amounts of money raised by Uber  which dedicated $1 billion solely to its India-based business  and Ola  which recently raised $500 million and has taken more than $1.1 billion from investors to date  it is impressive for a service that only launched in April of this year.Founded byIIT Delhi alumni Amit Singh & IIT Kanpur alum Deepanshu Malviya, the service lets commuters find a route, buy their ticket and take a busvia its iOS, Android and Windows Phone apps.Shuttl is currently active in Delhi, where it offers 50 routes and 500 buses, and handles15,000 rides per day across themetropolitan area. The company said its prices range from around 20-100 INR, or roughly$0.30 to $1.50. To date, it says it has completed 800,000 customer rides.We exist to solve the officecommute problem while positively impacting issues like congestion, pollution and safety, Shuttle co-founder Singh said in a statement. We believe buses are the most spaceefficient way to commute and we have added a technology layer on to them to build what couldbecome a template for smart cities in India and abroad.Singh told TechCrunch in an interview that the first priority is to develop Shuttls tech stack. That means improving route optimization, helping maximize occupancy of buses and more. Making the service efficient is the key to creating a profitable business, Singh explained, pointing out that  unlike Ola, Uber and others  Shuttl doesnt need burn cash by offering deep discounts for consumerssince bus tickets are already lower than taxis and taxi on-demand services.The company also plans to expand its presence in Delhi  a city with a population of more than 10 million  to cover more routes.Its such a huge market, Singh said. Peoplethought [that the expansion of the] Delhi Metro wouldmean bus services would lose customers. But, asthe commute options become better, people tend to start commenting more.Once the company has expanded its coverage of Delhi, it plans to venture into Indias other mega cities, such asBangalore, Mumbai and Hyderabad. But, Singh cautions, that is likely to take from six to 18 months to materialize.This is a business that requires coverage, he added of Shuttls deliberately slow growth plans. The more [bus routes] you have, the quicker the network effects kick in.While it may have been first to the idea, Shuttl isnt alone in pioneering shared, bus transportation in India. Ola announced plans for its own shuttle servicein September, and that went live in Delhi and Bangalore on December 13. (The idea seems to have been imported fromChina, where Ola investorand partner Didi Kuaidi launched a bus service in July.)But Singh declined to get into the specifics of Shuttls services versus Olas. Instead, he said he believes that the biggest challenge is lack of adoption, so more smart shuttle services on the market is good news for all in the industry.With 15-20 million daily rides in [Delhi,]its not the right thing to focus on another company thats doing something similar. Thats a very narrow look at the market. Penetration is zero percent so competition only helps. Butwere the first mover, and we have capital. he commented.Singh was happy to provide coloron Shuttls hiringplans, the third area where the Series Acapitalwill be spent.Right now, the company has a team of around 140, of which nearly 60 are tech or data science-focused staff. Singh intends to double that tech and data team over the next six months and, beyond looking at the talent pool in India, he said Shuttl has reached out to Indians working inoverseas, particularly in the U.S..We are actively looking for people in the Valley who want to come back and make an impact in an industry that is solving problems of congestion and pollution, he said. The social impact in this industry is huge  its a rare opportunity to not just work in a startup environment but [to also] solve huge problems.