SignalFx, a cloud applicationmonitoring company designed to help customers visualize issues and work at Web scale, came out of stealth today revealingtwo previously unannounced funding rounds and launchingtheir product publicly for the first time totaling $28.5 million.The first round was in March 2013 for $8.5 million from Andreessen Horowitz and Ben Horowitz joined their board. The second round was this past January for $20 million led by Charles River Ventures with participation from Andreessen Horowitz.The two founders have first-class Silicon Valley pedigrees with CEOKarthik Rau coming fromDelphix and VMware and CTOPhillip Liu, who spent 4 years working at Facebook as a software architect.It was there that he came up with the idea of a product that would work at web scale (which Facebook required of course), that could monitor billions or even trillions of transactions and surface the ones that mattered most.I worked on the infrastructure team atFacebook, Liu told TechCrunch. Ibuilt a lot of configurationmonitoring tools.Monitoring using traditional tools is no longer useful or viable in a distributed architecture, heexplained. Facebook started by using open source tools for this purpose, but soon found (as it often does), that these tools were not sufficient to work at Facebook scale. Liu helped build some tools while there and some of the insights he gained ledhim to join forces with Rau and start SignalFx in February of 2013.SignalFX is a cloud-based technology that streamsanalytics in real time, giving immediate insight into a problem when it occurs, Rau said. Yes collecting 3 trillion signals a day is important, but you also have to be processing in real time and outputting analytics immediately to identifytrends and anomalies as they occur, he said.Looking back isnt all that useful in a world where you need to be on top of everything, he explained. He likened it to credit card fraud. If afinancial services company figured out fraud was occurring an hour after the credit card was stolen, its really too late. The damage has been done. Its the same in application monitoring. You need to see whats happening in real time.And thats what SignalFX claims is its secret sauce. We built SignalFlow streaming analytics technology to process huge volumes and output results [very quickly]. We have customers processingtens of billions of signals a day, Rau said.Whats more, the customercan use this information as a big data analytics engine to answer questions like which customers are experiencing the highest latency, which are using the application most often and so forth.Rau says the primary competition in this space to-date is open source tools, which Facebook proved couldnt scale (at least three years ago when Liu used them) and companies building their own systems.In case, like me, you think application performance monitoring vendors couldbe competition as well, Rau sees them as a source of data for his tool, another set of information to give developers insight, but not necessarily as a form of competition.