
Rob Levy is the managing director at the Center for Financial Services Innovation.
So, youre cruising down the highway with your latest fare, making money whenever you choose to turn on your engine. But that 1099 economy youre so fond of should come with a warning: Steep Drop-off Ahead.Why? Because with the gig economy comes an entire set of income volatility issues  and if youre not being smart about it, the state of your financial health could be impacted.In todays economy, the old-economy dream of financial stability through gainful employment has simply been thrown out the window:Things arent easy for people with your basic 9-to-5 job, but gig economy workers have even more responsibility to manage their financial health. In short, youre on your own.Thats the bad news. The good news is that the very same technology that is driving the apps and companies of the 1099 economy is also being harnessed to create new tools to manage and improve your own financial health. (Financial health is simply your ability to have a functioning day-to-day financial system that helps you deal with emergencies and pursue your dreams, whatever they may be.)So what should you be doing? Check out these technology innovators that are helpingto support financially healthy habits for 1099ers.The first thing you need to do is figure out where you stand financially. For a long time, the only way to do that without an expensive financial advisor was by checking your credit report, but that only tells a fraction of your financial story. You need the full picture of your financial health, and there are some great new tools to get that.If youre a USAA member, try their financial readiness score. If youve got a KeyBank account, get your financial wellness score through their partnership with HelloWallet. If you dont have one of those, get your free score at FlexScore or Melius (still in private beta), or take the Schwab MoneyWise Financial Fitness Quiz or the SunTrust OnUp Movement quiz (recently featured in their prime-time Super Bowl ad). None of these are perfect, but theyll give you a pretty good idea of where you stand.And while your credit score is only one piece of the puzzle, it cant hurt to also check out your score for free at Credit Karma, Credit Sesame, or Credit.com.Your 1099 employer probably wont offer you a 401k or a savings plan, but almost every bank will let you set up automatic transfers from your checking to savings account. If youre worried that that might leave you in the lurch on a slow week, let computers decide when to save for you.Digit (which is part of our Financial Solutions Lab) will analyze your finances and make small savings for you, automatically over time, that you wont even feel until one day, youve got a nice chunk of changewaiting for you. Dyme, PlentyFi and Qapital also offer different takes on the same idea: Take the thinking out of saving.This might be the toughest part about being a 1099er: Your paycheck changes month to month, but your bills dont. Here again, technology can help solve some of the problems it created. Even will analyze your financial inflows and outflows and figure out what your even paycheck should be (think of it as roughly the average of your overall pay picture). Then you get that amount every week  effectively ironing out uneven cash flow. Have a good week, and Even puts a little extra into savings for you. Have a slow winter full of blizzards, and Even withdraws from your savings automatically, or even gives you a little credit if you need it to get by.Another great tool for handling cashflow is ActiveHours. They track your work hours and will make you small advances on your paycheck for work youve already done but for which you havent been paid. Its a low-risk bet for them, so they make it free for you (they just ask for a tip, instead).I dont have the space here to get into the additional tools youre going toneed for managing your tax burden, figuring out your own healthcare and making sure you have all the insurance you need. But Ill close with this: 1099 employers need financially healthy workers.These unicorns will never grow their mighty horns if their drivers, task rabbits, shoppers and cleaners are stressed out by bill payments and car repairs. They might not offer health insurance, but many of the tools mentioned above could easily be offered through an employer at relatively low cost.Case in point: Uberstarted offering auto leases to some potential drivers who need a car but have less than stellar credit. This brings more drivers to Uber and offers more flexible financing options to their drivers. Theres even talk about an Uber bank account that would allow drivers to get paid daily instead of weekly.So while youre out there on the open road of the gig economy, dont forget to get a financial health tune-up every 5,000 miles or so. You may be on your own, but help is just a tap away.