
Bruno Aziza is the CMO at AtScale.We are now ina new year. Like most people, youll likely start 2016 setting a bunch of resolutions. If you are an entrepreneur, or want to become one, do yourself a favor and make the one resolution that can make 2016 your best year: Stop believing the Silicon Valley lies and those whotell them.Ive been in the tech sector for more than two decades. Ive worked at scrappy startups and global tech companies. Ive read many books on entrepreneurship, from Steve Blank to Peter Thiel. They all have great lessons (see some of them here), but if you read the columns of online Silicon Valley publications or take the soundbites you hear at tech meetups as guidance, beware. There is a lot of sensationalism and oversimplification out there. Many sound great, but most are wrong.Here aremy three favorite misconceptions:Failure is good. Fail often and fail fast. Im sure youve come across this Silicon Valley adage many times. Entrepreneurs are used to encountering failure, mainly because were all trying to do things that havent been done before, faster than it is realistic to achieve them. Thats why some of our successes can be monumental. But thats also why the majority of us fail many times  and get back up as many times asis required to succeed.Butglorifying failure is a mistake. Failure is not good. And its worse when it is you thats failing (sorry Eric Ries). Ive studied and worked with some of the best entrepreneurs in the tech industry and I can tell you that failure is not something they look forward to or celebrate. One of my early investors once told me something I will never forget: Avoid failure at all cost. Study the failure of others, learn from them and beat them.Understand that the road to success is paved with failures. But they dont all have to be yours. And while failures do happen, the number of times you fail is not correlated to the amount of success you might obtain. Thats a myth.While you should embrace the lessons that failures bring, you shouldnt celebrate or invite them. Winning is the name of the game. Failure is part of the process, but its not the goal. So stop telling your team they have to fail to be successful. They most likely will misunderstand the message; belittle the impact that failures have on their success and youll grow a team of experimenters with no purpose.This has been one of my pet peeves for a long time. I must have read every book and watched every video produced on the success of the likes of Steve Jobs and Bill Gates. I read about the best parts of their lives and I read about the worst. I also worked at both Apple and Microsoft, and have attended meetings with Jobs and Gates. Everything people say about their intellect is true: Each was amazingly perceptive, and showed an incredible amount of understanding for whatever concept was brought to them.But the media has played up an untrue connection between successful leaders and their occasionally dysfunctional character and demeanor. Being more like Gates or Jobs doesnt require that you emulate some of the worst behaviors youve read about them. You dont have to be a jerk to be successful. In the words of Netflix CEO Reed Hastings, Do not tolerate brilliant jerks. The cost to teamwork is too high. And, unless youre a one-in-a-million genius like Jobs, if you start out being a jerk, you will likely find yourself failing fast.In his 1995 Stanford University commencement speech, Steve Jobs said: Dont waste your time trying to live someone elses life, its already taken. Dont try to be someone youre not. Worse, dont emulate the worst things youve read about geniuses like Jobs and Gates. It gives tech leaders a bad reputation, and its not necessary.Jobs had great moments  and some terrible ones. If you thinkyou need to be arrogant and disrespectful to be successful, think again. Yes, many great leaders are unreasonable and expect the impossible from their teams. The best leaders, however, understand that being consistent, reliable and human is the best way to build teams that respect, trust and follow them.You might be brilliant. But it doesnt matter how brilliant you are. Your brilliance doesnt give you the right to be a jerk. So,work hard, play hardand be nice.Facebook, Apple, Google, Instagram, Snapchat and Box all have one thing in common: Their founders were in their 20s when they launched. The amount of press youll read about these companies will have you believe that youth is a required ingredient for startup success.If you hang around coffee shops in San Francisco, Palo Alto, Mountain View or even San Mateo, youll notice an overwhelming amount of young entrepreneurs sporting skinny Lucky Brand jeans, typing away on their MacBook Air and doing some growth hacking. This also contributes to the perception that, to be successful, entrepreneurs should start young.That might appear true, but if you look at actual data on this topic, youll find that age is less of a driver to entrepreneurial success than experience, and that the average age of a successful startup founder with more than $1 million in revenues is in fact 39.So, while the connection between youth and entrepreneurial success is a fabulous concept, the reality is that experience often overrides shortcuts or lucky happenstance. Dont get me wrong, I like growth-hacking and looove getting stuff done faster.However, Im not a big fan of the inexperience/brilliance/happenstance theory often attached to the concept of entrepreneurial success. The best entrepreneurs I know earn their success precisely because of their experience. And by experience, I mean, the thing you get when you dont get what you want.