While my curlicued co-worker Josh Constine continues to cover the Meerkats and Free apps of the world,theresafascinating counter-trend of serial entrepreneurs, who havebeensuccessful in the consumerweb, going into extraordinarily difficult and highly-regulated areas like health insurance, education and elder care.As Fortunes Dan Primack wrote the other month  there are two Silicon Valleys that exist. Or co-exist:Silicon Valley is teeming with ill-mannered tech bros whose childhood participation trophies have led them to boast about how their mediocre startups will change the world. Its insufferable. Silicon Valley is also full of sincere geniuses who wake up every day to work hard on solving serious problems that could indeed change the world. Its inspiring.One could argue that Founders Fund, the firm started by Paypal co-founder Peter Thiel, is focusing on the latter. The firmrecently led two $100+ million rounds in Altschool and Oscar.Altschool, founded by Max Ventilla, who previously created social Q-and-A service Aardvark, is trying to build an entirely new approach to K-12 education using personalized learning technologies. Oscar, co-founded by Mario Schlosser andJosh Kushner, who previously co-founded the investment firm Thrive Capital andsocial game maker Vostu, is creating a whole new health insurance company from the ground up.The partner who led both deals,Brian Singerman, talks about why the firm, which once famously lamented the advent of 140-character tweets over flying cars in a widely-circulated essay,is going so deeply into both areas:Why are you leadingthese large $100+ milliondeals in health and education?There are many complex coordination problemsthat we care about a lot. In the past, we did ClimateCorporation and SpaceX.Oscar andAltschoolare both similar in that style.Theyre both extremely complex coordination companies that are in areas that we care a great dealabout  health insurance and childhood education.It is extremely difficult, if not impossible to clone these types of businesses with two guys in a garage. This is notsomething that youcan hack up in a couple months.What made you comfortable withleading these big follow-on rounds, even after you had invested in thembefore?There are two important things that made me totally comfortable with following on.One is that the thesis was shown [referring to Oscar having more than 40,000 customers and Altschool having functioning campuses.]Then there are still nostartup competitors in either space. So now both companies have massive headstarts on any other company tothe pointwhere I think any Silicon Valley company willhave a hard timecatchingup. Sowe are comfortable putting in more money.We dont just do investments incomplex coordination problems just because we care about them.They have tohave the type of execution team that has and already gotten over humps. We didnt invest inAltschooluntil they were already running a school. We invested in Oscar once they had already gottenACA[Affordable Care Act] and regulatory approval.Wouldnt younormally want another firm to come in and validate your investment by leading alater round?We dont care about other firms validatingwhat we do. We are a standalone firm.The way you make moneyin venture capital is by backing the truck in and being correct. Im not looking for validation fromotherVCfirms at all. Im not interested in marking up a portfolio of companies.Im interested in these companies being very large and having impact.If you lookour history with our deals in SpaceX and Palantir  I dont know how many rounds of Palantir we did without anybody else wanting to join. But at some point, there was a turning point. Suddenly lots ofpeople were asking about how to get into Palantir.Its interesting to see second or third-time entrepreneurs like Josh Kushner and Max Ventilla coming in and working on much more complex societal and structural problems, beyond building socialor mobile apps. Do you think thatsatrend?Gosh, I hope so. We wouldnt have done SpaceX if it wasnt Elon Musk. We wouldnt have done Oscarif it wasnt Josh and Mario.It takes a certain type of entrepreneur that has a track record that is provably really, really good to raise capital.I hope its a trend.Whats best advice you have for working with regulators?You have to take a slightly different approach than Uber with what were doing.You cant go in and break stuff on schools.You cant go in and then ask for forgiveness with schools. We take these responsibilities extraordinarily seriously.You have to work really well with regulators. Itsthe same in the insurance space, which is one of the most heavily regulated areas on Earth.I think thats something that we believe in thats contrary to what a lot of Silicon Valley believes.Regulators are not the enemy. There are reasons for the regulations to exist. The best entrepreneurs are the one who can work well with engineers and with regulators. Ittakes a certain skill set to do that.In 5 to 10 years, whatdoyou hope both companies look like?The goal of Altschool is to enable human teachers to run a totally different style of classroom that gets a much better education for all children at a much cheaper price point. We have to start with private schools because thats whatyouhave to do.But long-term, I do hope thatAltschool will be powering many other kinds of private, charter and publicschools.Public education is not free. Taxpayers pay for it, so gettinga better, scalable education at a price pointthat is lower is one of the best goals you can have in society.The goal of Altschool isnot to educate a couple of private school kids. Were fine with this taking a long, long time.And Oscar?We startedwith the goal of actually knowing how to interact with your insurance company and havingitmake sense to you. We want you going to a place whereall of your health-related questions and results are in one space that is actually enjoyable to deal with.I think of Oscaras the point of contact for allhealth care management and it leading to much, much better outcomes at a cheaper price point.When you call these complex coordination problems, what do you mean by that?You have toworkwith both engineers and regulators, and get past community, state and federalregulation. It takes a long time to coordinate and it takes a long time to get it right.I mean, how do you open a school? You have to go through a planning approval process.Or how do you run an insurance company?How do you look at timingin terms of raising these big rounds? Rates are at historic lows, which arguably is attracting different kinds of capital into late-stage markets for privately-held companies.But this may change in the next year.I dont ever try and time a market. I consider myself a goodmicro investor. Iam not a macro investor.Both companies are going to be use the capital to expand, whether thats vertically or horizontally.Its not justawar chest for a rainy day.Peter Thiel, one of the creators of Founders Fund, is a self-professed libertarian. How does that square with working in these highly-regulated areas where government is eithera large-scale provider of these services or tightlyregulates private providers?I cant speak for Peter. But government and regulations are a reality. Both of thesecompanies are playing within the current U.S. system.Separately, you can try and make more sweeping changes, but these companies are not charged with voting on the ACA or shifting to a single-payerhealth care system. Weredoing the best we can within the actual current systems.Also, regardless of whether yourea libertarian or not, we care a huge amount about American society andtheworld. The reasons that were venture capitalists is because we believe that for-profit companies run by amazingentrepreneurs are some of the bestways to makepositive change.You can find entrepreneurs that know how to work within thesystem andseparately, you can work to change the way system works. Ido not think those are completely orthogonal. You haveto have a realistic sense of what youre doing.How will you ultimately evaluate whether both of these companies are outperforming existing systems?At the end of the day, there are going to be tests. Theres the Common Core. Altschooldoes not shy away from the benchmarks.For Altschool, well be looking at the number of kids that we can attract, as well as how the kids are tracking against common benchmarks and how well we can educatethem.For Oscar, wed look at patient outcomes and expansion. In both cases, were doing quality first and then quantity.You have to have really good metrics to track quality first, and then quantity is easier later.Altschool doesnt track metrics on ethnicity or race.But the black-white achievement gap, for example, is one of the morestudied and debated issuesin American K-12 education. Why wouldyou approach it this way?Theres no world in which Altschool will shy away from any certain population. Altschoolwants to be a big deal. That being said, youve got to start in a certain place and then expand all over.I think itwill be extremely beneficial for all populations eventually. Its absolutely not the goal to be for one population.Im a libertarian, but my biggest issue withearly childhood education is that youwant to have people to be as equal as possible when they start off. Weve got to get a more level-playing field. Thats extremely important for me and extremelyimportant for all libertarians.A similar question about Oscar.Suppose theyre attracting a younger, healthier demographic in their 20s and 30s. But the ACA caps profitability in certain ways so that insurers dont go for the cheapest and mostlucrative demographics.Thats right.Part of the ACA is designed to smoothout the curvebetween different types of customers and different insurers. Even though Oscar has attracted younger members, theyreplaying within the system.One thing thats also interesting about both companies is that they are verticalized systems.An issue with manyeducation and health tech companies is that distributing the product requires somethinglikeenterprise sales, because you have todo deals with large insurers or big urban public school districts. But Oscar is its own health care insurer. And Altschool is its own schooling system.The iteration loop is tighter, like if you look at Kaiser Permanente, its more vertically integrated. If you have a tighter system, you can do a lot more. You can control the parts that go into a company. If you look at SpaceX, they werent as reliant on outsourcing.I love companieswhere the entrepreneur figures out efficiencies from the whole of the system.What are the biggest regulatory risks to both companies?With Altschool, theyre trying to to use the urban landscape as part of the school. We have touse facilities that the city already provides in parks and public space. With Oscar, all 50 states have very different regulationsfrom each other. Weve got to go through all 50 of them. Its not a federal thing, so its pretty tricky.If you were to look for another company like these in a different area, wherewouldthatbe?Well think through any of thelargest problems affecting the country. Were tackling healthcare. Were tackling making humanity multi-planetary. Were tackling agriculture. We would certainly look if someone had an interesting solution on energy.Altschool is a B-corp, rather than a conventional for-profit company. About half of its most recent round also came from philanthropic sources.Did that affect the way you invest in them at all?No, I think its awesome. Ithink its fantastic. It matches what were investing in. Wereinvesting in these things because were capitalists sand we think that the things that are going to have the largestimpacts long-term are for-profit companies that are sustainable over long periods of time.But at the same time, you often have to make decisions whereyoure not maximizing the bottom line in the short-term. If being a B-corp allows you to do that, thats great.