Slack was being cheeky when yesterday it said voice chat would start testing very, very soon. Today the new Calls feature starting rolling out on Slack for desktop and on the Chrome browser.It lets you start a private Slack Call or launch a conference call in a channel that anyone can join with a click. And in keeping with Slacks lighthearted style, once youre chatting, you can send visual emoji reactions that appear overlaid on your profile picture to others on the call.Slack confirms to me that the feature is currently rolled out to less than 50% of users. Team admins can check if its available to them and turn it on here.Slack already offered integrations with voice calling apps like Skype, Google Hangouts, Zoom, and Bluejeans, but those required a separate installation and were quite clunky by comparison. Slack Calls just need to be enabled by your teams admin, are super easy to use, and blend naturally into the Slack experience.Slack says that video chat is also in the works, which it first announced last year after acquiring Screenhero. But now its on the official roadmap, though the company plans to get voice chat rolled out on all devices first.First, youll have to download the latest version of Slack for desktop and make sure your teams admin has enabled Calls in the Team Settings. Youll then see a phone icon at the top of your one-on-one threads and channels.Tap the phone icon and a Slack Call pings your private message partner with a pop-up windowbeckoning them to answer.Once youre in a call, you can change your microphone settings (unlike Skype which makes you set that before a call) or add more people to the call.Slack didnt bring all its emoji along, but the Smiley-face button reveals a few you can tap to silently let Call partners know how you feel. The emoji pop up on top of your profile picture in the corner. Its like a visual nod over the phone. They say something you agree with, and you hit the heart or smile so they know without interrupting them.On channels, hitting the Call button prompts you name the call and then wait for others to join.Your channel partners will see a button to join in the text thread so anyone available can quickly jump on.And just for giggles, tapping the main avatar in your call causes it to pulse satisfyingly.When I spoke to Slacks VP Of Product April Underwood yesterday, she told me the use case for Slack Calls was that If Im DMing someone in Slack and we want to switch to have a quick voice conversation, it addresses that problem.Now shes issued this statement, sayingOur mission at Slack is to make peoples working lives simpler, morepleasant and more productive. Voice calls are a valuable form of teamcommunication, and so a natural fit for Slack, and why were alreadyseeing great usage of third-party apps that offer calling options.For customers who already use services like Skype, Google Hangouts,Zoom, and Bluejeans, its easy to initiate a variety of callingfeatures from within Slack, but for customers who need a simplesolution for voice calls with members of their Slack team, this newfeature will make Slack more useful. Were looking forward hearing
feedback from customers testing the beta, and are eager to get thisfeature in the hands of customers in our Slack mobile apps soon.Platform thinking is in our DNA, and were actively exploring ways tointegrate third party services, like calls, more deeply into ourproduct.Apparently voice calling was one of the most heavily requested options from Slacks 2.3 million daily active users and 570,000 paid subscribers. Yesterdays customer conference and the release of hotly anticipated features could help boost Slacks momentum as it reportedly looks to raise at least another $150 million.By becoming more of a full-service communication suite rather than just a text chat tool, Slack might be able to convince more companies to pay for it  especially because businesses might already be spending money to have voice chat. Slack Calls could threaten Skype and Google Hangouts, which increasingly feel inconvenient.