Erica Baker, a build and release engineer at Slack, is making waves in tech right now. Shes theex-Google employee who released employee salary dataat Google. Shes also the one behind #RealDiversityNumbers, a Twitter movement to get companiesreporting numbers around retention, number of lawsuits settled out of court, etc. And just this week, Re/Codes Kara Swisher told C Magazinethat Bakers a woman to watch.And now, from her latest, thoughtful post on Medium, #FFFFFF Diversity:Marc and Parkers words echoed the message many Silicon Valley companies have been saying with money: Get in line people of color. Wait for (white) women to get theirs, then well get to you.Baker was referring to the chat Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff and Co-Founder Parker Harris had about diversity with Swisher at the companys annual Dreamforce conference in San Francisco last month. The panel was originally calledBuilding an Inclusive Workplace, but was renamed to Advancing Women in the Workplace after the conversation ended with a sharp focus on women. In case you missed it, Harris said, right now, Im focused on women and Benioff said, that while overall diversity is important, Salesforces major focus right now is the womens issue.Bakersadvice to Salesforce: Stop acting like you dont have resources, Baker told TechCrunch. To say that We cant focus on anything else but women right now is such a cop-out.Despite what Harris and Benioff said at Dreamforce, Salesforce says that its committed to addressing other forms of diversity,such asethnic diversity.There has been a big spotlight on women and issues like equal pay, and we have focused more on women in our diversity efforts, but not exclusively, Salesforce EVP of Global Employee Success Cindy Robbins said in a statement to TechCrunch. Salesforce has many other initiatives to create a more diverse workforce across the board. We are still learning and committed to addressing gender and ethnic diversity.Yes, Salesforce is clearly still learning, as is everyone else. And, even though its not the responsibility of black people and people of color to teach white people, Bakeris willing to help. Shedoesnt work in any diversity and inclusion departments at Slack, but shes motivated to keep speaking up about the absence of people of color in tech.If we dont talk about it, if we accept the status quo as is, like, Oh, its ok to just focus on women for our diversity efforts. If we just let that be, then thats all a company is going to do, Baker said. Lets be honest, theyre going to do the bare minimum because its not a thing they want to deal with anyway.Bakermade it a point to tell me that what shes saying is not anything new. Inside of private groups on Facebook and such, black women  myself included  are talking about these issues with each other. The only difference, Baker said, is that shes able to say it loudly.I dont have a concern that if I speak out about stuff that is a little bit controversial, that its going to have a negative effect on my job, Baker said. Thats a privilege that I have. Thats a huge privilege. A lot of people dont have that. Like, if they speak out, theres a likelihood theyll get fired. Its a shitty thing, but its a real thing in their jobs, for other people. Idont have that, so Im going to make use of that privilege. This needs to be talked about, so were going to talk about it. Its going to be a topic  Im going to make it one.Also, if companies really want to know how their diversity efforts are going, they should reach out to black women, Baker said.We are the ones in the people of color group and in the womens group. We are the ones who can see everything. And not just black women, but hispanic women. Women of color. We can see whats going on. We will tell you the truth. Let a woman of color be honest with you about whats going on and youll learn.