Slingbox was one of the firstcompanies to re-envision how consumers thought aboutwatching television by introducing hardware that allowed usersto view theirmedia remotely over the Internet. Today the company, a subsidiary ofEchoStar, is looking to better cater to streaming TV consumers withits latest product, the Slingbox M2.The new device is an iteration on the companys earlier Slingbox M1, but one thats been designed to reflect viewerschanging habits, the company says.The $199 set-top box will appeal the most to those who want an easy way to watch their payTV subscription over the Internet from any device.But in this day and age, Slingbox faces a number of competitors in the new streaming landscape. Currently, the pay TV providers themselves are beginning to roll out their own solutions for this sort of cross-platform viewing activity; TVnetworks offer their own on-demand apps; and a number of television viewers are either augmenting pay TV with streaming services or simply cutting the cord in favor watchingvia Netflix, Amazon and Hulu instead.That sort of makes you wonder where Slingbox still fits in. Perhaps its biggest advantage is that it offers pay TV customers a way to watch sports or other live eventsover the Internet, even when theyre away from home. Unlike TV shows and movies, which are plentiful acrossa variety of services, its far more challenging to find (legal) means of streaming the big game and other notable liveevents like the Academy Awards, for example.Theres also a customer base who still likes their pay TV subscription, of course, even if those dynamics are changing. Recent studies have shown that liveTV nowaccounts for 39 percent of all time spent with TV content, while 28 percent is happening over digital streams.With Slingbox, the idea is to allow those who want access to live, pay TV and DVR content a way to stream it on-demand from anywhere. Its cord stretching, not cord cutting. However, the solution largely exists because the pay TV providers have been missing theboat for so long  and now thats changing.After the initial purchase, Sling Media doesnt charge M2 ownersmonthly subscriptions or other fees, and the service lets viewersstream their content from anywhere in the world, as theres no geo-blocking involved.However, theSlingbox M2is a little pricier than the M1, which was available for $150. Sling Media says the suggested retail price for the M2 is $199.99. (Its availablevia Best Buy, Amazon Marketplace and slingbox.com.)Despite the hardwares price increase, the two boxes arent all that different.The biggest change is that, unlike the Slingbox M1, the new M2 no longer requires users to pay for the Slingplayer app on each device they use  thosedownloads used to cost $15 apiece. Plus,the M2 will allow consumers to shift content from their mobile devices to other TVs by way of Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV or Roku.The company cites a 2014 Ericsson Mobility studywhen explaining why it has moved away from its prior cost-by-device barrier to entry. That report found that todays average household has at least five connected devices. With the M2, Sling Media says consumers can now download the accompanying Slingplayer app to view their home TV content on as many devices as they wish for free.Instead of charing by downloads, Sling Media says the unlimited free app downloads are being supported through integrated ad spots. In practice, that means viewers are asked to watch short pre-roll ads when they load the app andand ads will also appear in the app viewing window. However, no ads will be placed on top of the video itself.This is the first time Slingbox has ever integrated ads into its apps, but notes that customers can opt-out of the ads by paying a flat fee of $15 per account.In order to view home TV content on other devices, usersfirst hook up their Slingbox M2 to their cable or satellite box. With the M2, the company triesmake this initial setup process easier by offering a free live video setup service that helps walk customers through the installation and use of the new hardware and software.Once configured, Slingbox M2 customers are able to watch and control live TV using a smartphone, tablet, Mac or PC, as well as play back and schedule DVR recordings. The M2 also offersWi-Fi connectivity andan Ethernet port for connecting to a users home network, and supports high-def video up to 1080p.Alongside this hardware update, Sling Media says a newSlingplayer mobile appwill be launched later this year for all Slingbox models. The revamped app will include video quality improvements and a gallery viewing mode offering recommendations on iPhone and Android devices, similar to whats available today on iPad. In addition, the app will offerfaster load times for the channel guide and a 20 percent faster connection.