Blockspring, a service that connects to spreadsheets like Excel and Google Spreadsheets to easier import data, said it has raised $3.4 million.Instead of having to write specific code to import and sort data in a spreadsheet, Blockspring has several connections to services like BingSearch that will automatically populate spreadsheets with data.The company plans to release several integrations for tools like Tableau and Slack.Engineershave to do so much more beyond creating the service  they have to build apps and teach [business employees]how to usethem, Blockspring CEO Paul Katsen said.It actually just sits between the developerand everyone else. It lets the developer spend less timetrying todeliver new functionality, and lets thebusinessperson use this as building blocksFor example, a Blockspring user can quickly pull in PDFs from the web and analyze them in a spreadsheet. That would include searching for those articles, downloading each one, and then analyzing them  such as searching for specific words. That data can be manipulated in many ways as there are APIs that are plugged into Blockspring.Imagine any web service out there  all were doing is standardizing each one. Theyre all different and complicated, Blockspring CEO Paul Katsen said. Every single new one you learn, youre like, how do I use this. For Google for example, for their service as well as other APIs, you get all these integrations that make your APIacceptable and consumable by a whole new audience of people. Itsavesthem hundreds of thousands in engineering costs becausethey dont have to build that integration.Katsen was the guy that sat in the middle, he explains, doing consulting work and having a limited engineering background. He was gradually becoming more technical, but he and his two co-founders Jason Tokoph and Donald Pinkus(who were engineers) saw an opportunity to build something that would essentially sit in the middle of the developersand business employees, automatically building useful tools without taking up development time.Its kind of, man I wish i could solve it myself, but I really have no interest in learning how to code problem, he said. Theres so manypeople like that. Theyre not trying to become software engineers; theyre marketers and reporters. Theres HRpeople, recruiters, salespeople, they have tools theyreally love and they have veryspecific problems.Next up for Blockspring, in addition to continuing to add new services like Slack, is building services for companies that plug into internal databases. A larger company may have a massive internal database that it uses to keep track of things like leads, and Blockspring will tap into that and help employees on the business sideaccess that data more easily.Update: Added a clarification that Blockspring supports Bing Search, not Google Search.