Smartwatch pioneer Pebble is laying off 25 percent of its staff amid increased financial concerns. This situation has been coming. Last year, we reported the company was in some trouble and had turned to debt funding and loans, as well as traditional investor cash, in order to stay afloat.Pebble CEOEric Migicovsky told Tech Insider of the layoffs, which TechCrunch has verified with Pebble. Migicovsky also confirmedthat his company had raised $28 million indebt and venture financingover the past eight months, in addition to a second wildly successful $20 million Kickstarter campaign.He blamedamore cautious outlook from VCsfocused on tech asthe primary reason for letting 40 of Pebbles employees go.Weve definitely been careful this year as we plan our products.We got this money, but money is pretty tight these days, he told the publication.Pebbles news comes amidchallenging times for wearable device companies. Fitbit was initially championed as an industry leader after a promisingpublic listing lastyear, but its stock has been battered in 2016.Part of the problem is that smartwatches havent set the market alight. The category was seen as heralding much potential, thanks in a large way to Pebbles sudden arrival, butno company has created a watchthat has truly wowed and won the market. Essentially they are seen as nice-to-have gadgets, which makes selling them to mainstream consumers challenging.Apple has probably come the closest to cracking this conundrum, and it justcut the price of its own smartwatch, whichnow starts at $299 rather than $350, prompting some to suggest that it isnt selling as well as hoped. However,the company has never revealed sales figures and this cut is actually a smart movethats in line with previous Apple product pricing.Competition is pretty fierce these days, and Pebble is rivaledby Apple, Samsung, Motorola, LG and others,but its productssit at the lower end of the scale, ranging from $50 to $299. Pebble was the first to really push the genre,bursting on the scene in 2012 via a (then-record) $10 million crowdfunding campaignon Kickstarter, but with increased numbers ofcompetitors targeting what is still a niche consumer market, business is tough. And, crucially for Pebble, it doesnt have a smartphone unit or other businesses to fall back on to offset the cost of running a smartwatch business. Its other rivals do.