Ignore Snapchat at your own peril. Its a lot more than sexts and ephemeral photos. Todays Chat 2.0 update makes Snapchat a competitor to your phone itself. What started as an app for horny high school kids has blossomed into the most vibrant communication platform on the market.Watch my video rant above to see why Snapchat suddenly got a lot more important, see a demo of the new features, and learn why it wont be disrupted easily.Add me on Snapchat at JoshConstine or scan this QR Snapcode with the apps camera
Snapchat is social media bedrock. Competitors cant dig deeper than its full-screen omni-sharing. It does everything, simply, with as little interface chrome clutter as possible. Thats why its time for everyone to wake up and realize Snapchat isnt going to disappear quickly. In fact, photos that self-destruct in 10 seconds arent even the point of Snapchat anymore.With todays launch of Chat 2.0, Snapchat wants to be your phone. Heres a list of the new features:Social media creates a window through which your friends can watch your life. Yet most social networks werent designed that way, because phones, screen sizes, cameras, and mobile network connections werent good enough to build a crystal-clear portal.With all its text, Twitter is like peering through a crack in a fence. There are lots of cracks next to each other, but none let you see the full story. Facebook is mostly blank space. Its like a tiny jail-cell window surrounded by concrete. Instagram was the closest thing we had. Like a quaint living room window, you can only see the clean and pretty part they want you to see.Snapchat is the floor-to-ceiling window observation deck into someones life. It sees every type of communication humans have invented: video, audio, text, symbols, and drawings. Beyond virtual reality and 360 video  both tough to capture or watch on the go  its difficult to imagine where social media evolves from here.So if youve been holding out or keeping quiet, its time to get serious. Snapchats here to stay.