A new mobile application called Snapsolve, launching today, is offering a way for students to receive help with their homework, just by snappinga photo of the problem at hand. However, unlike automated tools like the clever PhotoMath app, for example, Snapsolve connects students with a tutor who then responds directly with customized answers and explanations.The app is the latest development from a startup called StudyRoom, an online learning platform that first launched at TechCrunch Disrupt back in September. Originally designed for college students, the service aimed to take the concept of student-based study groups online, allowing students to help each other out, including sharing notes and other classroom materials. At the time of its Disrupt launch, StudyRoom becameavailable to 100 schools across the U.S.Today, says co-founder and CEO Emerson Malca, StudyRoomstop universities have between 25 percent to 50 percent of their entire student populations using its platform. Right before finals week in December, the service was seeing between 30 percent and 43 percent weekly actives at these universities, he adds. And, in total, there are now over half a million students usingStudyRoom.A keycomponent to the service  and the companys business model is the peer mentoring option, which lets students offer to tutor others for a flat rate. (Only those who have earned a certain number of reputation points through their work on StudyRoom could qualify to be a tutor, however.)This tutoring program has now been expanded to include any grade level, and is also whats powering the new app, Snapsolve.To use the app, students simply snap a picture of their homework or question with their iPhones camera and hit send, optionally typing in additional information that will help their tutor answer the question. They also assign the question to a topic, which aids in matching their requestwith the right tutor. In around 15 minutes, on average, a tutor will respond with the answer and explanation. Students can then also comment on thisanswer if they need further clarification.The service is available for any grade level or topic, and is priced based on the questions difficulty and response time. Easy questions are free,followed by pricing tiers that range from $1.99 to $4.99, then up to $9.99 for the hardest and most time-consuming questions.Currently, the app is available for iPhoneonly, but plans to develop iPad, Android and OS X versions of Snapsolve are on StudyRooms roadmap, the company says.The app is a free download from iTunes.