Snapcart, an Indonesia-based startup that runs a service offering consumers rewards in exchange for scans of their shopping receipts, has closed$1.675 million in funding just four months after launch.The round  which is described as pre-Series A  is led by new investorsWavemaker Partners and Singapore Press Holdings SPH Media Fund, with participation from existing backersSMDV (Sinar Mas Digital Ventures) and Ardent Capital. The raisecomes as the startup begins to exploreat overseas expansion options in Southeast Asia, a region of more than 600 million people.As we wrote back in September when Snapcart opened its doors to the public, the startups concept is interesting. Its business is two-fold. On one side, it allows consumers to scan their store receipts in exchange for cashback and rewards because everyone likes free stuff.On the otherside of the business, information from receipts is funneled back into Snapcarts data troves where it is compiled and used to provide clients  such as a consulting agencies  with reports and informationabout consumer spending and shopping habits. Thats unique because tracking offline commerce is no easy task. Doorstepping people at home, in-store surveys and other such strategies tend to fall someway short of the mark, particularly when compared to actual sales receipt data.Reynazran Royono, Snapcarts CEO and founder, told TechCrunch in an interview that the company has scaled faster than initially anticipated. (Indeed, this funding round has been wrapped up a few months ahead of schedule.)The amount of data were receiving is humongous, Royono said, disclosing also that Snapcart for Android has clocked 150,000 downloads and counts 85,000 monthly active users in Indonesia. Now we can look into expanding the services that we provide.By that, hemeans that Snapcart will push beyond its initial focus on FMCG goods into other as-yet-undisclosed verticals. The company is exploring support for other types of receipts and evenoptions forstores that do not have the capacity to print receipts  such as small retailers and mom and pop vendors. An iOS app is alsounder development and close to release. With two apps on the market, the aim is to hit one million downloadsby the end of the year, Snapcart disclosed.Beyond tech, Snapcart isinvestigatingregional expansion options, too. It has addedPhilippines-basedMayeth Condicion, a former market research directorat Procter and Gamble, to its team aschief data officer and co-founder.Condicion will be based in Manilla, which will be Snapcartsfirst international expansion and soon home to its data analytics team. Jakarta, Indonesia, will remain its technology hub.In bringing on SPH and Singapore-based Wavemaker as investors,Snapcart hasclearlyshown an ambition to be presentacross the Southeast Asian region, and it said that one other market expansion is planned for this year.Snapcartis looking at raising a Series A by mid-2016 to push those expansion plans and the multi-vertical focus onwards.Royono, who previously worked as a consultant forProcter and Gamble and Boston Consulting, believes that his companys concept is unique in Southeast Asia  Ibotta, backed by $20 million, has a similar model in the U.S.. Beyond technology, he told us thathe feelsthat his teams experience and knowledge of the consulting and market research clients that they serve is tough to replicate.[Snapcart is]being built by professionals who know their stuff. [Copying our]technology is one thing, but gaining access to the network we have is not easily accessible, he explained.