Editors note:Rob Go is a co-founder and partner at seed-stage VC NextView Venturesand writes on thefirms blog, the View from Seed.During conversations with VCs, entrepreneurs will often encounter a few sneaky questions that have nothing to do with their actual businesses today. Many of these are attempts by investors to learn something specific that they dont want to ask directly, and theres usually some kind of hidden meaning behind a given question. Some VCs may just be fishing for more information, but many are looking for specific right answers.Its a funny dance, and while experienced entrepreneurs know whats going on and how to respond, these questions can easily trip up a founder going through the fundraise process for the first time.Below are some examples and suggested responses. Of course, its always best to be honest and authentic, so this is not a proposed script so much as additional context to incorporate into your own thinking.What theyre really asking:Is there a really big business here and is this founder going to grind it out to get there?Another sneaky way to ask this question is something like, Why would you even raise money for this business?This is often a way to understand potential founder-investor alignment.As a founder, its important to remember that you should really only talk to VCs if you believe youre working on a venture-scale business that can produce hundreds of millions of dollars or more in revenue or value. In these cases, the goal should be an outsized exit to another company or an IPO.Obviously, not every company a VC backs accomplishes this (most dont). And of course, thousands of great businesses are built every year without any need for venture capital. But for most VCs to get a return, they need to make sure that every company in which they invest at least has a shot at larger outcomes.They also need to believe that the founders they back are in it to build a great business in the long haul and wont be tempted by smaller-scale exits along the way. These exits might enrich the founding team but leave the VC with a mediocre outcome. And while there are ways to deal with this along the way (e.g. founder liquidity), you shouldnt mention it during an early-stage fundraising process.Answer:I think about this all the time, and I cant seem to find any compelling evidence that suggests that this can not be a large, independent, public company. This was one of the best answers Ive ever heard, which came from Fred Shilmover, the CEO of one of our portfolio companies, InsightSquared.What theyre really asking:How fast do I need to move here as an investor? How much heat is there around this deal? Is this a shopped deal?In this case, the VC is definitely fishing for information. You may not give them any, but it doesnt hurt for them to ask. As a founder, your best bet is to convey real momentum if you can. Just know that the VC will remember what you said if things unfold differently.For example, if you say, I have a couple partner meetings next week and think Ill have a term sheet pretty soon, then youd better have some sort of deal in hand by the end of next week. Otherwise, investors will think that you lied, you misread the situation, and/or those other firms passed. Regardless, youll be on your heels.Answer:We are just starting our process but have had a few meetings and are getting great feedback. Things are moving really fast, so Id like to get some indication of interest within three to four weeks, and then choose the right partner shortly after that.The general advice here is to tell the truth and convey that you have momentum and are confident that some sort of a deal will come together soon. I wouldnt overplay your hand around timing or investor interest, however, until youre very sure that youre getting a term sheet.But after that, use that term sheet as leverage for other conversations. Even if its not from the worlds greatest firm, you can use it as a forcing function to get other VCs to move. But if you dont have at least 90 percent certainty that a term sheet is coming, then I wouldnt be as specific.The suggested answer aboveis similar to the common response Ive heard from Y Combinator companies.Its a good response because it communicates a few things:Investors will make up their own minds about whether they believe your reply here, but its still a reasonably solid baseline response.As an aside:Nevername potential investors unless youre completely convinced theyll give you a ringing endorsement should a given VC call them. If you find yourself being pressed for names, you can just say something noncommittal like, There are only so many investors that are great at X (e.g. early-stage e-commerce), and we are speaking to some of the usual suspects.If the investorreallypresses with no good reason, then they are just being sad and you should move on immediately. The best investors make up their own minds.What theyre really asking:Is this deal realistically in a range that makes sense for me such that I should invest time to learn more after this meeting?VCs use this question and others like it to determine whether the parameters of your round are likely to be something satisfactory to them. Some may have certain biases, while others like my firm NextView have very focused, thesis-based strategies.For instance, an investor could think a pitch is interesting, but upon learning that the round is likely to happen at a $75 million pre-money valuation or higher, theyd rather just walk away. As a VC, time is your main resource aside from capital, so you dont want to burn a bunch of cycles on evaluating an investment if there is realistically no way a deal could get done that would be good for both parties.Answer:I am running a process and want to make sure that whatever valuation we get is fair and consistent with the market. That said,I want this company to be as successful as possible, so I care more about finding the right partner than the highest valuation. I realize that any good investor will have some ownership goals at this stage, and I think there will be a way to make it work for everyone.The real answer is that, regardless of what kind of a deal you want, the market will determine the valuation. As a founder, its more advantageous to you to get people interested andthenwalk the price or round size up than it is to go out with a huge ask and try to back up if you get pushback.How much you raise is sort of code for your valuation expectations. If youre raising $10 million in your Series A, for instance, then its safe to assume youre not going to expect a price of $12 million pre-money. On the other extreme, its also unlikely that an investor would do it at $112 million pre, unless youve totally crushed it. (Almost all VCs want to own close to 20 percent after a Series A.)When I see a $7 million ask, I think to myself, Okay, if existing investors do $2 million, then thats $5 million that the Series A investor would put in. That would mean that the valuation needs to be $25 million post-money at most, so $15-$18 million pre is somewhere in the ballpark of this founders expectations.There are certainly other tricky questions that entrepreneurs will face, but hopefully this list can help start a healthy dialogue around this idea. Ultimately, the North Star to guide you through most VC conversations is your need to find the best long-term partner for your business, period.Especially during the seed stage, the goal is to find the true believers. You can optimize your outcome a bit by having the right answers to the questions above,but if you truly prioritize finding the right fit above all else, you wont need to game the system.In the end, you want to find someone who will be aligned with your goals for your company and isnt just investing because of heat, as well as someone who would be willing to pay a price thats fair.