A startup working to bring offline brick-and-mortar consignment shops into the e-commerce age,Snobswap, has raised over a million dollars in seed funding to expand what it describes as its luxury online mall. While today, these mom-and-pop shops would have to set up their own online stores using a platform like Shopify, for example, or perhaps markettheir itemsvia social media, Snobswap helps them get online as well as curate their inventory to find those items thatwill sell best.Investors in the new round includeDingman Angels, NextLevel Managementand other angels,including the founders of simplehuman. Prior investors, including Simplepitch, also participated. (The company had previously raised $700,000 in angel funding.)When we first looked at Snobswap last year, the startup was still experimenting with a peer-to-peer model along with its retailer partnerships. But, explainsco-founder and CEO Elise Whang, they soon realized that focusing on stores was a more scalable service.This model also allows Snobswap to differentiate itself in a market where there are a number of competitors, ranging from those that sell your items for you to smaller eBay-like marketplaces where you sell directly to others on your own.Competitors include names likeThreadflip, ThredUP, The RealReal,Vaunte, Shop-Hers, , Bib + Tuck, Material Wrld, Poshmark, Tradesy,Fashionphile, Luxury Exchange, Portero, and others. Its a lineup thats screaming for consolidation. (And exits, as with the recent sale of Twice to eBay, orWalk In My Closets orCovetiques departure.) But by working with shops to list their items, Snobswap is offering a different type of service from most.For shoppers, however, the result is the same  they have access to secondhand luxury goods at more affordable price points that if buying new. Popular brands on Snobswap include Chanel, Christian Louboutin, Cartier, Louis Vuitton, Cline, Tory Burch, Coach, and Alice & Olivia. And, through a recent partnership with personal loans providerAffirm, shoppers can choose to finance their purchases at checkout. That alone has increased sales by 30 to 40 percent this month, notes Whang.Today, Snobswap features items from closeto 100 shops on its site, and is planning onreaching 200 to 300 over the next 12 months. The market for its expansion is big, however  there are over 25,000 consignments stores in the U.S., 40 percent of which are addressable, based on Snobswaps interest in high-end items. The company has claimed only 1to 2percent of this market today, which Whang characterizes as a huge opportunity for future growth.Nobody is solely focused on brick-and-mortars, as we are. Theyre either like TheRealReals model like an online consignmentboutiquethen theres those like Tradesy, which is p2p. Were in a space thats unique and focusing on providing an online platform for brick-and-mortar boutiques, says Whang.Were confident that our model will create true value for our customers by connecting them to professional sellers  true experts in retail, she adds. And to give these businesses on Main Street a national platform to reach a wider audiencealso provides them long-term business value.The company makes money by charging the shops a 10 percent commission on sales, and other fees including an initiation fee and fees associated with its marketing services. The shops, which come from over 55 cities across20 U.S. states, are also carefully vetted to ensure they know how to authenticate luxury items and have quality customer service.Since Snobswap moved away from the peer-to-peer model, its inventory has grown 13 times, and is now growing at 25 percent month-over-month. Order sizes are also up by around 50 percent, going from $200 to now $325-$450. The site has seen 1.5 million uniques, and repeat business is now accounting for 40 percent to 50 percent of its sales. And while Snobswap isnt detailing revenue specifics, it says that its now growing at 20 percent to 25 percent month-over-month as well.With the additional funds, the company may expand its small, nine-person team in D.C., and will continue to develop its iOS application, which is arriving soon.