The argument seems compelling, the logic inescapable. As hardware doubles its density every 18-24 months, courtesy of Moores Law, and as software eats the world, technology will replace a broad swathe of jobs outrightfrom burger-flippers to diagnosticiansand atomize many others from full-time positions into gigs performed by many fungible workers. Tech, in short, will eat jobs.Oh, it will create new jobs too, obviously. But it seems flagrantly apparent that technology moves faster than society these days, and hence it seems very likely that technology will destroy jobs faster than it creates them. Whats more, those jobs it creates will tend to be in fields that emphasize human creativityie tournament fields with a few winners and many losers.All of which would be a good thingas most jobs are crap jobsexcept that our society is not built for a world in which more and more people are unemployed. Not unless we implement something like a basic income.Thats the argument, at any rate. Its one Ive made repeatedly in this space over the last few years. (Echoing many others, to be clear.) But intellectual honesty compels me to admit: the available evidence does not currently support it at all.If the USA is the canary in our global coal minewhich seems likely, given its high technology and liberal labor lawsthen the workers of the world have little to worry about any time soon. Robots Seem to Be Improving Productivity, Not Costing Jobs, reports the Harvard Business Review. Total nonfarm payroll employment is far above where it was ten years ago:Robots steadfastly refusing to take all the jobs pic.twitter.com/N7FHBPAnZ6 Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 1, 2015Even the age-adjusted employment-to-population ratio has, crucially, recovered almost two-thirds of its Great Recession losses. The trend is obvious. Yes, the tech-eating-jobs argument still seems to hold logical water. Yes, this may be a sharp cyclical rise masking a gradual structural decline. But right now the evidence indicates that tech is eating jobs! is vaporware at best. Opinions are interesting, but evidence is what matters.This evidence is arguably a bad thingno, reallybecause, again, tech eating jobs is an optimistic future  assuming we figure out a new tech-driven socioeconomic structure that shares machine-generated wealth in a decentralized way that still incentivizes productivity and creativity. But its also a good thing, because, realistically, as a society, were not very good at that sort of restructuring. (Cf my favorite Winston Churchill quote.)Really were not even good at understanding the problem. Consider Derek Thompsons long, puzzling piece A World Without Work in The Atlantic. He doesnt seem to get that the point of a basic income is to supplement jobs and tide people over through periods of unemployment, not replace work entirely; and, as Mike Konczal points out, Thompson doesnt really address either the wrenching transition to such a world, or the vicious inequality that it might featurearguably the topics two most important problems.It seems that we face one of five futures:I actually think Option 5, the unknown unknown, is quite likelybut its a moot point. The available evidence, to my surprise, is currently pointing towards Option 3. Which is not what I predicted, and is no bad thing at all.But in ten years time? Or even five years time?No one can say for sure, but it seems to me that we collectively face a variant of Pascals Wager. It seems to me that it would do us a lot of good, and no harm at all, to at least prepare for the possibility of Option 1 and/or Option 2  especially now that we have some breathing room.Thats why Im watching the increasing experimentation with basic incomes around the world with great interest. True, if jobs keep being created faster than technology destroys them, we may not need that at all. But lets not put all our eggs in that basket just yet. Moores Law, and human ingenuity, are relentless and implacable forces.