
Brian Dally is the CEO and co-founder of GROUNDFLOOR, a microlending community for real estate. A recentarticlein The Economist noted thatfintechis arguably the hottest spot in a bubbly funding environment for startups. For the last few years, investors have dumped remarkable amounts of money intofintechstartups. From payments to lending and investing, these smaller companies have caught theattentionof industry incumbents, who also have been pouring money into these new entrants. To many of us, this is not new.With thepassing of new rulesfor Regulation A+ implementing Title IV of the JOBS Act two months ago, people have been quick to describe this new regulation as a game-changer. Others have described the new rules as opening up mini IPOs and democratizing crowdfunding. In a nutshell, theres a lot of hype out there about the industry and how regulation is no longer as much of a barrier as we once thought. More than ever,fintechentrepreneurs are hoping to create the next big success story like we saw with Lending Clubs IPO, Northwestern Mutualsacquisition of LearnVest, or achieving a$5 billion valuation.Theres just one problem with all of this: Its just not that simple. Ifyoubelieve that regulation is no longer an issue forfintech startups,youre on the fast track to the deadpool.Theres a misconception in the market today that it has never been easier forfintechstartups to get started and get to market. Investors are ready to write checks and consumers are ready to jump on board. The reality is that ifyouwantto enterfintech, much less succeed, its going to be a long haul.Recent regulations may make it sound easier for startups to circumvent older laws, but the truth is thatfintechentrepreneurs need to understand and embrace regulation as acritical pillar in building theirstartup.If were really going to disrupt big finance, we need more entrepreneurs who fully understand how to navigate regulatory waters, and how that work will affect theirstartupmore broadly.Chris Dixon describes afullstackapproachas lettingyoubypass industry incumbents. Whilefintechstartups are trying to accomplish exactly this,youcant begin attacking industry incumbents unlessyouunderstand the regulatory landscape and learn how to use regulation to your advantage (or at least manage the risks).In fact, youshouldnt worry about bypassing regulation. Instead,youneed to embrace it as a core function of yourstartup. Treating regulation just like customer acquisition, engineering or recruiting pays big dividends down the line. Think about what your regulation infrastructure should look like. Which strategy and which tactics will helpyousucceed with regulators?For example, ifyouare in the lending space, the typical market structure might look like this:Youhave your marketplace of lenders and investors at the bottom. Above that, in increasing order of difficulty and market breadth,youhave state-level legislators, thenNASAA then the SEC. Each level has its own set of rules andyoumust forge a strategy for howyoumight use regulation to your advantage at every stage of yourstartups expansion and development.The wayyoumanage the process at each stage will have implications for later stages.Youmay need to trade off a suboptimal customer experience or fast growth, for example,to win regulatory approval en route to a better customer experience and faster growth later.Even something as simple as regulation in a specific geography must be carefully considered. For example, whereyouchoose to base yourstartupis one of the most important decisionsyouwill make. There may be state-level laws that are favorable (or damaging) and its up toyouto find those. Uber still faces manyregulatory challengesat a local level in several cities. And one of the many reasons we moved our company from Raleigh to Atlanta was because Georgia-specific regulations were beneficial to us.Fintechentrepreneurs should look for investors who understand their regulatory landscape as well asthey do, if not better. Instead of emphasizing deal volume and pressure to meet the typical industry metrics, assess investors who understand the true metric of success. Regulations may also shift or delay, which may impact the product roadmap and timeline. Partner with investors who understand those risks and can help mitigate them.We dont acknowledge this enough, but sometimes the best startups are built in nontraditional ways through bootstrapping or finding a few strategic angel investors. This actually imposes constraints that help entrepreneurs think differently.The Daily Dot recently raised $10M in new funding, andin the companys letter,CEO Nick White says, VCs need their investments to sell or IPO in a certain time frame to get a return for their own investors. Thats great for certain kinds of companieseven beyond that, I fear that the series A, B, C, D game of unicorn horn-measuring that early stage companies get sucked into is unhealthy.I realize that VC money is pretty cheap right now, but when it comes to building a company in a regulated market, investors who believe in your cause and understand how regulation will affect your business can getyoua lot further than an enormous A round.In todays ecosystem, startups can be engineering-driven to a fault. But infintech, industry expertise is just as valuable, if not more, as engineering talent. In-house regulatory expertise reduces uncertainty and brings clarity to your team when they dont understand whyyouare waiting tobuildcertain features of your platform, or whyyoucant launch just yet. Dependencies on third parties such as law firms and consultants are risky, especially when the going gets tough and frustrations inherent to the process run high.Its also important thatyouwork with regulators, not against them. Weve actively worked with regulators to implement theInvest Georgia Exemption, and that process has proven mutually beneficial for the state as well as our company. Your participation in the process keepsyouahead of competitors who unwisely choose to sit back and wait for a verdict.And that should really underscore the point here. Ifyouhave sufficient regulatory expertise on your founding team,youcan turn these regulations into a competitive advantage.Youmay not be able to shape every single law, andyoumay not like the outcome of every single decision, butyoucan outmaneuver your competitors in an area that affects all aspects of your business.Ifyouwanttobuildafull-stackfintechstartup,yousimply cant do it without regulatory expertise. Your strategy needs to cut across all facets of your business, and your entire team, from founders to engineers, marketers to investors, needs to be on the same page.Ifyoucan do all of that,youll still face regulatory challenges. But those challenges will impact your business far less than they will your competitors.