Ashley Carroll and Arjun Sethi never thought theyd be working as venture capitalists. Yet in the last year, both have landed at Social Capital, a Palo Alto, Ca.-based firm that incubates and invests in companies in healthcare, education, financial services, mobile and enterprise software.Social Capital was also, somewhat famously, created by Chamath Palihapitiya, a straight-shooting former Facebook and AOL executive, whosecofounders include Mamoon Hamid and Ted Maidenberg, former colleagues at USVP, where Hamid started his investing career and Maidenberg continued his. (Maidenbergs first gig as a VC was at Time Warner Ventures in 1999.)Carroll joined the firm last springafter previously working as a product lead at Docusign, Optimizely, and SurveyMonkey. Sethi was the cofounder and CEO of the mobile messaging app MessageMe, which was reportedly acquired by Yahoo for double-digit millions in 2014; he stayedat Yahoo as a senior director or product management until last month.Neither was new to Social Capital when they joined, having served separate stints as EIRs. In fact, during a recent sit-down with both at TechCrunchs offices, Carroll and Sethi who bring Social Capitals investment team to five people  described avery fluid firm where entrepreneurs and investors drop in, hang out, andmove on to other projects,often to return again. Its really a community of entrepreneurs-in-residence, executives-in-residence, engineers-in-residence, all loosely coupled but tightly aligned, saidCarroll.Here are some other ways the firm is a little different from traditional venture firms:Its Growth TeamCarroll said there are now six people, including Jonathan Hsu, aformer head data scientist at Facebook, and Ray Ko, a former head of growth at Facebook, whose sole job it is to help Social Capitals portfolio companies grow their user base. Our growth team isdefinitely a differentiator;I dont know of any firm that has anything like it, said Carroll, noting that among other things, thePh.D.-heavy unitoftenhelps the startups in their universe with marketing spend(as many young companies cant justify throwing many resources at it). Social Capitals growth team also sometimes writes job descriptions for datascientists at particularportfolio companies  peoplewho can then be hired totake over what its growth team has started.No Hard and Fast RulesBoth Sethi and Carroll say that at Social Capital, nothing is codified. When it comes to board seats, for example, a traditional venture firm will usually assign the seat to the partner who brought the company to the firm or was its biggest champion after being pitched.At Social Capital,its expected that different people will have different capacities at any one time, so who is involved with what company is up for periodic discussion. During our annual portfolio review, said Carroll, we have an active discussion around: Does it make sense for you to transition your board seat to so-and-so, because a particular company is moving into this phase?No one is protectiveof their seats, she told us. Theres no emotional attachment.Transparency is Prized, Internally and in Portfolio CompaniesAccording to Sethi and Carroll, the whole firm knows how much cash its portfolio companies have on hand and what theirburn rates are. But Social Capitalalso encourages them to use  and helps them define a so-called North Star metric that shifts their focus away from revenue. Then the firm says it will help portfolio write queries in order to access that data and proactively share it, including so Social Capital can jump in and help if that metric suggests usage is dipping or theres some other kind of trouble up ahead.Its LargelyRun Like a Product Development UnitAs Carroll describes it, what the partners are learning and seeing on a daily basis can be overwhelming, so Social Capital has builtinternal tools so that partners feel less inundated. It uses very lightweight scrum methodologies, for example. (Scrum, a software development term, emphasizes decision-making based onreal-world results. Time is also divided into short work cadences, known as sprints.).Rather than hours-long partner meetings, Social Capitals team also does a daily stand up, where they literallymeet, standing, tofind out if anyone is blocked on anything, to ensure that the firm is on track to meet certain goals, and to sharebest practices, among other things. Theinvesting partnersalso have a quick retrospective meeting at the end of each week to discuss how theycan speed communication, increase transparency, and make sure that anyonewho needs help is getting it.It Looks forTechnologies That Push the World ForwardTrue, every VC will tell you that his or her investments have the potential to be world changing, but Social Capital seems to take this mission more seriously than many, with bets like NeuroTrack,which says its technology can predict the onset of Alzheimers disease three to six years before symptoms occur, andPremise, a company that outsources economic data in order to provide customers like the World Bank with important information like how muchfood aid is reaching its intended destination.Carroll and Sethi manage to make even mobile dataplatform mParticle sound like a world-changing company. We live in a software-driven worldandanything that will make people more productive is a force multiplier, Carroll told us when we asked how the company fit into Social Capitals investing mantra. (Andy Artz, the head of user acquisition at Social Capital, has more aboutwhy Social Capital found the company compelling here.)It Doesnt Leave Entrepreneurs HangingAccording to Sethi, the firm tends to move cautiously but quickly. Entrepreneurs know within one month, tops, whether they are going to get a term sheet from Social Capital. Were evaluating a lot of areas that traditional venture is a little scared of, and we might need to bring in additional research [experts for a particular deal]. But we have a four-week SLA from that first meeting to a term sheet.An SLAmeans a service level agreement, which isusually a provision in a commercial agreement between two companies that ensures one party delivers a service within a certain amount of time, with a certain amount of reliability. It isnt a term most VCs use,but youcan probably imagine thatSocial Capital probably doesnt care much about that.