Ninety percentof people trying to learn guitar quit in the first year. Thats a big problem for the musical instrument industry, but also a big opportunity for one of the top guitar makers  Fender. If Fender can use digital tools like a new tuner app its building to keep musicians engaged, it stands to sell them a lot more guitars, amplifiers and more over their lifetime.Ethan Kaplan, Fenders new Chief Digital Products OfficerThats why today Fender is announcing the hiringof one of the smartest people in music tech, Ethan Kaplan, as its new Chief Digital Products Officer.Kaplan was a long-time SVP of technology for Warner Bros. Records before helping start Live Nation Labs, a tech arm for the concert ticket giant. He spent the last seven months as the general manager of audio fingerprinting pioneer Gracenote.Ive seen Kaplan speak at music tech conferences, and his no B.S. attitude about what will and wont work is refreshing in an industry of pipe dreamers. Few have Kaplans historical context mixed with modern understanding thats necessary to see how music will evolve in the face of technology.Kaplan tells me hes aiming to build a complement to Fenders big instrument sales business by using technology to ease the journey from being a beginner to intermediate to being an advanced player. To do that, Kaplan says weve got to listen to players to find out what they need.Fenders recently hired CEO Andy Mooney explains that We have a problem getting the consumers who buy their first guitar to commit for life. If Fender succeeds in keeping up a musicians momentum, theyll end up earning a ton of money buying multiple guitars and amps. We just need to reduce abandonment of first-time players by 10% to double the industry, Mooney believes.I tried learning guitar when I was 15, but got frustrated because I couldnt find super easy songs to play with the few chords I knew. Without the satisfaction of hearing real songs come out of my instrument, I quit. It was almost 10 years before I picked up the axe again, and I only stuck with it because I stumbled upon some exceedingly easy tabs for tunes by a singer I love, Bright Eyes.Mooney had a similar experience. Growing up he was strugglingbecause he couldnt figure out how to play his favorite song. It was 20 years before he figured out it was in a different tuning.Fender wants to deconstruct these obstacles.Eventually, the company wants to build apps for guitar tablature (basic instructions for how to play songs), track downloads, and deeper music education. But the first step in Fenders digital transformation will be a new guitar tuning app Kaplan is building.Breaking out in this crowded vertical wont be easy. There are already slews of popular indepedently developed tuning apps, as well as ones from music powerhouses like Gibson. Fender will have to work hard to differentiate itself.Thats where Kaplans knowledge of software and networks comes in. Hes working on an identity layer to link the tuning app with future Fender digital products. This way, Fender can learn about a musician and then personalize each experience.For example, if the tuner knows what kind of music you like, it could recommend different tuning configurations to try. Or if it knows what youre tuned to or what chords you know how to play, it could suggest tabs for songs youll be able to quickly learn. If Fenders apps can hear your play or at least know how frequently you do, it could recommend you buy new guitar strings or one of its effects pedals. Shortcuts from app to app to products could keep players in the Fender ecosystem.Its not just about making a tuning app, then another app, and another, Kaplan says. Its about how do we build a product that does something more and enables the overall journey, not just the utility. It looks like the ties that bind a bunch of products together.Outside of tuners, the landscape becomes more chaotic and rife with potential for Fender. Most tabs online arent verified as accurate, and musicians spend hours coming through mediocre tutorial videos on YouTube looking for assistance. Theyre eager to learn all the skills necessary, and Mooney says We think were uniquely suited to connect those dots.You might expect the rise of DJing and Electronic Dance Music to be causing hard times for analog instrument makers like Fender. But it turns out traditional instrument sales are still growing, albeit slowly. Mooney says Taylor Swift is inspiring a new generation of young women to pick up a Fender Stratocaster. If Kaplans tools can make Swifts songs easier to learn, those fans might put more guitars in the Blank Space on their wish list.