SoftTech VC, a San Francisco-based seed-stage fund founded 11 years ago by investor Jeff Clavier, has promoted two of its senior investors to full partners, a move seemingly geared to bolster the firmas it seeks to raise a $130 million in fresh capital.According to new SEC filings, the firm is targeting $100 million for itsfifthfund, as well as an additional $30 million for a Breakout Fund designed to support some of the companys most promising portfolio companies as they mature.One of SoftTechs newlypromoted partners is Stephanie Palmeri, whojoined the firmin 2011 as a senior associate and was promoted to principal a year later. According to Clavier, shes been spearheadingSoftTechs investments in marketplaces, consumer services,education technology and digital health and has brought 18 deals to the firm, including the social marketing startup Niche, acquired by Twitter in 2014, and the still-private behavior feedback platform ClassDojo.Andy McLoughlin, who joined SoftTech last year as aventure partner after co-foundingLondon-based Huddle in 2006, is also now a partner with the firm. Clavier says that McLoughlinwho made 36 angel investments before joining SoftTech,including in Postmateshas sponsored and source numerous deals. Among them:OnboardIQ, which helps companies screen and hire independent contractors, and LaunchDarkly, a company that helps startups soft-launch new features.SoftTechs newest funds represent a sizable step up from the firms last two funds, which were $85 million and$55 million, respectively. Still, theyre likely to becomparatively easy sell for institutional investors. One big reason isSoftTechs seed investment in the now-public wearable fitness company Fitbit, which was valued at roughly $7 billion as of December, when investors lock-up period expired. (Fitbitsstock hassince fallen precipitously, though itsstill valued at $3.9 billion.)Clavier told us back in October that SoftTechalsosold part of its stake at the time of Fitbits IPO last June.We talkedwith himagain this past weekendfor more information.TC: Fitbit was your first IPO and it was doozy, but the stock has been falling, partly owing to concerns about competition from Apple. Can you say what percentage of your shares youve sold sofar? Also, did you deliver your investors stock or cash?JC:Sorry, but I cant comment on these questions. I can say that whatever we did was before the holidays.TC: With three full partners, what will the voting structure be at SoftTech? Will your vote carry more weight than your new partnersor will two out of three votes get a deal done?JC: Everyone has to support a deal in order to get it done. There is always a champion with strong conviction advocating for the deal, and heorshe leads the due diligence. If and when there is a skeptic, well often have that person participate in the due diligence phase to make sure all questionsordoubts are answered. There is obviously respect amongst us as a team, and if one of us really wants to do a deal where heorshe has an established track record, others will defer and support  unless the over my dead body card is pulled, in which case we pass.TC: Having promoted Stephanie and Andyto partner, do you now need a principal or associate? Will you be hiring any time soon or are you happy with this flatter structure for now?JC: Were just back from our partner retreat, during which we have discussed some evolutions of roles and responsibilities in the team. Well look at bringing new resources (full time, or as consultants) to increase our bandwidth, but no investing hire is planned in the short term.TC: For those who may be curious, what are you three biggest exits in recent years, aside from Fitbit?JC:Gnip [a data company that was acquired by Twitter for $134 million in 2014], Brightroll [a video ad platform acquired by Yahoo for$640 million in 2014] and LiveRamp [a maker of data onboarding software that was acquired by data management firmAcxiom for $310 million in 2014].TC: What are you funding right now? What have your last three investments been?JC:Thelast 3 are all stealth investments But our general investment strategy is to back awesome founders building a differentiated product or service with a large market opportunity. Were very committed to SaaS/B2b right now and have been for the last fouryears, including vertical SaaS, infrastructure, application stack and developer toolsand services. We also continue investing in marketplaces,both B2B and B2C; weve increased our exposure to connected devices; and were nowlimiting consumer investments to directly monetizable services.The sectors where weve been active in the last three years areeducation technology, includinglife-long learning,and healthcare IT. Were also exploring new sectors like govtech and [looking]into services using AI, AR/VR and robots. Wevealready made two exploratory investments in the latter.TC: Themarket looks to be tougher this year, asyouve yourself acknowledged. How does that impact your day-to-day atSoftTech?JC:Not much. Were paying a great deal of attention to the selection of opportunities (we only invest in businesses right now, no momentum plays); were focused on thecomposition ofinvestment syndicates, to make sure that everyone involved is going to add value and not ride on the back of active investors; were [focused on]theamount of runway were getting throughlarge-ish seed rounds (most are $2millionto $3millionto get a minimum of 18 months of runway); and were tryingtoget the highest-quality follow-on investors we can.In the last couple of years, we have had a close to impeccable track record in raising follow-on rounds, with40 companies that have gone on to raise$800million-plus in Series A, B, C, and Drounds. I dont expect that same success rate to continue in this year and next.Rounds are getting much tougher to come together, with tractionandrevenue hurdles getting higher, valuations lower than sixmonths ago, and terms that arent as friendly.Pictured: SoftTechs entire team, including, far left, Charles Hudson, a longtime partnerwith SoftTech who last year transitioned into a part-time venture partner as he raises his own debut fund under the brand Precursor Ventures.