VR content will soon bearriving on yet another digital streaming service  this time, Sonys Crackle. But it will also include VR-enabled ads, the company announced today. That is, in addition to streamingits entire content library  including movies and original programs  in a special VR theater, it will also allow advertisers to skin thistheater with logos and integrate their own 360-degree ads.These plans were announced todayat Crackles upfront presentation held in New York City, and come shortly after rivals HBO and Discovery unveiled their own investments in VR technology. Earlier this week, the networks invested in3D graphics firm OTOY, with plans to bring VR content to their own properties, including HBO NOW and Discovery VR.Digital streaming service rivals Netflix and Hulu have also previously announced their own VRplans, and have been rolling out VR content.What Sony says makes its offering unique is that it has already jumped ahead tothinking about how the new format can be monetized. While most video content providers are still experimenting with VR programming, Crackle says its the first ad-supported video-on-demand network to provideVR-based advertising opportunities for brands.In practice, heres how this would work, as Crackle describes it.Its developing a virtual theater environment where its videos will be displayed to those who are watching using a VR headset, or another supported device. The company says it will develop for smartphones, Google Cardboard, Samsungs Gear VR and PlayStation VR. (Facebooks Oculus Rift, a top competitor to Sonys own VR plans, was not mentioned as being supported.)The theater is a fully immersive viewing environment where consumers can choose to stream any of Crackles content. While the videos play on the theaters screen, viewers who gaze around the virtual venue will be able to see advertisers logos and ads elsewhere  like on walls or seats, perhaps. Advertisers will also be able integrate their own 360-degree commercials into this experience.The company has lined up a debut advertiser for this new offering. LG will be using the ads to promote its new LG G5 flagship smartphone and its Friends  a marketing term referring to its host of accessories, which includes an accompanying VR headset and 360-degree camera.LG has created 360-degree behind the scenes footage shot by its LG 360 Cam, which will be used to promote Crackles upcoming original drama series, StartUp, starring Martin Freeman. The series, which arrives in Q3 2016, focuses on tech entrepreneurship from the wrong side of the tracks. (The entrepreneurs decide to fund their company with dirty money, form gang ties and more.)Given its tech angle, it makes sense that StartUp would be the first where these new VR ad formats are tested.In addition to making its library available for streaming in thisVR theater, Crackle ordered a VR special of its original stop-motion animated series SuperMansion, exec-produced byBryan Cranston and Stoopid Buddy Stoodies (Robot Chicken).And the company says it will be producing other VR content from its current slate of original programming, which will also be able to be sponsored by advertisers.At Crackle, we believe that creating content and ad experiences that mirror changing consumer habits are instrumental for driving viewer attention, said Crackle General Manager and EVP, Sony Pictures Television Digital Networks, Eric Berger. Were charting a path for television with a sustainable ad model that is a win for the advertiser, the network and most importantly, the consumer.Despite the fact that Crackle is investing in VR and VR advertising, like all the major players in the industry, it doesnt know what VRs impact to the bottom line will end up being. Companies dont know if viewers will watch regularlyusing VR technologies (or view 360-degree videos), or whats considered a good measure of engagement. Similarly, its hard to say what sort of metrics VR advertisers would want to see.From left, GM of Crackle and EVP of Sony Pictures Digital Television Networks, Eric Berger, actors Bryan Cranston and Dennis Quaid and Chairman of Sony pictures Television, Steve Mosko are seen at the Crackle Upfront at New York City Center on Wed. April 20, 2016 in New York City. (Photo by Michael Zorn/Invision for Crackle/AP Images)Along with the VR news, Crackle also unveiledat the eventmore details about its upcoming originals, including StartUp, the auction house drama The Art of More, Snatch (based on the Guy Ritchie movie) and new seasons of Seinfelds Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee and SuperMansion.It also introduced an ad format called break-free advertising, which reduces the number of ads per series. Instead of 300 ads over a 10-episode series, viewers only see five per episode. But only five advertisers get a spot in those episodes, allowing them to tell stories using more creative narratives and story arcs.