Sony has put a developer edition of its forthcoming smart glasses, branded as SmartEyeglass, up for pre-order today, starting with the U.K. and Germany. Its also made the SDK available.As well as developers, Sony is targeting this initial version of the specs at enterprises users  which makes sense, given that Googles competing Glass product has garnered the most interest from businesses with niche workforce needs vs the general consumer. (Indeed, Google is having a major rethink about its Glass strategy.)Starting out with a strong focus on industrial scenarios, Sony is suggesting potential applications within warehouses and workshops  with the specs offering hands-free, step-by-stepinstructions to factory workers and mechanics.It does also list some more general consumeruse-cases, such as watching sports games or for tourists viewing attractions. And, as Google did, has popped them on the dainty nose of a model to show them off in the above video, rather than opting to push the enterpriseangle. Which is pretty silly (but seems to be tech marketing 101, for whatever reason). Either way, in their current dorky incarnation, these specsarent going to be appealing to anymasses.A consumer version of SmartEyeglass isnot due until 2016, Sonyadded today or at least dubbedthat future launch its ambition. Depending on how well the dev version goes down. Presumably any consumer edition would have areworked design, given that the current look can charitably be described asa chunkier version ofthe3D glasses you get handed at the cinema to wear solelyin adarkened room.SonysSmartEyeglass Developer Edition SED-E1 is being priced to undercut Glass at520 (excluding taxes) in the U.K., or670 in Germany. The U.S. price is $840, or its100,000 Japanese yen  although its not available to pre-order in the latter two countries quite yet. But Sony says the glasseswill be onsale in 10countries byMarch.Its limiting developer access to the U.K., Germany, U.S. and Japan but says enterprise customers in France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Netherlands and Sweden will also be able to purchasethe dev specs next month.The main difference withSonys augmented reality goggles vs Glass is they superimpose monochrome information right over the users entire field of vision, rather than requiring the user to glance up ata dedicatedscreenin the topcorner. The lenses in Sonys specs are 3mm thick. The overall weight of the eyewear is 77g, which makes them a lot heftierthan Glass. (And people griped about how uncomfortably heavy Glass is to wear.)Theres also a separate controller withSony specs, which can also be used as a speaker and microphone, and includes a battery and NFC. However a hands-free device that includesa wired controller seemsrathercumbersome.Like Glass, Sonys specs do include a camera. The battery life of the device is around 150 minutes when this is not used, but drops to just 80 minutes whenthe camera is on.The specs also have anarray of on-board sensors but are intended to link to a smartphone via Bluetooth to get GPS data for navigation use cases.This weekSony also outed the companion app for the wearable, which acts as the hub to get to SmartEyeglass apps. Sony says a selection of those will be available for download when devs get their hands on the kit  includingapps for accessing Twitter, Facebook, Gmail, RSS, calendar and voice control. Its bid now is to getthird party developers tofurther flesh out those wares to try to kick start a business around the fledgling face computer. (Albeit, thats no cake-walk, as Google has discovered.)In addition to SmartEyeglass,Sony is cooking up a clip-on attachment thatadds a smart display module to a users existingeyewear  calledSmartEyeglass Attach. The company released a demo video of that otherforthcoming gizmo earlier this month. The ability to detach Attach may well turn out to be its most cherishedfeature.