Hiring is only half the battle. You still have turn that new team member into a productive cog in your master plan. But Greenhouse didnt help with that.The $60 million-fundedrecruitment software startup only assists with sourcing candidates, running interviews, and deciding who gets the job. At that point, clients were on their own.ParkletThats whyearlier this yearit partnered with onboarding tool Parklet, which lets businesses lay out and assign all the tasks for getting a new hire up to speed, from HR paperwork and issuing IT equipment to training and 30-day checkins. Clients like Pinterest, Sony Entertainment, and SendGrid thought Parklet made Greenhouse better.So much better that today Greenhouse announced Parklet is its first acquisition. Three years after its launch, Parklets team and tech will be joining Greenhouse.The startup had raised just a $1.5 million seed round from Greylock, Storm Ventures, and equity crowdfunding platform FundersClub. Though Greenhouses CEO Daniel Chait was cagey about how much he paid for Parklet, he said it definitely wasnt a firesale or acquihire, instead calling it a multi-million dollar acquisition.That money comes from Greenhouses big $35 million Series C it raised back in August. At the time, Chait told me Werenot trying to be the all-singing, all-dancing HR system. I dont know how to be kickass at payroll. But apparently onboarding is close enough to the core product.Chait explains that The moment you get hired theres an incredible emotional high, but with most companies, theres silence until you show up a month later. But thats a massive missed opportunity. He likens onboarding to the Apple unboxing experience. Its really important how it feels.WithParklet built in, Greenhouses goal is to see how quickly can I get you to the point that youre mentoring other people in the company, that you become a fanatical, loyal employee.Chait knew he wanted to acquire Parklet because theyclearly had the best product and the most traction in the market.But why would Parklet sell so early if it was doing well? The team might not have wanted to reinvent the wheel when it came to enterprise sales when Greenhouse had already done it and racked up over 800 customers.Most of Greenhouses competitors like Lever, Gild, or Jobvite stop short of onboarding. Teaming up with Parklet will put Greenhouse in contention with a new set of foes, including Zenefits  a well-known unicorn. Battling bigger rivals could convince people that the talent wars will mint a unicorn in the recruitment space, and Greenhouse is in the lead.