Today, SpaceX was hoping to achieve the first-ever rocket recovery on a drone ship in the ocean. While the companysuccessfully completed itsprimary mission of bringing the Jason-3 satellite into orbit, it wasunable to safely recover the first stage of therocket.About 10 minutes after launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base, the Falcon 9 first stage was scheduled to land on a drone ship floating in the ocean. Elon Musk, CEO of SpaceX, tweeted that while the touchdown speed of the rocket was okay, there was an issue with one of the landing legs which caused the rocket to tip over after landing.First stage on target at droneship but looks like hard landing; broke landing leg. Primary mission remains nominal  https://t.co/tdni53IviI SpaceX (@SpaceX) January 17, 2016Toppled Falcon 9 first stage on drone ship / Image courtesy of SpaceXAfter further data review, stage landed softly but leg 3 didnt lockout. Was within 1.3 meters of droneship center SpaceX (@SpaceX) January 17, 2016Its important to note that the primary purposeof the launch, to bring the $180 million Jason-3 satellite into orbit, was completely nominal. By all accounts, todays mission was considered a success and Jason-3 is now in orbit around the Earth.SpaceX repeatedly emphasized that itsrocket recovery attempt wasan experiment and thesecondary objective. Even so, this was disappointing news for many who were watching, especially after SpaceX successfully recovered a rocket on land just last month.Musk tweeted that this landing attempt was inherently more difficult than the previous successful attempt on land at Cape Canaveral.Definitely harder to land on a ship. Similar to an aircraft carrier vs land: much smaller target area, thats also translating & rotating. Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 17, 2016Screenshot from SpaceX drone ship live streamViewers were watching live footage of the drone ship minutes before the scheduled landing when the video cut out. At 200 miles away from land, the live stream was reliant on satellite internet connection. Choppy waters made it difficult to keep that connection throughout the duration of the mission and live video feed of the unsuccessful landing was unavailable. SpaceX stated that itwill provide footage of the landing at a later time.The recovery location for this launch was changed from a stable pad on land to a drone ship because SpaceX wasunable to receive environmental approval to bring itsrocket back to land.Todays landing attempt wont be SpaceXs last. During a press conference on Friday, SpaceX vice president of mission assurance Hans Koenigsmann said that the companywouldlike to attempt a land recovery at Vandenberg Air Force Basein the future. He mentioned that there will be 3 or 4 more launchesout of Vandenberg this year, allowing for more opportunities for west coast rocket landings in the future.