
Zoltan Istvan is a futurist and 2016 U.S. Presidential candidate of the Transhumanist Party. When people think about rocket ships and space exploration, they often imagine traveling across the Milky Way, landing on mysterious planets and even meeting alien life forms.In reality, humans drive to get off Planet Earth has led to tremendous technological advances in our mundane daily lives  ones we use right here at home on terra firma.I recently walked through BostonsLogan International Airport; a NASA display reminded me that GPS navigation, anti-icing systems, memory foam and LED lights were all originally created for space travel. Other inventions NASA science has created include the pacemaker, scratch-resistant lenses and the solar panel.These types of advancements are one of the most important reasons I am hoping our next U.S. president will try to jump-start the American space program  both privately and publicly. Unfortunately, it doesnt appear any of them are talking about the issue. But they should be. As we enter the transhumanist age the era of bionic limbs, brain implants and artificial intelligence  space exploration might once again dramatically lead us forward in discovering the most our species can become.Already SpaceX, led by CEO Elon Musk, has announcedit will be tackling an unmanned trip to Mars in 2018. The hope, of course, is that within the next 10-15 years, astronauts will be stepping foot upon the red planet, too. If indeed, humans can make it to Mars  and Im sure we will  much new tech would have to be developed for the mission. Its safe to say much of that tech would likely be something useful for us eventually on Earth, as well.For example, just to even live in space for the journey  itll take approximately six months to travel one-way to Mars  new ways of sleeping,recycling breathable air andpreserving foods and drink would likely have to be developed.Furthermore, the technology to withstand massive dust storms, freezing temperatures and a hostile environment on Mars would require new space suits and maybe even totally new materials. Innovation like this will benefit everyone  even if we dont know all the uses yet for such radical tech.Of course, there are other reasons for prompting a renewed and significantly larger space program in America. One of the fundamental goals of my own presidential campaign has been warning the world of the incredible threat of existential risk.The Atlantic recently ran a story by Robinson Meyer that read:At life-long scales, one in 120 Americans die in an accident. The risk of human extinction due to climate change  or an accidental nuclear war  is much higher than that.The Stern Review, the U.K. governments premier report on the economics of climate change, estimated a 0.1 percent risk of human extinction every year. That may sound low, but it also adds up when extrapolated to century-scale. Across 100 years, that figure would entail a 9.5 percent chance of human extinction.I think most people are totally unaware at how high the odds are that we screw up our species very existence. Its so high, that the newly written Transhumanist Bill of Rights has a mandate for space exploration as one of its key six points.The facts of existential risk are simple: We may not be able to indefinitely keep the planet habitable, stop a super virus from killing everyone, avoid a mile-wide asteroid from crashing into Earth, elude a warmongering Terminator-like AI or circumvent blowing ourselves up with our 25,000 nuclear warheads but we sure can get off this planet and create cool new places to live safely in outer space.The movie Elysium recently showed a dystopic but technologically plausible space habitat, where paradise is engineered in the skies  and not on Earths land or water. Now, no one wants to be forced into this scenario, but massive space habitats are worthwhile projects to pursue  and they could be possible to build in as little as 15 years.Mega-space habitats would also make an easier launch base for space mining, an industry booming with interest. Experts say it will soon be possible to mine asteroids from space  some that are worth billions of dollars each. Clive Thomson at Wired recently wrote that the asteroid Ryugu  partially made of up of nickel, iron and cobalt  could be worth up to $95 billion.As a science advocate, Im strongly pro-space exploration from a private industry point of view. But just as importantly, I also passionately support a U.S. government-sponsored space program  one that gets approximately 10 times the funding it gets now (Id get that extra money from our military budget, which is ridiculously oversized anyway). That would be nearly$100 billiona year, or about 5 percent of the U.S. 2016 Federal budget.Generally, my libertarian-minded self doesnt want the government too involved in much of anything, butbecause space exploration involves defending against existential risk and pursuing medical innovation for citizens, Id advocate for the U.S. putting dramatically more resources into space exploration. This wouldnt mean entirely relying on federal programs to push forward the space industry, but also on government partnering with or investing in private space companies.Sadly, Congress will likely put up a fight against spending too much on peacetime space exploration  they do have that habit of being boring and shortsighted. So, perhaps the best way to grow Americas space industry is to sell Congress on the amount of benefits our nation might gain from a meaningful and dramatically enlarged space program. Generally, politicians  those directly responsible for funding (or not funding) NASA  see no upside for sending astronauts to space except national pride.But if Congress could be convinced that national security against existential risk, money from space mining and precious tech innovation for U.S. citizens would be gained by supporting space exploration, then maybe they would vote to enlarge NASAs programs. This in turn would spur both the private space industry as well as transhumanism tech that makes all our lives better. This type of thinking should be a priority for whoever ends up in Congress and the White House come 2017.