In a little over a month, dozens of startups from around the world will make their way to Londons Copper Box Arena for TechCrunch Disrupt London 2015. Will your company be among them?We still have a handful of tickets available for hardware and software companies looking to display their wares in the Startup or Hardware Alley at the show, and you can secure your companys spot by purchasing a ticket here.So, why should you put your company in the Alley, you ask?Simply put, itsthe best way to connect with the hundreds of startup enthusiasts, venture capitalists and industry experts that can help take your startup to the next level. Startup Alley lets you make months or even years worth of connections in just a few days, connections youll be able to tap into as your company grows.Several TechCrunch writers and editors, as well as dozens of other members of the press, will be present at the show, giving your startup the best possible chance to get the coverage you need to make it big. So, in addition to walking away from the Copper Box Arena with a greatly expanded network, you might also find your company in front of the public eye.And youll have the opportunity to get into the highly coveted Startup Battlefield. On Monday of Disrupt, companies in Startup Alley have an opportunity to be selected as the Wild Card and pitch onstage as part of the Startup Battlefield. Audience votes will establish the top 10 companies in Startup Alley. Once the audience voting concludes, the TechCrunch editorial team will select the Wild Card company from these 10 companies.The Wild Card company selected from Tuesdays Alley will have an opportunity to demo on the main Disrupt stage.And what does this awesome opportunity cost?For 800 + VAT on Monday or 650 + VAT on Tuesday, you and another person from your company get one day to display in the Alley, as well as a ticket to the show so you can enjoy the wonderful speakers and events when youre not feverishly pitching your idea to attendees. If you need to bring more than two people, you can purchase up to three additional tickets for 400 + VAT each on Monday, or 325 + VAT each on Tuesday.Your startup must be less than two years old and have secured less than 2 million in funding to be eligible to display in Startup Alley, and as long as you meet those criteria, you can buy your tickets over on our ticketing page.Disrupt London 2015 takes place December 7-8 at Londons Copper Box Arena, and we hope to see you there. Additional information about the conference will be released in the coming weeks, so stay tuned to the Disrupt London hub for more information as it becomes available.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.