While popular location-based social app Yik Yak struggles amid controversy and on-campus bannings, a newcomer called Spayce is gearing up to compete with its own take on local social networking. Its few-weeks-old app forgoes anonymity by default, and instead encourages community members to share their photo and video memories happening around a given location, whether thats a city, college campus, neighborhood or even a particular venue.According to Spayces 22-year-old founder and CEO Patrick Colangelo, a Harvard grad who started the app from his dorm room, Spayceis about bringing people closer together, while also tapping into humans innate curiosity about whats happening in the world around them.Its human nature to want to know whats happening [in a given location], and whats happened there in the past, he claims. And that will govern whether you stay, or if you choose to leave.The idea is that users could launch the app to see whats going on at a local bar, for example, or whether theres a great party taking place down the road. More importantly, perhaps, the app (at scale) would show you whos there now, in real-time, and what theyre up to.If those sorts of concerns  finding tonightscool hotspot or hangout, that is  strike you as something that seem a bit more relevant to the 20-something college student, thats because they are. But over time, the apps user base could grow to include real-time feeds that attract a wider audience.For example, Spayce could be adopted by userswho serve up localrecommendations, similar to Yelp, likewhats good to try at a restaurant; musicians could post links to their albums on the feed for a local bar; sports enthusiasts could post toSpayce with their insights on todays big game, etc.The goal, explains Colangelo, is that, eventually, everyone could be found on Spayce.The app uses a follower model like Twitters, and has grown to just under 40,000 users since its debut onlya few weeks ago. Thats thanks, in part, to Colangelos efforts in marketing the app in-person oncollege campuses. Specifically, the app has growing traction at around 150 collegesin New York and New Jersey in particular, though the app is usable anywhere in the U.S. as of today.Colangelo says the college tour has allowed him to get user feedback in person, and theyre already preparing to roll out an updated app in response to some initial concerns and requests. In about a weeks time, the app will include a more streamlined process for posting these photo memories, an easier way to geotag them, and a private chat option.Plus, it will add a montage feature, which is sort of like a Snapchat Story that lives in the public domain. These montages willaggregate Spayces content around a given location, allowing users tosit back and watch things happening around them  even from their couches at home.The idea that the world needs a Twitter for locations, so to speak, is one thats been tried for years on endbut hadyet to take off, at least until Yik Yak came around. But even that apps popularity is largelydue toits salacious, gossipy content and users ability to hide their identities. The pull of anonymity has helpedYik Yak grow quickly, but possibly, unsustainably.Spayce, on the other hand, has its users initially identifying themselves by name and competing to create quality content for others to consume thanks to itsincluded star rating system. Once they have proven themselves by earning enough stars, they can then unlock the ability to share anonymous memories, too. Thats an interesting twist on the anonymous-by-default model and could encourage a different kind of community and vibe.In its early days, Spayce has been adding over 4,500 users daily and sees the average user opening the app five times per day, the company claims.Now a team of 10and headquartered in San Francisco, Spayce has raised $2.5 million from one wealthy Harvard angel investor (who apparently has an appetite for risk). Also on the team are Dartmouth grad Chris Taylor, Spayces lead engineer, and head of strategy Sinjin Lee, a founding member at Grooveshark.The app is a free download on iTunes.