Usually, when you fall in love with a cool gadget depicted in the latest science fiction blockbuster, the best you can hope for is that maybe, maybe, some gifted entrepreneur will be inspired to bring it to life in the years to come.For the most part, thatll be true of Star Wars: The Force Awakens (coming this December, as if you hadnt already marked your calendar). As far as I know, you wont be able to bring home a real-life spaceship or light saber  but you can buy your own BB-8 droid, thanks to a collaboration between Disney and robotics startup Sphero.To be clear, this BB-8 isnt as big as the one depicted on-screen, and it probably wont be quite as smart or independent. But hey, its a Star Wars droid that you can control from your smartphone or tablet, which is pretty freaking cool.When Spheros Chief Creative Officer Rob Maigret demonstrated the BB-8 for me, he used his iPhone like a remote control, rolling the droid around the room. He also used his iPhone to give it voice commands  for example, telling it to go on patrol. (At that point it started moving around the room on its own, looking for enemies.) And through his iPhone camera, we could actually watch BB-8 broadcast holographic messages recorded by other users  perhaps inevitably, the message riffed on the Help me, Obi-Wan scene from the original Star Wars.Maigret said that underneath the hood, BB-8 uses much of the same technology as Spheros existing robotic ball, but with upgrades like a new inductive charging system. (In other words, you dont have to plug in the BB-8 to charge it. You just place it on its stand.) And of course it has the movie droids distinctive and weirdly endearing shape  a robotic head floating above a rotating ball.Spheros BB-8 will be launching tomorrow, on Force Friday, and will retail for $150. That may be a little steep for a toy, but as Maigret put it, We think of it as more of a droid than an actual toy. Its not a disposable piece of plastic. This is a piece of technology. Other Sphero products have constant iteration, and this will be the same thing. It will constantly get better. (For one thing, he said BB-8 will actually adapt to your personality over time.)Maigret said the partnership started about 18 months ago, when Sphero was part of the Disney Accelerator. Disney CEO Bob Iger heard about the startup and became a mentor, eventually tasking the team with recreating the BB-8 from the film.Maigret, formerly an executive at Disney Interactive, is also a mentor at the Disney Accelerator, and thats how he joined Sphero. The startups vision, he said, is to create connected entertainment robots. By connected, he means connected to us, connected to the Internet, theyre aware, and their fundamental purpose is to entertain us and to relate to us. Among other things, these robots can become devices for storytelling and media consumption, he said.Over time, Maigret predicted that users will be able to program their own custom BB-8 actions (though not necessarily with official support from Disney or Sphero).The thing is, its a robot, its a droid  and people will figure out how to hack it, he said. We think thats a good thing. We dont have a kit that comes out on day one for it, but people will put two and two together.Want to see BB-8 in action? Maigret also did an on-camera demo with TechCrunchs Lucas Matney, which you can watch above. And you can learn more about BB-8 here.