Spotifys foray into video has gone live on iOS a littleearlier than expected. On Monday, The Wall St. Journal reported that Spotify had begun to roll out its video product to all users, beginning with its Android app this week. The iOS launch of the new Shows section, however, was not expected until the next week or so, a spokesperson told us at the time. While that may be technically true  after all, mostcant yet see the Shows optionin the Browse area on Spotify  there is a way to get in through the back door, so to speak.But first, in case you missed it: Spotify originally announced its plans to move beyond music back in May, saying that it would introduce video clip, podcasts, news and more to its product. The actual roll out of the video content ended up being delayed until this month, though.The company told The WSJ that it had been testing video with less than 10 percent of its users in four markets (U.S., U.K., Germany, and Sweden) in the months since the announcement. Spotifys VP of Product, Shiva Rajaraman,brushed off the late launch as being part of the plan, according to The WSJs report.This week, the launch finally began as Shows went live on Android. Accessed from within Browse, Android users can now watch videos from providers including ESPN, Comedy Central, the BBC, VICE Media, Maker Studios, MTV,, TED, NBC, ABC News, Vogue, Elite Daily, Tastemade, Wired, Fusion, and others. Content will be varied by market, notes Spotify, and can be tailored to users individual tastes.As with artists, users can choose to Follow shows on Spotify from the shows page. These are then accessible for easy access in the future from the Your Library section on Spotify.And that leads us to the back door.Though the option to browse straight to the video sectiondoesnt yet seem to be broadly rolled out on iOS, you can reach the still-hidden Shows page from Your Library.After navigating to your library, you should see the new Shows option under Playlists, Stations, Songs, Albums, and Artists. Tap this link and youll be taken to an empty page which will later listall theshows you follow on the service.Here, Spotify says Go to the Shows page to start following all sorts of great shows. You then tap on the big Shows button below and  ta-da!  the Shows page appears.This page offers a selection of featured shows and videos, a way to browse video and audio shows, and it lets you dive into the various shows by genre  like Lifestyle, Tech & Gaming, Society & Culture, News, Comedy, Entertainment, Sports & Recreation, and much more.Nothing seems to be broken here, even though the section is still hidden in Browse. The videosplay; you can follow shows, add items to your queue, and so on.Expanding to video is a notable step for the streaming music service,which is valued at over $8.5 billion, and is said to be raising another $500 million. The company claims 20 million paying subscribers, though recent leaks peg that number asbeing even higher  28 million, according to a report from the Swedish newspaper that broke the funding news.Today, video and music are overlapping more than ever on mobile devices, with YouTube trying to spin off its large collection of music videos into its own, paid service YouTube Music, for example. Meanwhile, consumersare watching more video content than ever on their mobile devices.Outside of the leaders in the space Netflix, Amazon, YouTube and Hulu  there are dozens of niche offerings popping up, ranging from over-the-top premium cable TV, like HBO and Showtime, to startup challengers like Vessel or Pluto TV, and efforts from traditional carriers and ISPs like Sling TV (Dish), Watchable (Comcast), Stream (Comcast), or go90 (Verizon: disclosure, TechCrunch parent.) All hope to carve out a niche of their own in the mobile video market.It makes sense that Spotify, which has already established a significant presence on users mobile devices as a top 10 to 15 ranked app, would expand into video. In addition to potentiallyincreasing user engagement withits application and convert more free users to subscribers, the move also pavesthe way for the companyto generate new revenue streams in the futureby going beyond the music industrys slim margins and reaching into video.