Breathe that weekend air, Saturday is here in most parts of the world! Great time to put on some music and relax, except, that is, if youre a Spotify user because the worlds most popular streaming service is experiencing some issues right now.Update: It looks like the service is returning for most users. Access to Spotify was problematic for around an hour, which makes this a notably long outage. Most users expect on-demand music soSpotify and its rivals cant afford to let them down regularly.Many of Spotifys 100 million users  me included  found themselves logged out of the service, some while listening to music, andare unable to access Spotifys mobile or desktop apps. So if youre seeing notifications that suggest that your password is wrong, that you dont have an account or that you cant log in via Facebook, dont worry assomething isnt working right and it is affecting a lot of other people, too.This is a rare outage for Spotify, which recently passed 30 million paying users. Theproblemappeared to start around midnight PDT (8:00 GMT), according to user complaints on Twitter.Spotify acknowledged the issue on Twitter and said it is working on a fix, although it didnt say what the problem is and how many users it may be affecting. (Weve contacted the company to try to get more information.)We are investigating some issues and finding out more. Thanks for your reports  well keep you updated here. Spotify Status (@SpotifyStatus) April 2, 2016Here are the error notices you may be seeing on Spotifys desktop(left) and mobile(right) apps. The web client  play.spotify.com  also appears to inaccessible.Those affected are, of course, upset, with some worried that their accounts have been wiped.@SpotifyCares @Spotify so please get back to me or refund me my $10 so I can make ANOTHER account without FB and pay again for a month Odium Ares (@Joshb2k15) April 2, 2016lost all my music and premium account, wtf is this @Spotify Lutfil Hadi (@LutfiLatiff) April 2, 2016@Spotify LET ME INTO MY ACCOUNT THAT I PAY FOR inactive/holiday (@jadeball13) April 2, 2016Hello @Spotify, I can't login to my account with Facebook! Please fix otherwise I'm going to switch. Warren Lee (@thewarrenlee) April 2, 2016@Spotify @SpotifyCares @SpotifyUSA somethings going on with my account. Logged out. Won't let me log in, not with Facebook either. HELP ME!! Tyler Stefanelli (@TylerStefanelli) April 2, 2016Hey @Spotify April fools is over, you can let me log into my account now Dylan rojas (@Dylancrojas) April 2, 2016Now might be a good time for Soundcloud, which just launched a premium version of its service, and Apple, which is now running advertising with Taylor Swift, to promote their services as alternatives to Spotify for a littlespontaneous new user acquisition. Maybe Kanye can even pipe up  he did launch new releaseson Spotify this weekso he might want to take credit for bringing Spotify to its knees. (Though it is not the reason for todays glitch, of course.)Stay tuned for more