A crowd of tech enthusiasts sat warm insidethe grand hall of an old train station this last Saturday night, on the west end of downtown Salt Lake City, Utah. They braved the otherwise chilly evening, the traffic and eschewed several other events like the star-studded Sundance to hear the next startup pitch at the states biggest evertechnology event, StartSLC.An estimated 4,000 people came out to participate in the first everStartSLC. There were a total of66 tech-related breakout eventsgoing on throughout what was dubbed athree-day tech festival, including a drone flying class, a hackathon, a Sharktank-style pitch competition and an awards ceremony.The 400 some-odd audience members in attendance this particular evening were there for the last leg of the pitch portion.Participation in the event is a testament to the growing enthusiasm for tech in the region. StartSLCs director MikeTempleman mentioned hissurprise that thismany people came to show their support for Utahs burgeoning tech culture. Not bad for a start, right? he said.One doesnt naturally think of Salt Lake City as a tech hotbed the way one mightat the mention of San Francisco. Butthe tech community hasalways been there.Utah was the birthplace of old school tech companies like WordPerfect and Landdesk. The University of Utahs computer science department claims Pixar co-founderEd Catmull as one of its own. Nolan Bushnell, the co-founder of Atari, graduated from the engineering department there.But some worry the state is still defined mostly by its religious ties and not for its technological contributions. Templemanand another organizer debated whether they should drop the SLC part and rename the festivaljust Start in the following years. They werent sure if it limited the participation or if Salt Lake could overcome the stigma it has for being a conservative and deeply religious state.The State has reached a new technological peak in the last couple of years. It was recently recognizedas the number one place for the highest startup dollars-per-deal in the U.S. Some of that can be attributed to PluralSight, Qualtrics, Vivint and a handful ofother Utah techcompanies now valued at over a billion dollars.The states low cost of living, business-friendly attitudes, relatively young, well-educated population and good engineering schools have fostered some outside interest as well.Apples Steve Wozniak joinedUtah-based Fusion IO a few years back as its chief scientist. Some Silicon Valley venture capitalists like Mark Gorenberg from Zetta Venture Partners have started coming to look forup-and-coming startups in the state. Zetta was one of the investors in Utah-based Domo.Richard Branson, Peter Thieland others have poured money into an isolated developer community within a mountainous areajust north of the state capital called Powder Mountain.Theres even a glampingcamp associated with Powder Mountain called Summit.Itregularly attracts Silicon Valley founders looking todecompress from technology.To anyone who says the #Utah startup screen is lackluster, we give you this. #StartSLC is where it's at. pic.twitter.com/RxLOs5xAKS Beehive Startups (@BeehiveStartups) February 1, 2015Clint Betts, editor-in-chief of regional tech blog Beehive Startupsand co-creator of StartSLC, hosted the pitch portion of the festival. He started his site right around the time Silicon Valley began paying attention to what some call theSilicon Slopes a few years back.Theres a rival tech blog to Beehive Startups in the state actually called Silicon Slopes, but dont use the term around Betts. He hates it. Were not Silicon this or that. Were our own thing. Were Utah. We dont need to try to be Silicon Valley, he told me.Theres a pretty fierce debate on where the moniker came from. Domo founder Josh James claims it as his. He runsSilicon Slopeswith a two-person team inside Domo and claims to have coined the term while sitting in the governors office one day a number of years ago. Others say the term actually came from the Salt Lake Olympics committee.However the term came about, it seems to be a catchyonefor outside mediato use when referring to the growingUtah tech scene.Some of the biggest tech leaders in the state participated in StartSLC, including PluralSight co-founder Aaron Skonnard.Whatever I can do to help the startup culture here Ill do it. Skonnard said of the fledgling festival. He spoke about developing tech culture within the community and about creating that within his own company.Skonnard said he agreed thatthe tech scene has always been there for Utah. Its just now getting the recognition it deserves. A lot of people shared the same sentiment with me.They say they feel it just hasnt been covered enough for others to know about it.Startups and old hat tech companies came out to show their support and sponsor various events during the three-day event. Local Eventbrite competitor SpinGo handed out sushi, Overstock.com put on an after party with a free and open bar full of the states homemade High West whiskey.We would like to see this event become like SXSW in the coming years, communications pointfor the event, Jeff Lind told me. He rappedideas with Templeman about possibly moving StartSLCto Park City to coincide with everything at Sundance or doing a Salt Lake City and Park City duel event.What we have here is something people care about. Enough people came out to support and it seems itll just get bigger from here, Templeman said about StartSLC. Whatever it becomes, its off to a good start.