
Bastiaan Janmaat is co-founder and CEO of DataFox.Dont put all your eggs in one basket, the saying goes. Well, if youre running a startup that sells to other startups, you might be putting all your eggs in one blender.B2B companies whose customersare other early stage B2B companies put themselves doubly at risk: Not only are startups failure-prone by nature, but an early stage company with strong fundamentals can still falter if its client base is vulnerable to market corrections.Recession-proofing a B2B startup isnt easy, but as fears of a tech bubble grow, it may be necessary for the companys survival.Back in 2000, Regus PLC, an international real estate company that largely sold to other startups, raced to a valuation of more than $3 billion. Then, the dot-com bubble burst and its client base evaporated seemingly overnight. The company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and now  15 years later its market capitalization still hasnt reached its turn-of-the-century high.Of course, times have changed since 2000. There are 11 times more people online, e-commerce has grown from 0.6 percent of total U.S. retail spending to 7 percent and big tech companies are sitting on mountains of cash. But, depending on who you sell to, you might be at risk when a correction kicks in (if it hasnt already).Theres lots of talk about the impending doom in the venture-funding environment; people who agree, people who disagree  but one things for sure: Were at a 15-year high in venture capital financing volume and there are lots of rumblings of a quieter 2016.What will happen if and when startup funding does retreat for some period, and valuations reset? Lots of pre-seed founders will need to find normal jobs, many seed-stage startups will fold, a bunch of Series A startups will falter, some Series B companies will retrench and so on. But heres the thing: Solid businesses with solid financials will persist. The later the stage or the closer to profitability, the likelier a company is to survive.When funding streams dry up, many companies stay barely afloat by reining in avoidable expenses. Theyll do away with their office space, lunch caterer, health insurance  and possibly their sales intelligence platform. As a SaaS CEO with many venture-backed customers, I needed to understand these potentially major risks. And even more importantly, I had to make sure our customer base would survive a downturn.My investment banking experience kicked in, and I devised a quick and dirty framework to figure out how risky our revenues are from different customers and prospects. Which startups should we be trying to get more exposure to, and from which should we ensure were diversified?My aim isnt to call out businesses I think may struggle. I wish every startup the best. But I hope this might help founders like myself seek a healthy and recession-proof customer mix.In other words, make sure youre not a Regus, and that Regus isnt your only customer.Perhaps a truly rigorous analysis would involve finding out what percentage of startups die at each funding stage or size, segmented by industry orbusiness model. We could then endeavor to avoid overexposure to the segments with particularly high failure rates. Unfortunately, startups are much more vocal about their successes than their failures, so this data doesnt exist.In the absence of that data, for my own analysis, I came up with heuristics for those success and failure rates. I based my prediction of a companys long-term strength on two factors:Ill go into scoring both factors in more detail.When funding dries up, products that are considered vitamins will quickly lose customers. Its the painkillers that retain paying customers no matter what. To determine whether a startup delivers a vitamin or a painkiller, I looked at three criteria:Admittedly, the second criterion applies more readily to B2B companies than to B2C companies, but I think thats fair; great consumer products, while incredibly valuable and/or addictive, can be abandoned in tough times. Moreover, the third criterion can favor consumer products that have very strong brands. Great products are both sticky and cost-saving or revenue-generating. Here are just a few examples:On the other hand:The companies whose products are painkillers are more likely to weather downturns. Next, I wanted to estimate how large and durable each startup could become in the future. I scored each companys long-term growth prospects on two criteria:Mobile payments platform Venmo and groceries-as-a-service Instacart score highly on incremental addressable market, because theyre mass-market products. Uber is another example; they were an early Twilio customer and major fuel behind the latters growth. On the other hand, large and entrenched companies like UPS and CarMax can be great customers  for the logo, as well as the revenue potential  but they are less likely to fuel your startups growth the way Uber did Twilios.And on the profitability scale, previously mentioned Looker is a SaaS company with, Im guessing, a healthy LTV/CAC. The path to profitability is clear, although often deliberately delayed in exchange for growth. Thats the kind of customer I want DataFox to have. Instacart, though? Nowhere near profitability, and therefore a riskier customer. All else being equal, I want to target prospects with a clear path to profitability.On the chart below, youll see a few of the examples I mentioned. The critical reader will notice that my framework favors post-Series B enterprise SaaS companies; for my worldview, I think thats appropriate. Theres a reason the failure rate in SaaS is so low once a company approaches initial scale.I guess this is why private equity investors look for a diversified client base; its risky to be overly reliant on one customer or one type of customer.There are so many different types of companies and so many factors that go into each companys probability of success. My intention with this rudimentary framework isnt to score companies against each other. If I could actually pick the winners, Id start a concentrated VC firm! Rather, I want to educate B2B founders  including myself.It goes without saying that I measure DataFox using this same scorecard. It took us a while to get here, but much of our product choices are made with the goal of being both a cost-saver and a revenue-generator:We would have been a pretty risky company to sell to 12 months ago, but by moving toward a painkiller product and healthy customer base, were on our way to protecting ourselves against a downturn.Many startups, as natural early adopters, are fueling other startups growth. With a potential correction in venture funding on the horizon, its becoming more important to be thoughtful about your customer mix. Theres still ample time to make sure youre not stacked in a large, but fragile, house of cards.If youre looking for more post-Series B SaaS companies to start diversifying your customer base, this list is a good starting point.