Apps like Flipboard, SmartNews, Nuzzel and a rush of others have tapped into the rise of social networking to offer a new way ofdiscoveringthings to read and see online. Now add another app to the mix called Starlikethatstaking this idea to a new level.Like the others, Starlike (out oniOS and Android) creates a social newsfeed of a sort based on our friends and contacts social activity. But instead of news or other links shared by them, its based around what people star/favorite on Twitter, or like on Facebook and LinkedIn (hence the eponymous name Starlike). Yes, that faved item could be a news story, but it could also just as easily be a funny joke someone made, ora photo someonetook.Starlike is the latest app to come out of Aols Alpha  a new, independent (ie no tie to promoting any other Aol product) app studio of 20 people run by Ryan Block and Peter Rojas to develop low stakes experiments, in the words of Rojas.With Alpha,Aol is making the most of the entrepreneurial talent it has to see if it can build something new: thisis the same duo that founded and/or rannot one but two blogs bought byAol, which also owns TechCrunch. It is Alphas second app. The first was a messaging app called Pip, launched in December 2014.Ironically, some of theearly inspiration for Starlike came from when Rojaswas leading strategy for the Brand Group at Aol. A lot of people there were saying we should build a news reader app, he recalls. (No, not this one. And not this one, either. Something else.) I thought that besides that having been done to death, it didnt feel like that interesting of an idea. There are a lot of good solutions out there for apersonalised news experience soI thoughtof the white spaces.The premise of Starlike is an interesting one. Facebook and Twitter introducedtheir thumbs-up and star buttonsas aneasy way to encourage engagement with content from people who may not be inspired or interested enough to produce some of their own.Faves and likesare somewhat static and hidden, though: generally the only people who can see what youve liked has been the recipient of it. In effect, what Starlike is trying to do is to turn those little, distant blinks into bigger, flashing lights.I was surprised by how much cool stuff you could surface just by looking at what your friends were faving, Rojas tells me. Its a bit like having a curated version of Twitter where youre seeing just what your friends think is interesting.Rojas tells me that Alphachose those three social networks in part because theyve been some of the most popular for people favoriting content, but also because their APIs allow for aggregating the actions (while Instagram is another obvious addition, there is no API available yet to extract peoples endorsing hearts).Also, they have been slow tocovert those actions into something more interesting, and the user experience for reading on them is not always great. LinkedIncan be very difficult to use, and so were offering a format that is much easier to read, he says.And so far the platforms have been playing nice. We worked with Twitter for elevated access, he says. He isalso today flying across the U.S. to meet with Twitter to keep the conversation going. Its still working to make it a better experience. Theyve been a great partner for us and very supportive.Thats for now, at least. Twitter has been running some experiments of its own trying to extend the half-life of its starred Tweets, but some of those have backfired pretty badly, so its no surprise that for now it doesnt mind handing that that kind of work over to someone else, in a separate experience. But just as it has made moves to keep the Twitter experience on Twitter for other aspects of the service, it may choose to reign in faves eventually too.Nevertheless, for now those likes and stars are free for anyone to catch, and thats where Starlike is jumping in.For now, the project is pretty early in its conception. No ability to edit or tailor your feeds to focus on specific subjects, only the option to fully mute those who are extra keen on faving and liking content. There is a bookmarking feature to save content for later, and the ability to fave content from within the app to then show up on the other networks. But there is no monetization of any kind, includingno ads while Alpha focuses solely on seeing if this is something people will use.And indeed, the Alpha folksknow that its tough out there in the apps world, and it may not turn out to be used.In that sense, they are following on in what seems like current trend, of studios creating several different apps at once and watching to see which of them works, and which do not, focusing on the positives and moving forward. (Another two studios with a similar ethos are Kevin Roses North and Garrett Camps Expa. Rose has now left Google Ventures to focus on North full time, and it has just raised $5 million to continue its efforts.)And Alpha plans to do the same. So far, Pip  a Yo-like app that lets you quickly send contacts pre-made phrases  is a go-er.Were looking at releasing the next version already, with changes made in response to user feedback, he says. No word on numbers for Pip except that its seen great reception and were happy. But they know that wont always be the case. Im not sure we have hard and fast rules on iterations on a product before we decide to sunset or shut it down. Were trying not to have a rigid playbook. Its a product methodology that makes sense for this space. App stores are a hit-driven business, and its hard to know what will be the most successful app.