
Eamonn Carey is entrepreneur in residence at Techstars, and a board member at Lingvist, Motivii and Sorry as a Service.I hear a lot of horror stories about investors. Many are misunderstandings. Some are just outright false. Then there are those that are true. Sadly, there are a lot of those.Theres the alleged angel in the Baltic region who committed (in an email) to leading a round and then refused to talk to the other investors and eventually seemed to bury his head in the sand and disappear. There are countless stories of mysterious Middle Eastern angels who put teams throughpainful pitch, due diligence and negotiation processes only to bail (post-term sheet) after months of promises and B.S. about the money being delayed/lost/stolen/on the way.This kills companies. Ive watched great entrepreneurs with brilliant ideas sink because theyve been fucked around and because they made poor choices. Many of the so-called investors involved are odious individuals. I wanted to write something that willhelp people avoid having to deal with them, so here are some tips.Financial institutions are bound by a regulation called KYC (know your customer). Its time we created KYI for investors. You should want (and probably need) to know whos investing, why theyre investing, who they are, how they made their money, what else theyre up to, what theyre like to work with, whats their temperament and risk appetite and other such useful tidbits.Do somedigging on the people youre going to target  creep on their AngelList, CrunchBase, LinkedIn and other profiles. Check to see if they blog, tweet, judge at Startup Weekends, mentor at accelerators, speak at conferences or do things that the vast majority of other investors do. Are they talking about their existing investments? Do they add value to industry conversations? Do they seem credible? Do they appear mostly sane?Red flag No. 1.If they dont have an online profile of any description, be a little wary. There are some super-wealthy people who obviously dont want to be on LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and other such platforms as theyre too busy in their walk-in humidors. But in general terms, someone who has zero online profile makes my spidey senses tingle.Red flag No. 2. If youre constantly dealing through an intermediary, be wary. When you get into Series A/B/C, etc., its more natural for this to happen. This is whatventure capitalis, to a certain extent. In angel rounds, if youre not regularly dealing directly with the angel,this is likely a pattern that will repeat. Also, you run the risk of Chinese whispers and subsequent misunderstandings.If someones going to give you anything between $5,000 and $500,000 that they could otherwise spend on a holiday, a car or a buy-to-let flat in Walthamstow,they should probably want to look you in the eye and talk face to face. Likewise, if youre giving someone a single- or double-digit percentage of your company, youll want to spend time with them. If you ask to meet an investor and that never happens for various spurious reasons, dont take their money.Ask to talk to companies that the investor has previously put money into. This leads us to red flag No.3. If they refuse this, or are sketchy about it, you should be very, very wary. Talking to companies that your investor has previously put money into is pretty normaldue diligencefor a startup. You should be asking what the investor is like to work with; are they pushy, obnoxious, needy, anxious, cool, useful or just good/bad/indifferent to work with.The right investors should be happy to share this info with you. The bad ones wont want you to find out that they are secretly tools. Incidentally, you dont need an investors permission to do this  if they have investments listed on LinkedIn, AngelList and other places, just connect directly with the founder/CEO and ask.Red flag No. 4. Watch out for loonie valuations. The less sophisticated the investor, the more of your company theyll want. The classic instance is where the investor wants 51 percent of your business. In most funding rounds, you should be aiming to give away 10-25 percent of your company. The lower end implies youre a hot deal or youre doing something really well. The higher end implies its riskier or perhaps the traction isnt that great. In early rounds, my personal feeling is that anything more than 25 percent is too high and can create a disincentive for founders, staff and current/future investors. Anyone who wants anything north of 25 percent is worth spending some more due diligence time on.Red flag No. 5. Watch out for people who arent at least reasonably amenable to standardized term sheets.Seedsummit, YC and many others have produced great templates that are pretty standard. Watch out for things like participating liquidity preferences (1x liquidity preference is probably ok, others would argue its pretty standard). Watch out for warrants, vesting clauses that are overly punitive, full-ratchet anti-dilution clauses and stuff like that. If you dont understand these terms, you need to. Do yourself a favor and buyVenture Deals and appear smarter than your lawyer. Also, get a lawyer.Red flag No.6. Watch out for people who only bring cash to the table. Introductions, advice, connections and guidance are the most useful things that early-stage companies can get. The right type of angel  usually one whos been there and done that  is worth 10x their investment in this regard. Theyll shill for you at conferences, introduce you to people, act as an additional BD/sales/HR person and generally add way more than just cash to the equation. Ask not what you can do for your investors (you should know the answer to this already  make them a fuck ton of money), ask what your investors can do for you.If youre feeling cheeky, send them this. But seriously  be upfront about asking what else theyre bringing outside of cash  can they introduce you to potential clients or useful contacts? Can they help with hiring or international growth? Do they know the reporter covering your area at the biggest trade publication or at the FT? Can they connect you with bigger investors when the time is right?Red flag No. 7. Watch out for people who want overly complex financial projections (or other ludicrous requests) when youre pre-revenue or pre-product. Anyone with a brain in their head will know that it is A) guesswork and B) producing this material is a time sink.Smart early-stage investors are backing the team, the market and the idea  probably in that order. If someones looking for five-year projections, youd be as well off reading the tea leaves with them. Definitely have your product roadmap in your head, and some ideas about how youre going to scale into new markets, etc.  and have an idea of what youd like to make, but you shouldnt have to waste your time on projections.Red flag No. 8.Watch out for people who drop off the face of the planet after giving you a soft commitment. As a species, were not great at saying no to people, so a lot of investors will simply break off contact instead of saying no. If someone drops off the radar after saying they arein, it probably means they are out. If theyre going on holiday, having surgery or doing something else that prevents them from replying to an email/WhatsApp, etc.,theyll probably tell you.Red flag No. 9. If your gut feeling is bad about someone the first time you meet them, pay attention to that. You dont have to be best mates with all of your investors  in fact, youshouldnt be. But, you do have to at least tolerate them. If youre lucky, youll be talking to and emailing them once a month for the next five to 10 years. Gut feeling is important.Im not saying discount an investment straight away, but if someone feels off, creepy or just not right, spend a bit more time figuring out why, and definitely do at least one more meeting to double-check that feeling. I have taken on investorsin previous businesses who I really didnt like when we first met, but they offered money. It ended like this.These are just a small subset of the things you should be lookingfor when youre talking to early-stage/angel investors. Its equally as applicable to later-stage investments, but in the early stages of a business, this is serious stuff. The people you take on as investors at the start can be a huge predictor of the success of future funding rounds, or the company as a whole.Ive heard stories of people who had investors who were supposed to put in the second tranche of funding, but couldnt because their assets had been seized by a country as a result of various nefarious deeds in the past. Ive met companies whove taken investments andthen did their due diligence on the investor only to find outthey were one of the leading fugitives from a European country. As you can probably imagine, having someone like that on your cap table is going to make it a lot less likely that a tier-one VC will invest in your next round.Do your homework. Do it early. Do it often. Dont be afraid to askfor references and more info about the person whos investing. If theyre sufficiently motivated and interested in you, they should be happy to do it. If theyre sufficiently smart, theyll respect you asking. If theyre sufficiently sketchy,you need to think about casting a wider net.