Stayzilla, an India-based service that combines regular hotel bookings with short-term, Airbnb-style rentals, has announceda $20 million Series Bround to grow its business.The round, details of which leaked last week, was led byNexus Venture Partners and existing investor Matrix Partners. Stayzilla, which was founded in 2010, nabbed an undisclosed Series A round in October 2013 having closed a$500,000 seed-round in 2012.Stayzilla is an interesting beast. The overall focus is on letting users book accommodation across India for a stay of up to one month. The startup which makes money viaa varying rate of commission on each booking  initially went after traditional stays, such as hotels and guest houses, but hit a growth spurt when it eased up on how it managed alternative accommodation selection  principally peer-to-peer rentals and homestays.Stayzilla CEO and co-founder Yogendra Vasupal told TechCrunch that the service had around 22,000 rooms  36 percent of which arealternative  across4,000 towns, as of December 2014. Back in January 2014, he said, alternative rooms represented just 5percent of its then 5,000 roomcatalog. With more options to choose from, revenue over that period increased seven-fold, asthe company processedaround $2.8 million in bookings in December thanks to the surge in non-traditional rooms.Alternative accommodation has exploded over the past year,Vasupal told TechCrunch. He revealed thatthe company expects this trend to continue, and it aimsto hit 50,000 roomsacross 8,000 towns by the end of 2015.Interestingly, 70 percent of Stayzillas business comes from so-called tier-two, -three, and -fourtowns in India. Yet, despite the relatively scarce use of desktop internet in this part of the world, Stayzilla doesnt have native apps. Thats because the company realized that so few of itstarget audience in lesser towns have access to stable 3G internet, many couldnt even download a mobile app if they wanted, Vasupal explained. For that reason, Stayzilla introduced a lightweight mobile site in April 2014 instead.And, once again, the progress and data is impressive.Vasupal said that half of traffic to the site comes from mobile, up from just 10 percent in January 2014. The percentage of books made from mobile during that period also jumped, going from just seven percent to around 40 percent.Stayzilla has made a push to hire engineeringtalent from Indias top colleges to develop the tech side of its business, which will soon include native mobile apps which are scheduled for April 2015. More generally, it plans to doubleits current 350-person team over the course of this year.Unlike Airbnb, the billion dollar company from the U.S., Stayzila is focused on serving Indian consumers and their lodgings in India, rather than the international community.Vasupal didnt seem particularly concerned about its big rival, instead he stressed that Stayzilla accommodate those taking domestic trips in India.A further difference between the two companies is Stayzillas role as a virtual concierge for each booking. Airbnb lets hosts and guests arrange details themselves via its site, but Stayzilla acts as the interface for customers  taking pressure off of a host, and guaranteesalevel of service forits customers.