For the first time, children under 13 are allowed to have an official presence on Facebook. They still cant have a profile, but their parents can now tag photos of them (or pet) to create a Scrapbook.This lets parents collect photos of their baby, toddler, or pre-teen in a centralized place they can share with friends or loved ones. Scrapbook will first roll out in the U.S. on iOS, Android and desktop.Facebook tells me its looking into how it could let parents hand off control of the scrapbook to their kid when they turn 13 and can legally join Facebook. And if you hate seeing baby photos, giving parents a way to identify them could be the first step to Facebook hiding them from your feed.Meet Rom. Rom is a bouncing baby boy launched by Facebook Scrapbook product manager Dan Barak and his co-founder (wife). Barak wanted a better way to compile all the photos of Rom he was uploading on Facebook, so he built one.Before Rom was even born, I started seeing friends who were parents adding photos of their kids and tagging their partners Barak tells. This was a clever hack. By tagging their partner in photos of their kid, a parent could instantly notify their significant other they had uploaded one, made it visible to their partners friends, and create a place to find those shots in the Photos Of Me section of their partners profile.We asked and interviewed a bunch of parents and found 65 percents of partners who share photos of their kids on Facebook [in the U.S.] do this, says Barak.So like Twitter turning RT: into the retweet button, Barak took all the benefits of the tagging hack and baked them into Facebook Scrapbook.To create a scrapbook, people will be able to go to the About section of their profiles, and then the Family And Relationships tab. There theyll see options to start a scrapbook from scratch or make one for an existing child. This lets them establish themselves as a parent and create a phantom presence for their kid (which has ad targeting ramifications Ill get into later).Barak tells me theres an easter egg in the family member selector for starting a scrapbook that lets you choose to make one for your pet.Next, youll see a cute animated video about how Scrapbooks work, starring a baby elephant named Elly. Youll then select whether to co-own the scrapbook with your partner, which means theyll also be able to tag photos of your kid, get notified about those tags, have the photos default to being visible to their friends, and change the Scrapbooks privacy settings.Once the Scrapbook is created, parents will be shown photos tagged with them or their partner, and can click to identify which ones feature their little munchkin (though theres no facial detection for kids, as thatd be creepy). The Scrapbook then becomes a special collection of photos of the kid from other albums. Parents can tag their kid in other peoples photos, too, and get a notification if the privacy setting of those photos changes.From then on, if they ever want to show someone photos of their kid, theyve got them all in one place. Years down the road, Barak says, Facebook hopes to let teenagers assume ownership of their Scrapbooks.Everyone whos on Facebook should control their own identity, Barak says. So if they dont get laughed at by their middle school friends,Barak tells me, its private to them and they can do whatever they want. If they want to remove it they can, or they can make it more public.Facebook Scrapbook Product Manager Dan BarakBarak says Facebook wanted to ship [Scrapbook] early and get feedback from parents, so therell be a prominent link in the product to send comments to the company. One feature Facebook plans to add is a subscribe button that will let loved ones like grandparents get a notification any time a photo is added to a kids scrapbook.But shipping early has its risks, too. Facebook hasnt quite figured out an elegant way for Scrapbooks to work for mixed families with step-children and step-parents. A maximum of two people can be the owners of a Scrapbook, and those people have to be in a formal relationship on Facebook (expect domestic partnerships for friends who co-own a pet). Divorced parents could always start separate Scrapbooks, but theres some potential for emotional stress even if Barak says Were not passing any judgement.Getting parents to out themselves could be good for Facebooks business, though Barak says it was never an incentive. This was my baby project that came along with the baby. Still, to use the Scrapbook, you have to list yourself as a parent, which signals to Facebooks advertisers that they might want to target you with ads for toys or kids clothes.On the brighter side, people who despise seeing baby photos on Facebook may be in luck. When I asked if Facebook could use the Scrapbook tags to identify which photos have kids in them so it could hide those photos from people who never look at, like, or comment on them, he admitted, Its something weve thought about.