Earlier this week, I joined a group of journalists to meet with director Alex Gibney and discuss his new film, Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine  andthe first thing he did was put away his iPhone.It was no big deal, but the action took a little extra humor and weight since the documentary is all about our relationship with Jobs and the products he created. It opens with footage of the mass outpouring of grief after Jobs death in 2011, and the rest of the movie asks: Why did people feel so much attachment to the CEO of an enormous tech company? And is Jobs really worthy of such admiration?Gibney isnt trying to convince people that they should stop buying Apple products  after all, hes still got that iPhone. Instead the aim is to raise questions about Jobs values and the influence those values had on the rest of Silicon Valley (where Gibney often sees a similar rough-and-tumble libertarian vibe).The way the Jobs film ends, theres no prescription there, he said. To me, the best films are the ones that force you, not force you but encourage you to take something out of the theater and the questions roll around you in your head.On the other hand, the films ability to address those questions may have been hampered by the fact that many people declined to be interviewed  theres no Steve Wozniak, no one currently at Apple, and the closest you get to Jobs family is Chrisann Brennan, the mother of his first child Lisa. In fact, Gibney recounted how Apple employees walked out of a screening of the movie at South by Southwest  at the time, Apples Eddy Cue tweeted that it was an inaccurate and mean-spirited view of my friend.The film is not a slam, Gibney countered. The film is a meditation on this guys life and what it meant to us. Its not so simple.The movie certainly highlights the less positive aspects of Jobs story, particularly in a long section towards the movies end, where Gibneycovers topics like stock backdating, antitrust litigation, conditions at the Foxconn factories that actually build Apple products and Jobs fight with tech blog Gizmodo over the lost iPhone 4 prototype.I was particularly struck by the amount of time devoted to the stock backdating case, which is discussedin more depththan the development of any individual Apple product. Gibney said that it was worth covering in detail for a number of reasons. For one thing, theres the betrayal of that story  two of the people who were essential in [Apples] comeback [namely, CFO Fred Anderson and general counsel Nancy Heinen] get thrown under the bus.In addition, Fortune editor-at-large Peter Elkind (who worked with Gibney on this film, and on previous movies including Enron: The Smartest Guys In The Room), had obtained video of Jobs deposition with the Securities and Exchange Commission  a deposition that became the hidden backbone of the film.Gibney said the footage highlights how moviescan shed new light on a subject. He admitted that it drives me a little bit crazy when reviewers say that theres nothing new in a movie, as if what a film should be is a list of facts. In Gibneys view, its not really about the facts, its about the texture. So in the case of the deposition, you could just read the transcript, but it wouldnt capture what Gibney saw as the vicious, sarcastic contempt for the SEC examiners that Jobs revealed in the footage.But again, not everything shownin the film is negative. For my money, the actual best scene is an interview with Bob Belleville, head of engineering on the original Macintosh team. Belleville speaks ruefully about how he didnt realize how bad working for Jobs could be. Yet when he reflects on Jobs death, he starts to cry, intensely. Its a complex, moving moment  and, to Gibneys point, its not really something that can be captured in writing.I can only guess, he said. My view is that he really did think that by making products that were really beautiful and really good and really attractive to people, he was really changing the world. Maybe thats an aspect of Zen that he embraced  focus on one thing, do that really well, and  everything else is bullshit.Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine is playing in theaters and available through video-on-demand.