Casual gaming, say hello to super-duper casual gaming. A mobile game that you can play in your iPhones Notification Center  yes, without even unlocking your phone  is nowthe No. 15 top game in Apples U.S. App Store and is flirting with becoming a top 50 Overall app. Called Steve  The Jumping Dinosaur Widget Game, the game is a very simple experience involving a dinosaur that, as the name implies, you make jump to avoid obstacles in order to achieve the highest score.As atypical game, there wouldnt be much to write home about here. But whats clever is the integration with the iOS Notification Center  a place you dont normally find entertainment experiences like this.Its always interesting to see what app developers can come up with when they push the boundaries of whats possible with the current technology, of course. In the past, thats led to interactive Notification Center apps like Launch Center Pro, which lets you launch apps right from the Notification Center, or Workflow, which puts shortcuts to frequent actions into the Notification Center, for example.To date, these sort of tappable widgets have been more purpose-based or utility driven, however. Steve changes that by offering a mindless time-waster of a game requiring little commitment on the users part. You dont even have to launch an app.After installing the game, if you tap its app icon, it will just display the steps required to add a widget to your Notification Center, in case youre not already familiar with how iOS widgets work. Once added, you simply drag down the Notification Center from the top of your iPhones screen and then tap to start playing.You can even choose to turn the games arcade-like sounds on or off right within the Notification Center, too. And when you die,you can tap to start over.(To be honest, the game is not complex enough to require anexplanation, but there you go anyway!)The game was created by 22-year old founderIvn De Cabo, who currently works as an iOS junior software developer in Spain where hes also involved in other startups, including one he co-founded. Steve, meanwhile, was a side projectbuilt in a weekend.I wanted to do a simple game just to improve my code skills and decided to do so in the Notification Center for two reasons: tochallenge myself and to see if it was possible, says De Cabo.Oh, and yes  in case Steve looks familiar  the dinosaur character and the gameplay itself was inspired by the Google Chrome Easter egg. In Chrome, adinosaur appears when the browser cant display a webpage  like when your Internet connection is offline. However, if you press the spacebarthe Chrome error message turns into a simple obstacle runner game, just like Steve.De Cabo sayshisgame is meant to be a tribute, andtheres no intention of plagiarism here.So far, Google has seemed willing to let this slide, we should note. And to be fair, its hardly the first mobile app to have copied the Chrome dino game  though it does appear to be the first on iOS.Steve takes the game a bit further than Chromes version, by offering the option to unlock other characters like Ninja Turtles or aNyan Catfor $0.99 a pop. In addition to the new character, the game will also go full color instead of black-and-white, as when you play with Steve.Fans are now sending around 2,000 emails per day asking for more characters, De Cabo says, and hes already created 30 more to be released in future updates.Thanks to whats now a ton of media coverage, the game ended up in Apples trending search section last week, helping it to go viral. By this weekend, the game was seeing more than 40,000 downloads per day, despite a lack of marketing. Its all word-of-mouth, De Cabo claims.Its now seeing nearly 50,000 downloads daily, were told. To date, the game has been downloaded more than 400,000 times.But oneinteresting side-effect of building a Notification Center game is that iTunes Connect analytics cant track usage, as itsanalytics are based on the full-screen app usage, De Cabo notes.For now, we know that users are playing and returning based on the growing players per day on the leaderboards, and basically how it keeps growing by the promotion of the users and their feedback emails, he says.Stevehas also since climbed from the No. 32 Overall Game a week ago to No. 15, currently. And its gone from the No. 105 Overall Free app to nowNo. 53 in the U.S.Plus, thanks to its traction, one buyer has been increasing theirbid to acquire the game, going from $350 initially to $60,000. But De Cabo says he has decided to keep it for himself.Of course, things like this often tend to have a short lifespan in terms of maintaining their top ranks  remember Flappy Bird, anyone?That said, for the time being, Steve  The Jumping Dinosaur Widget Game will be the thing everyone will be telling you that youve justgot to try.Steve is a free download on the App Store.