Happy Friday!Today is WhatsApp monthly active user number update time, folks. The Facebook-owned messaging service, which doesnt yet have a business model, has now crossed 900 million MAUs, as CEO, co-founder and (now) Facebook board member Jan Koum revealed on Facebook. (Of course.)The app reached 800 million actives back in April, some four and a half months ago. Prior to that, it went from 700 million to 800 million in three months, and 600 million to 700 million in just under threemonths. No surprises there folks, scaling gets progressively harder the larger your userbase is  but reaching 900 million active users remains truly a feat that few services can achieve in this day and age.What will be interesting for WhatsApp, is thatit might soon actually start making money. To this point, the app had charged users $1 per year, with the first year free, but that model appeared to bedropped after Facebook bought the company for $19 billionlast year.Mark Zuckerberg previously said that there are many clear ways that we can monetize once a product hits one billion users,and that figure is just over the hill for WhatsApp, assuming that itmaintains its impressive growth.So, how will Facebook monetize WhatsApp?Thats open to debate  particularly since Koum and his team have adamantlysaid No ads! No games! No gimmicks!inside their app  but the clues are to be found inthe Facebook Messenger platform. Inspired by messaging apps in Asia that act as mobile internet portals for hundreds of millions of people,Facebook wants to use its chat app to help brands and consumers connect and generally be the first point of contact with the internet, as is the case with its newM personal concierge service.The logical move would be to extend that model to cover WhatsApp. Messenger has 700 million active users, so adding WhatsApp would vastly increasethe reach of the Messenger platform and makeit even moreappealingto developers, brands and others from whom Facebook candraw revenue it is ready to switch the monetization tap on.I still think that, with WhatsApp struggling to dominate the U.S. market and its userbase spread right across the world, it might not be as easy as many people assume. You can read my thoughts on this subject from April if you are so inclined.