Tintri, a company that develops storage solutions for virtual applications, announced a $125 million round today.The company also indicated the next logical step is probably going to be an IPO in the first half of2016 if market conditions are right.The roundwas led bySilver Lake Kraftwerk. Existing investors Insight Venture Partners, Lightspeed Ventures, Menlo Ventures and NEA also participated. Todays round brings the total raised to $260 million.Tintri builds a flash-hard drive hybridstorage applianceand works with companies specifically building virtual applications. If you look whats happening in the enterprise, applications aremoving from physical to virtualized workloads. We [developed]a purpose-built appliance targeting high performance workloads running on virtual machines, company CEO Ken Klein told TechCrunch.He called it smart storage because it uses algorithms thatmonitorthe virtual machines, assigningthe heaviest workloads to faster flash storage (while backing up to cheaper hard drives) and moving virtual machines with less activityonto hard drives.In a blog post, Klein wrote that the company was oversubscribed for this round, and he believes its because its sitting at the intersection of three important trends: virtualization, cloud and flash storage. He believes putting these three elements together in a single companymade it very attractive to investors.The company has actually defined its own storage category it calls VM-aware storage (VAS). It may be a buzz word, but it seems to be having an impact with over 800 customers so far, according to Klein.Customers include some heavy hitters, such asChevron, Comcast, GE, MillerCoors, Rogers Communications, SK Telecom, Sony and Time Warner, as well asmany government agencies.The company recordedtriple-digit growth for fiscal year 2015 over 2014, according to Klein.As for that IPO, he says the company is hoping to pull the trigger in the first half of 2016, but it will depend on market conditions. We are not ready today, but we will be ready. Market conditions need to be there. We cant control the market. We can only control our own execution, Klein said.The management team is experienced in executing IPOs and he said they have a plan to be IPO-ready that they will implementover the second half of the year.The company will beusingthe new money to get the word out. Klein believesthe company has been too stealthy to this point and wants to use the money to increasebrand awareness, build out the channel and execute an aggressive product road map.He said itwould be making several product announcements later this month ahead of theirTintricityuser conference.