Following this weeks resolution of a carriage dispute that would have otherwise caused a blackout of Viacoms TV channels on Dish Network, the two companies have worked out a deal that will not only keep those channels live, but will also bring select channels to Dishs Internet streaming service, Sling TV. According to Viacom, the company will make Comedy Central, BET, Spike, MTV, Nick Jr. and others available on Sling TV in the coming months.While no exact launch date was given, its worth noting that the channels will arrive on both of Slings products  its original single-stream service and the newly announced multi-stream service. The latter, in case you missed it, addresses one of Sling TVs largest problems (besides its still-clunky interface and glitchy streaming issues).Before, you could only stream Sling TVs service to one device at a time. The new multi-stream product lets you streama limited number of Sling TVs channels to up to threedevices at once. The company is negotiating to expand the channel lineup for this product, so the Viacom win is a worthyaddition.In total, Viacoms 18 channels will be carried by Dish Network, while a smaller group is coming to Sling TV.Unfortunately, it appears that the Sling deal misses out onone of Viacoms top kid properties: Its flagship kids channel Nickelodeon was not mentioned as being one of those arriving on Sling. VH1, CMT, TV Land and Nicktoons were also not listed, though they will remain on Dish Network.Its also unclear for now how the new additions will be packaged on Sling TV. The streaming service offers its users a core bundle of TV channels for $20 per month, then lets userscustomize that base product by adding on $5/month packages centered around a theme  like kids channels or more sports, etc. Its likely that some of these new additions will be used to improve the channel lineups found intheseextra packages.Still,this was a hard-earned deal that came right down to the deadline. The previous contract had been set to expire at midnight Eastern on Wednesday. Dish, whose pay TV service has around 13.8 million subscribers, is not a customerViacom could afford to lose  especially as more of todays consumers are cutting the cord with traditional television in favor of over-the-top streaming services.And for that very reason  cord cutting  Dish had been pushing for Viacom to agree to let it stream its channels over Sling TV.Financial terms of the deal were not revealed, but The WSJ said thatViacom will receive a mid-single-digit percentage increase in its affiliate fees from Dish for each year of the five-year contract, citing sources.Execs touted the deal in a positive light, in Viacoms announcement.Dish has historically been and remains an important partner for Viacom, and as part of our commitment to entertain audiences wherever they are, we are pleased to offer select Viacom networks as part of DISHs Sling TV product, said Viacom Executive Chairman, President and CEO Philippe Dauman in a statement.We appreciate Viacoms willingness to continue with us on our journey as we work to deliver the best, most innovative television services available, addedCharlie Ergen, DishsChairman and CEO.