Following its acquisition of Stitch last year, SugarCRM  a CRM competitor to Salesforce  has picked up another startup to enhance thearsenal of intelligent sales tools that it provides to its customers. The company has acquired Contastic, a startup based out of Mountain View that built a platform based around natural language processing technologyto analyse communications between sales people and their contacts, and help themkeep up those relationships.Terms of the deal arent being disclosed.Contastic had raised an undisclosed amount of funding from investors that included IDG-Accel and Lightspeed.Contastics site looks like it went offline back in January, which Contastic now tells us was due to the acquisition.SugarCRM says that the deal will includeintellectual property rights and other assets but no customers. According to the archive of Contastics site linked here, previous customers had included employees at Oracle, Accenture and Tesla.As part of the deal, Contasticsfounder and CEO Cy Khormaee will join SugarCRM as its director of product management for predictive analytics. Contastics team is thrilled to join Sugar to expose their NLP technology to a much wider customer base in the coming months, the company saidin a statement.Contastic had built a platform that drawson data sources like email, LinkedIn and Salesforce essentially to create a composite picture both of the target contact, and a sales persons existing relationship with that person, then also providing extra content  suggestions of relevant news stories  to help start up conversations with those people.It sounds like SugarCRMs interest in Contastic is specifically around the content suggestion aspect of its platform. In an interview, Larry Augustin, SugarCRMs CEO, said his company will be using the technology toprocess and understand emails and other interactions between individuals, suggesting relevant content. Some of this technology is likely to make its way into future releases of SugarCRMs primary platform and Augustin says the company is still thinking about how it will further monetize the assets.(Indeed, Stitch, the startup SugarCRM acquired last year, was also a tool to help sales people proactively follow and close deals.)Contasticcompeted with and sat alongside a number of other tools on the market that are also in the general category of predictive sales like Clari, 6sense, InsideSales and more. This combined with the fact that a lot of CRM is consolidating around specific platform players like SugarCRM, Salesforce and Oracle; and that there is something of a funding squeeze for some startups  will mean that we are likely to see more M&A activity, says Augustin.There is a lot of interesting tech that we are working on around helping peoplebea lot more connected and establish business relationships, but alot of those feel like they are features that need to hook into a broader system, he said. We have a very broad platform that extends the whole cuxtomer lifecycle, andwhether you are talking about a Contastic or Stitch its hard to monetise them separately. Weare going to remain acquisitive. Lets see what others in the space plan to do.What this will also help SugarCRM do is strengthen its own product while it too waits for its next liquidity event. The companys most recent round of new funding was a $40 million Series F i 2013  made at the time as the company was anticipating an IPO.Times, for sure, have changed, but Augustin says SugarCRM  which started as an open source project but has since stopped updating its open source edition in favor of a more commercial model  is in a strong position.We havebeen cash flow positive since2014. We dont needto raise money and we havea strong balance sheet, he said. Ive always said that our goal is to be a large public company. We have the scale and continue to think of that as a goal but the markets are not attractive right now and we dont need to do it. Well do it when it works for us as a business.This is SugarCRMs fourth acquisition  after buying iExtensions back in 2011, Stitch and an (until now) unreported acquisition of process management and workflow technology from ProcessMaker (but not ProcessMaker itself).