Another European startup exits to an American tech giant. Predictive keyboard app maker SwiftKey, based in London, confirmed today it has sold to Microsoft. Sources put a price-tag of $250 million on the deal, although neither SwiftKey nor Microsoft are confirming a figure.Its interesting that such a widely usedapp  withinstalls on some 300million devices, across Android, iOS and its SDK products  should feel the need to take anexit. Although it seems likely acquisition was always the end-game for SwiftKey, given that predictive keyboard tech is (arguably) an expected necessityrather than anice-to-have add-on. And given that a keyboard app has no obvious path to becominga platform in its own right, as certain messaging apps have been able to.Basic predictive text has been around since the pre-smartphone era. And while SwiftKey has always trumpeted claims of near telepathic powers of prediction thanks to its AI/machine learning core tech, its arguably been a shrinking differentiator withmobile OS platforms uppingtheir own game in that regard.For example, Apple added its own next word prediction feature to iOS 8 back in June 2014 even as it also opened up the iOS keyboard system wide keyboard to third party devs like SwiftKey for the first time. The latter movesubstantially increased the number of keyboard competitors piling ontoSwiftKeys territory. And while SwiftKey has grown active usage from some 200 million+ devices as of mid-2014 to some 300 million now, a year and a half later, the opening up of the iOS walled garden would appear not to have led to the influx of usage that SwiftKey might have hoped.Asked by TechCrunch in mid-2014 whether it wasgunning to become a billion-user business, co-founder Ben Medlock suggestedthat sort of scale wasnot completely out of range, given what he said wereroughly 300 to 400 million users on iOS that wouldsoon becoming within the orbitof SwiftKeys app.If you look at the proliferation of touchscreen devices I think there really is a chance of getting to a billion end-points, he said at the time.Using the technology, we currently have somewhere north of 200 million [active devices]  thats through a combination of our licensing deals and our app downloads And were just ramping up now to really focus on distribution.In the event, SwiftKey has thus far managed to achieve around third of a billion users. Most of whom, presumably, areon Android. (Although itdoes not break out usage per platform SwiftKey hasbeen on Android since 2010, and iOS only since fall 2014.)Over someeight years in existence as a business, the London-based startupraised just under $22 million from investors whichinclude Index, Accel and Octopus. So paying back those VCswith a timely exit was evidently the clearer path here, vs attempting to sustain and grow a standalone app business in an increasingly competitive landscape. Or trying to transform its app into a more valuable platform play.In previous years SwiftKey charged for its app, but as keyboard competition proliferated it switched to a freemium model, in mid 2014  offering the core tech for free and launching a themes store as its initial contentmonetization plan. But selling colored keyboard wrappers never looked like a hugelyserious business model for an app with hundreds of millions of productivity-loving users. Even as giving away its core techundermined the future viability of itsexisting licensing business to OEMs. (SwiftKey couched thisas a way to widen its reachin emerging markets where its licensing model would have been out of reach anyway.)And while itclaimed to have other paid for content plans up its sleeve, its focus seemed more on acquiring new users by giving its app away than on milking its user-base. Which makes senseif acquisition is your end game because then you are playinga pure numbers games  since youre selling potential reach to your buyer (vs your rivals potential reach).Of course thebasic math here, from Microsofts side, is calculating how far it might be able tospread its Cortana AI assistant if its piggybacking on the existing SwiftKey user base vs how much its having to spend to buy SwiftKeys reach. But the fact Microsoftsinterest in SwiftKeyapparently centerson Cortana does beg an interestingquestion of why SwiftKey didnt move to develop anAI assistant of its own  to augment and extend its predictive keyboardapp.And perhaps transform into that sought for platform.Since there are clearly some synergies to be leveraged between predictive keyboard technology and a virtual assistant designed tocrunch data to make useful predictions, as Microsoft has recognized.Why not do that? In a word: risk. When faced with the choice between the simplicity of an exitto an existing tech giant or the complexity of developing, marketing and maintaininganother product thats at least onestep removed fromyourcore expertise  and which also brings you into directcompetition with multiple tech giants already battling to dominatethis space (e.g. Apples Siri, Facebooks M, Amazons Alexa, Google Now, Microsofts Cortana)  well, its easy to see why taking the money wasby far the simpler choice for SwiftKeys co-founders.SwiftKey the product, then, was likely a very well-honed, VC-backed feature lookingto sell itself to an established tech business. As today it confirmed it has. Thisexit suggests that sustaining a standalone app business is not easy in todays crowded app marketplaces and that even with hundreds of millions of users monetization can still posechallenges. But it also underlines thatthe right strategic choices can pay off pretty handsomely.As SwiftKeys co-founders put it in a rather understated statement on the acquisition:We believe joining Microsoft is the right next stage in our journey.In other words, if your exit strategy is, well, to make an exit, thats not necessarily a commentary on how sustainable or otherwise yourstandalone app business might have been. Although having a pay-back strategy is a must. So perhaps it is a commentary on the relative ease of an exit vs pivoting in the hopes of future value.A ~10x exit isnttoo shabby at all. Plusits guaranteed money in the bank vs the unquantifiable risk of spending to keep swimming in the seethingly competitive cauldron of the smartphone space.So not quite a swift exit for SwiftKey then, but a timely one that will have its investors smiling nonetheless.