Its hard to believe the 9th Annual Crunchies will be happening soon. It seems like only yesterday we all gathered in Herbst Theater and celebrated the first Crunchies Awards; little did we know it was the just the first of many successful Crunchies to come. As the 9th Crunchies approaches, we thought itd be fun to take a trip down memory lane and revisit past shows. Over the next few weeks leading up to the show, well be taking a look back at some of our favorite winners from past events, and what better way to kick off the celebration with our very first show in 2007.2007 was an interesting and exciting time in tech. Facebook was still the revolutionary new way people were connecting with friends, family, and people they havent talked to since high school, and the then-newish social network won the Best Overall Startup award at the show.Of course, Twitter was even newer and already starting to nip at Facebooks heels, and the now incredibly popular micro-blogging platform won the Best Mobile Startup award that year.Other notable winners included Hulu (Best Video Startup), Tesla (Best Clean Tech Startup), Kongregate (Best Time Sink Site, which is arguably still the case) and Automattic, the makers of WordPress and considered the Startup Most Likely to Succeed with the Best Startup CEO Toni Schneider.And, of course, the very first iPhone won the Best New Gadget/Device that year, and that award was pretty spot on. Now, almost 10 years after the iPhone came out, the iPhone and other touchscreen smartphones still pretty much run our daily lives.What startups will take home the coveted Crunchies this year? The nominations have closed for now, and were busy tabulating your nominations to narrow down the nominee field, which well announce sometime in January. The winners will be announced at the 9th Annual Crunchies on February 8th, 2016 at the San Francisco War Memorial Opera House, and youre definitely going to want to be there to witness the spectacle.Tickets to the Crunchies are available now, and you can secure your spot for as little as $115 on our ticketing page. That ticket not only gets you into the show, but also the festive after-party that includes a hosted bar, hors doeuvres, networking and other fun surprises we have in store for you.We hope to see you there.Our sponsors help make the Crunchies happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.