Another live streamingstartup is hoping to grab its share ofeyeballs. Tandem, which launched last week after a short beta test, is a bootstrapping fitness-focused platform aiming to offer a low friction outlet where personal trainers, fitness teachers and so oncan broadcast personal trainingsessions and other healthy lifestyle focused content be itrecipe ideas, nutrition tips orguided meditations.Itspairing live video with a livetext chat features to allow for real-time Q&As, so fitness pros can use the platform to, for instance, take and respond to questions from viewers.Tandemshope, says founder and CEOTristan Zier,is to carve out a fitness-specific niche in a live streaming space thatalready has big tech platforms duking away for dominance  withTwitters Periscopesquaring up toFacebooks Live feature,for example. Albeit the likes of Periscope, Facebook andMeerket are not focusing on a specific live video niche as Tandem is.The startup is the new project from Zierwhose prior startups include the YC-backed but now shuttered Zen99.During Tandems three week beta henotes: Weve had people use it both for video blogging (e.g. personal progress, sharing their workouts) as well as instruction (e.g. cooking, leading meditations).Weve been in touch with over 2,000fitness professionals of varying degrees  yoga teachers, personal trainers, fitness celebrities, gym owners. Were starting with them, but the platform will be (and currently is) open to anyone. We expect some to use it as a social community, e.g. tracking their progress or transformations and interacting with others on a similar journey, he adds.The platform is not currently providing fitness broadcasters with a way tomonetize their streams but Zier says it will be adding a raft of features to enable this  so theywill be able totakedonations and subscriptions, generatemerch sales and take ad revenue in a way he describes as similar to the e-sports/video games broadcasting platform Twitch.Tandem will then takea cut of any sales to monetize the platform  provided, of course, it can bring in broadcasters and viewers alike. Zier says its been in touch with several thousand fitness pros and had some 300+ express interest in getting involved at this nascent stage.Of course plenty of fitness pros already use existing video platforms such as YouTube to share and monetize their expertise, tapping into YouTubes massive audience. But Zier reckonsthe live stream element further lowers the barrier to entry for fitness pros to get involved in sharing their expertise. While having a dedicated fitness-focused feature set aims to appeal to that particular community.Fitness is inherently a social and visual activity, hence why it has taken off on platforms like Instagram and the BodyBuilding.com forums. Live streaming is more real and genuine than other types of content, and is much lower friction for someone to create, he argues.Well be creating specific features like subscriptions/donations, merch sales, and brand endorsements that are specific to fitness. Since were fitness specific, well also be a hub for fitness related news.Other live streaming fitness-focused startups include Finland-basedYoogaia, which offers subscriptions for live streamed yoga and other fitness classes. Meanwhile, just last week, a food-focused live video platform startup called Nom.com alsolaunched, as more startups seek to capitalize on growth of digital video ads.