Handbrake turn! U.K. based taxi app Hailo is handing in its private hire vehicle (PHV) license in London and going black cab only, which is where the business began  only expanding to include PHVs in May 2014 and causing some irate cabbies to attack its offices last year. But from now (5pm U.K. time today) Hailo will only offer the ability to book black cabs in London.As a company founded by Cabbies, Hailo was made strong by its original connections to the taxi trade and we feel weve drifted too far from it, says CEO Andrew Pinnington penning a blog postwith the news.Expanding on this in a phone call with TechCrunch, Pinnington, who has only been in post for around nine months (so was not around when the decision to open up to PHVs was taken), said there are both emotional owing to its origins as a business founded by cabbies and pragmatic reasons for the shift.He said the reasons Hailo previouslyopened up to PHVs were to do with ensuring it could appeal to corporate users wanting executivecars, and that it had enough vehicles for hireto meetdemand at all times of the day.Whats happened over the course of the last 15 months or so as we got more and more into that corporate space we discovered that actually what corporates are telling us is actually having an extra class of vehicle is, in many cases, just irrelevant, he said. So that rational doesnt really exist any more. And then from a reliability stand-point over time our supply base has strengthened.At this point Hailo has some 16,000 registered cabbies on its system in London, according to Pinnington. Its not breaking out active monthly users in the city at this stage, saying only that its been responsible for putting closeto 10 million people in the back of London cabs oversomefour years of operation.Hearguesthe switch to solely offer black cabs positions Hailo to focus its efforts ontargeting a different segment of the market vs a certainvery well funded PHV competitor; akaUber. From a pragmatic perspective its the right call to make It allows us to really stand for something, he said. Now weve got a very clear position in the market  whereas before we were nether one nor tother.So what is Hailos clear position in the London market now? Pinnington argues the businessdoes not compete head on with Uber because itsaiming to appeal to the types of users who have other priorities than simply getting somewhere forthe cheapest price.There are two very distinct types of service here, he said. If you are a different type of consumer, if you are a mum and dad with a large amount of baggage and prams, if you have a disability, if youre blind, if youre war wounded, if youre potentially feeling vulnerable  whether youre a child traveling alone or whether you are a female who has certain concerns about safety and security, there are lots of different types of consumer who arent necessarily just interested in getting from A to B in the cheapest form possible.What were trying to look at is to say, as a society, we put value on things above and beyond just purely a race to the bottom and doing things as cheaply as possible  so that might be accessibility, that might be safety and reliability, it might be service. Its not necessarily all about price. It might be businesses who want the most knowledgeable and speedy way of getting from A to B when the citys snarled up. So there are lots of different reasons why people would choose different types of service.If you allow the market unfettered access  and if you just drive it based on price  then there are certain elements of social, which in a global city like London, will decided thats not necessarily what we want, he added.This week Transport for London, the local government body which regulates cabs and PHVs in London, kicked off a consultation on proposed changes to PHV regulations. Any changes will affect Ubers operations in the city, but not Hailos now  given it has stepped away from the PHVmarket.Uber has slammed TfLsproposed changes as bureaucratic and a threat to the current service level it offers in the capital. Asked for his response to theconsultation  which includes proposals such as a mandatory five-minute pre-pick-up wait time, and the suggestion that PHV apps should not be able to show real-time availability of cars around the users location,Pinnington said: The important thing to note is its a consultation. Its not a series of regulations theyre going to enforce. There will be strong opinions on both sides.Were going to come down more on the side of saying theres more than just free market economics to consider here. Theres a societal interest as well. Instinctively because were a modern, high tech, high growth company we dont shy away from competition. So Im not looking to stand here and say they should be regulated out of business It sharpens everyone to have strong competition. Thats healthy for everybody. But what weve got to ensure is when we have this debate that more than one side is heard  and the full picture is understood.Catering to specific consumer interest groups involves the cost of a little bit of regulation, he added. What final form that regulation takes is something that TfL will have to decide on the balance of all the input.Pinnington says Hailo has various plans for tech developments forits own service from here on in, including adding more features to its apps  perhaps such as real-time traffic updates and the ability for drivers to track earnings in one place. Its also trialling a fee-less mobile payment solution for accepting credit card payments for journeys in the cab.Another area where its looking to shake things up is its commission modelfor drivers. Instead of a flat10 per cent per job commission fee, as is currently the case, it will be offering a menu of options for drivers  such as the ability to pay a small fixed fee per week and then pay a lower commission rate. What we understand is treating the driver body as one-size-fits-all is a fairly illogical way of approaching the business, Pinnington added.Herefused to be drawn on whether Hailo isin the midst of raising another funding round  its raised some $100 million to date, with investors including Union Square Ventures, Accel and Wellington Partners  saying only that early stage startupsare perennially on the funding trail.In addition to London,Hailo is operationalin severalother markets globally, including Ireland, Spain, Singapore and Japan  although it retrenched from theNorth American market last Octoberciting increasingprice pressure from competitors such as Uber and Lyft.