


Facebook

LinkedIn

Teach-U: VR
NYU Shanghai studentsSean Kelly andSam Shi wantto use the potential of VRto increaseaccess to information. Over the weekend at the TechCrunch Disrupt Hackathonin New York, the duo initially looked into assistingstudents studyingbrain surgery but they switched their target and developedTeach-U: VR  a platform that letsstudents, and particularly young people, learn music.Kelly said they were drawn to the topic because of the potential to help young people develop their creativity. Since not everyone has the money or free time to learn with a teacher in a traditional setting, VR can bethe platform for studyingat a far lower cost or overlong distances.Music education has proven positive effects for children and adults alike  however when schools cut their budgets, music ed is often one of the first programs to be abandoned. This leaves hundreds of thousands of kids without music in their lives, theyexplained.Kelly and Shi used Googles Cardboard VR device with an infrared sensor from PMD added to enable hand gestures into the virtual environment. So beyond merely observingvia Cardboard, users can reach out, touch and play their virtual instruments.They also adapted the setup  which was developed usingUnity, Carnivals SDK and good ol fashioned tinkering to allowtwo concurrent users in the same virtual reality space: the teacher and the student.Initially, the service supports drums and piano. I had a play with it and, considering the project is less than two days old, I came away impressed, although the hand gestures required to play the instruments take a littlepractice to learn.Kelly and Shi studyin Shanghai but are seconded in New York for this current semester. They plan to keep developingTeach-U: VR whenthey have time, and PMD was particularly keen to lend support to this promising idea. (You can read more about their hackthon experience here.)VR is poised to breakoutthis year with Oculus, HTC and others all releasing their first headsets to the public. The initial focus and use cases are very much centered around gaming and content, but thats really just scratching the surface. The ability to replicate environments and tap into mobile  Cardboard requires a mobile devices and not an expensive or sophisticated PC setup  means thatanyone in the world can use it and get into any kind of scenario. So projects like this  which go beyond gaming to democratize access to information and education  will be keytomaking the most of virtual realitys potential.