I know this might be shocking to you, but Im not a fashion expert. Im lucky if I can find two matching socks to wear. Most of the time I give up and dont. However, it looks like the rest of the tech world is looking to up itsfashion game, namely Apple and Amazon.In this years September Issue of Vogue, both companies put their best foot forward among fashion icons like Vera Wang, Calvin Klein, Louis Vuitton, Kate Spade and Giorgio Armani. Fashion Week is coming up and these companies want these specific eyeballs.Luckily, my fiance April and I took a long plane ride so she had time to fill me in on why this is interesting. Apparently, this specific issue of Vogue is commonly referred to as The Bible. All of the big upcoming trends are featured there. Its 832 pages of ads (and some content, of course). Theres even a documentary about the making of September issues.Its not the first time that tech companies took to this issue, with Google turning the trick in 2013 to promote Glass. It felt really forced, though. And it clearly was, since Glass is now being worn by doctorsand not models (or aspiring models).As April went through the magazine on the plane she pointed out tech references left and right. Apple Watch! Amazon Fashion! (whatever that is) Apple Music! Even Star Wars gets a nod. Thats a lot of geekiness for a crowd that appreciates proper eyeliner and a $200 pair of jeans.But thats just it, this is the audience that these companies want. For a normal issue, Vogue sees about 1,256,659 copies fly out the door. The September issue is its own beast and its total audience breaks down like this according to the magazine:When Apple acquired Beats, it was about a few things: tech, Dr. Dre, the powerful lifestyle brand, Dr. Dre, and Dr. Dre. Beats is cool. It carries cache. Its the kind of cache that doesnt look like an out-of-place Google Glass spread in Vogue. It fits.An Apple Watch is a fashion statement rather than a tech gadget. I mean, thats why Apple has an absurdly priced version of the devicejust so it could hang with the Vogue crowd. Its basically a requirement.As far as Amazon goes, I have no clue what Amazon Fashion really is. They dont have their own line of clothes or any interesting spokespeople, but I guess its something theyre trying to ramp up, especially since they have a new London photo studio to impress folks with shots of clothing.I mean, if you wanted to pre-order the massive Vogue Ads issue you could do soon Amazon. So theyre clearly all in on this fashion game.The fashion world and tech are on a collision course and its not just because of wearables. Its the lifestyle, the coolness and a race to see who can take geek to chic the fastest.Now excuse me, Im going to resume my search for matching socks.