Heres a visualization of all the major commercial real estate deals involving the tech industry and San Franciscos SOMA district over the past threeyears,thanks to Stamen Design and broker Kalin Kelly, who finds space on behalf of tech companies and nonprofits.The pointof thisvisualizationis not a surprise. Itsknown that there arelots of tech companies inthe SOMA neighborhood of San Francisco.What I wanted to convey with this piece was thishuge trend or movement south into SOMA. Tech makes up 60 percent of the office space in the neighborhood, said Kelly, who predicts that companies will start moving into the West SOMA area between 5th and 10th street. Maybe 5 percent of space is actually available. Theres not a lot there and its slim pickings for growing companies.Kelly and Stamen Designs founder Eric Rodenbeck sit at the intersection of a complexdebate about how excruciatinglylimited space shouldbe used between tech companies, non-profits and the arts. Rodenbeck helms one oftheleading studios in the field of data visualization and isbuying up buildings topermanently set aside for arts groups like Counterpulsethrough a project called CAST, or the Community Arts Stabilization Trust.If you dont have galleries and space for performances, there will be no there there to it, Rodenbeck said.Hiseffort has been accelerated and complicated byan influx of tech companies into the city, which have pushed commercial office space rents to around $67 per square foot for top Class A space. Thats pretty much equal to the dot-com bubble peak.Thecost pressures are so intense that a deal to build a mixed-use project with housing and an arts center in the Tenderloin fell apart this week after two years of effort between the developer and the city government.As recently as five years ago, thetechnologyindustrys center of gravity was down on the peninsula, somewhere around Palo Alto. Thats whereit has mostly been for the lasthalf-century, althoughthere wasa group ofdot-comera startups thatwere centeredin the city15 years ago.So how did this migration happen? Some of it is part ofa nationwide trend, where urban city centershave seen a 0.5 percent increase in jobs per year between 2007 and 2011 while the job creation in the periphery hasdeclined or stagnated, accordingto this studyby City Observatory.Some ofthe migrationis specific to the Bay Area. Job growth in Silicon Valley and San Francisco has outpaced almost every other metropolitan area in the country.Thecities in theSouth Bay areequallystressed for both office and residential space, with Mountain Viewentering tense negotiations withGoogle as it prepares to announce plans for a new headquarters this week.The industrys biggest successes foundeda decade ago or more like Facebook, Google and LinkedInare all headquartered on the peninsula. But afterabout2006 when Twitter was founded, the major companies start  and grow up  in San Francisco.Voters also altered San Franciscostax structure to be more in line with what other comparable cities do by switching from a payroll tax to a gross receipts tax.As you can see on the map, there were a bunch ofmid-size officedeals in early 2012 from Airbnb to Yelp and Yammer. But the big one was Zynga in late 2012,when it moved into its 668,000 square foot headquarters around Showplace Square.The office space biggest deals in 2012 include Zynga, Salesforce and Square.That was followed the next quarter by Salesforce in several deals across the northern part of SOMA and Square in mid-Market. Uber follows that with another lease for 88,000square feet the following quarter and Google ends up being thebiggest commercial real estatedeal of 2013.2013s biggest deal is Googles lease for 372,000 square feet up around the Embarcadero.Between Google, Dropbox and Pinterest, 2014 was a total frenzy with more than a dozen major deals, all involvingat least a hundred thousand square feet of space. Not only did Twitter finally move into its mid-Market headquarters,Uberstraight up bought land for itsheadquarters while Salesforce set itself up toanchorthe citys tallest tower in 2017.2014 almost broke office leasing records in the city with major deals from Salesforce, LinkedIn to Uber going all-in on buying up land to build its own headquarters in Mission Bay.Kalin said that venture firms and technology companies need to be more active inreal estate policyin the city, with rents often being the topline itemfor startups after talent. She pointed to a recent listing in South Park where abroker was fishing for a $120 per square foot rate, which is double the going rate in the city.If startup founders and VCs were more educated about the market, we wouldnt be seeing $120 per square foot listings, she said. Tech companies dont have to be rampant gentrifiers. They can also contribute to the civic vitality of the city and keep it a vibrant place.Indeed, the city is still in the process of planning changes to the Central SOMA area that may shift industrially-zoned land to office use and boost height limits, which has myriad consequences for tech companies and non-profits alike.