The world has lost a true technology legendafter Andy Grove, theformer CEO and chairman of Intel, passed away aged 79. Grove had suffered Parkinsons disease, but the cause of death has not been made public at this point.Grove was the first hire at Intel, having worked with Intel founder Gordon Moore (of Moores law fame) atFairchild Semiconductor. Grove joined Intel at its creation in 1968, and he subsequently became the firmspresident in 1979 and then CEO in 1987.Intel paidtribute to the impact that Grove, who was born in Hungary andmoved to the U.S. in the mid-1950s having survivedNazi occupation and Soviet control, had on its business in a blog post:Grove played a critical role in the decision to move Intels focus from memory chips to microprocessors and led the firms transformation into a widely recognized consumer brand. Under his leadership, Intel produced the chips, including the 386 and Pentium, that helped usher in the PC era. The company also increased annual revenues from $1.9 billion to more than $26 billion.Andy approached corporate strategy and leadership in ways that continue to influence prominent thinkers and companies around the world, said current Intel chairmanAndy Bryant in a statement.He combined the analytic approach of a scientist with an ability to engage others in honest and deep conversation, which sustained Intels success over a period that saw the rise of the personal computer, the Internet and Silicon Valley, Bryant added.Gove wasnt just a business pioneer, he also moved the needle as an author and a business strategy pioneer.Aside from his time with Intel, Grove wrote a number of critically acclaimed books on management, including High Output Management and Only the Paranoid Survive, which remain current today more than a decade later.Apple CEO Tim Cook, Salesforce CEO Marc Benoiff and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella were among the manyto pay tribute to Grove on Twitter:Andy Grove was one of the giants of the technology world. He loved our country and epitomized America at its best. Rest in peace. Tim Cook (@tim_cook) March 22, 2016Very sad to hear of the passing of the great Andy Grove, former CEO of @intel. A tremendous positive force on our industry & community. Marc Benioff (@Benioff) March 22, 2016Saddened by the passing of Andy Grovea pioneer, a leader and agreat teacher Satya Nadella (@satyanadella) March 22, 2016Shedding a few tears tonight for my hero and the best CEO and teacher I have ever known. Goodbye Andy. I love you. https://t.co/a4BoDq2RH3 Ben Horowitz (@bhorowitz) March 22, 2016Im sad to hear that Andy Grove has died. I loved working with him. He was one of the great business leaders of the 20th century. Bill Gates (@BillGates) March 22, 2016An excerpt from Andy Grove's autobiography. He is in post-war Hungry and applying to immigrate to the US. pic.twitter.com/K7C9ZhgWaK Adam Smith (@asmith) March 22, 2016RIP Andy Grove. The best company builder Silicon Valley has ever seen, and likely will ever see. Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) March 22, 2016Andy Grove was an inspiration growing up, his impact will be felt for a long time. RIP Andy Grove https://t.co/FRmzkM4QEP sundarpichai (@sundarpichai) March 22, 2016Sad to read this. Loved reading his thoughts on management. Inspired me greatlyAndrew S. Grove 1936  2016 https://t.co/Tdox80WNzV Daniel Ek (@eldsjal) March 22, 2016Grove is survived byhis wife, Eva, two daughters and eight grandchildren.