We have some incredible speakers coming to the TechCrunch Disrupt London conference on December 7-8. Were not just talking global sporting superstar Thierry Henry, by the way. Were talking about a roster of Europes most influential people in technology today.And as we speak, TechCrunchs journalists are sifting through the entries for the Battlefield where we will publicly launch 25 brand new, disruptive, startups live on stage.Disrupt London is one of Europes most anticipated technology conferences of the year, and follows on from our huge San Francisco event in September.Each day starts with panels and one-on-one discussions moderated by TechCrunch writers and editors, special guest speakers, leading venture capitalists and entrepreneurs. In the afternoon, we host the Startup Battlefield competition which culminates in six finalists taking the stage at the end of the event for a shot at winning the Disrupt Cup, and taking away a 30,000 check. Yes, 30,000 people!Buy your tickets to Disrupt here and save 400 if you buy before November 6. You can also grab Startup Alley tickets here, where you can showcase your startup.In addition to onstage panel sessions and fireside chats, Disrupt will also feature Startup Battlefield and Startup Alley to London.Startup Battlefield competitors pitch their companies live and onstage to innovators, investors and influencers in the tech community. TechCrunch identifies emerging companies to demo and compete for a prize of 30,000 (42,000) and the coveted Disrupt Cup, won previously by Mint.com, Yammer, Fitbit, and Dropbox, among others.The Startup Battlefield will select around 30 brand new startups to launch on stage in front of a panel of top VCs and other founders, coverage on TechCrunch and the winner gets the 40,000 prize. Startup Alley offers another way for early-stage companies to gain exposure with a setup that encourages both exhibiting and networking, and provides high visibility. Roughly 100 startups comprise Startup Alley with around 50 new companies demoing on Monday and 50 demoing on Tuesday.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.Additional speakers and agenda details will be announced between now and the show.