TechMeAbroad is a techjobs startup specifically fordevelopers lookingto find work abroad  be it in Silicon Valley or elsewhere helpingthem findcompanies happy to sponsorwork visas in order to fill their tech vacancies.FounderJulien Barbier is banking onthe increasing global demand for developers, and out-and-out war for tech talent in hubs like Silicon Valley, turning what is aniche jobs board website right now into something much bigger down the line.Barbier is himself a French developer working in Silicon Valley, who has beenmaking introductions between fellow French engineers wanting to followhim tothe U.S.and tech companies hungry for developertalent for years, after he co-foundeda global French tech engineer network called while42.With the success of [while42] I had a lot of French engineers who wanted to come to Silicon Valley but they didnt know how so they would contact me, email me, Facebook message me and [ask for] help to find a job, he explains.At the same time Im working with a lot of startups and they wouldsaid hey, you created this huge network, we cannot find engineers here  its really a pain. And every time we find engineers Google comes up and doubles their salary and they go out, so can you help us hire French engineers? And I would say yes, and do you sponsor visas?Hes now turned thatcasual and manual introductionhabit  which had morphedintoa Tumblr blog where he would post startup job offers hed heard about and tell enquiringFrench engineers to check them out  into a formal startup business of his own, bootstrappingthe launch of TechMeAbroadlast month as an MVP.The job board startedwith around 20 to 30 job offers. Two weeks later that had increased to around 140, just by word of mouth, and hes now busy building additional features, such as a job search function and the ability to comment on postings and ask companies questions.He says a future business model for the site is likely to involve charging companies a monthly fee to list jobs, as well as gatheringaffiliate revenue from related services  whether its legal, accountancy or relocationrelated services; whatever a techie needs to help them settle into a new country. But hes not currently charging companies to list jobs  focusing on growing usage at this nascent stage.Given the fierce war for tech talent in places like Silicon Valley, Barbier argues that more tech companies and startups are going to be willing to swallow the time and expense of sponsoring work visas for foreign developersas it may be the only way they can fill their vacancies. And is probablycheaper than trying to poach engineers from the big tech giants.Meanwhile, he reckons many younger developersare keento travel  withthe workforce generally becoming increasingly mobile and willing to relocate forwork. Another reason for more techies to become gainfully employed ex-pats.American companies try to hire Americans, because thats what they know, but the reality is theres more than half a million jobs unfilled in the U.S. which costs billions of dollars to the U.S. economy because theres a lack of talent. So the pool locally isnt big enough. So we see more and more companies looking aboard, he says.U.S. startups withtech vacancies havelikely been pinging potential candidatesrandomly on LinkedIn. Or contacting developersvia their blogs or through their work on GitHub. TechMeAbroad aims to simplify that processby offering a central hub where startups can attract skilled tech workers willing to relocate.Barbier says existing online job boards, like Monster, havent bothered specializing in this niche tech area because of the limited number of visas available. I think thats why no company has really specialized in thisBut I seethis as a small market that will be bigger andbigger  because if you want to sustain the U.S. economy you will have to hire people from abroad. You dont have the choice.We talk a lot about the U.S. but really its every country around the world. Theres no country today that is producing enough tech engineers for work locally. So there will be a bigger and bigger market for this as both companies and countries will have to compete more and more to attract those people, he adds.There isnt very much info on work visas to be found on TechMeAbroad  although job postings sometimes list the type of visa a company is willing to sponsor  but thats intentional, says Barbier. Ultimately its not for candidates to worry about that side; the companies will be taking care of it.Usually it is the company who takes care of this. Usually the company is working with a lawyer and the lawyer is takingcare of the case. And the company inthe U.S.has to pay for the filing and the visas. Its forbidden for the company to say hey were going to pay you X but since were going to pay for the visa were going to pay you X minus Y, he says, adding:So really the candidate doesnt really have to care about this. Its more the company who takes care of everything.Developer wages in Silicon Valley are already at crazy levels. Which makes poaching local developersan expensive business  hence funding a visa might not seem such a big deal for a startup in desperate need of tech skills. When you see the average salary of somebody who has just got his diploma its incredible. Right out of school he can be paid$100,000. And youre what, 21, 22? says Barbier, discussing Bay Area tech wages.I have a lot of friends who are paid more than $150,000 a year and they have only three years of experience. Its just crazy. I have friends who are paid half a million dollars and they are less than 30 years old. The tech scene is just incredible, and it also shows the need for people to [look further afield to hire developers]At the end of the day it costs you much less money to pay for a visa and a lawyer.The top destinations for developers looking for a job abroad are the U.S., U.K. and Canada, according to Barbier. Asia is also gaining in popularity  which he reckons is down to tech workers wanting to experience a different culture.Of course TechMeAbroad is not just for French engineers  its for any developers wanting to find work aboard. But its French developers who are the most keen to work abroad, according to Barbier.So why are so many French techieslooking for work abroad?Partly its down to issues with the domestic economy, he says, but its also a consequence of how the French culture treats tech workers.Engineers are not really recognized for their skills and what they do in France, he tells TechCrunch. If youre somewhat technical you have to work for somebody whos not technical. And if youre technical you are really at the bottom of the pyramid of the company.In Silicon Valley its really not the case. Its not just a question of salary  and usually its not the number one reason why French people want to come to the U.S. Its more because theyre skills are recognized, their work is recognized, people say thank you. Here if youre an engineer youre a small super star. In France youre just nothing. Recognition is the number one reason.