TechCrunch is holding a Mini-Meetup During Mobile World Congress, Feb. 24. Please add your email hereto get news about the TechCrunch Meetup or to apply to pitch. Grab tickets here.Therell be a chance to pitch TechCrunch writers as part of our pitch-off, featuring assembled investors. Winners will get free tickets to Disrupt New York. But we could use more sponsors to cover costs.Sponsors will get the chance to say hi to the meetup and meet TechCrunch writers (although there is no guarantee of coverage). They will also be noted in our coverage of the event. Sponsors would be responsible for covering costs of the venue, bar and snacks. Interested? Contact our organiser Caroline Spek of Orangeingredients on caroline@orangeingredients.com or at +31 631 757 986.Hope to see you in Barcelona!Sponsors so far:ExoClick, the innovative ad network, is ranked the 4th largest ad network in the world by W3Techs, serving 155+ billion geo-targeted ads a month to a global network of 65,000 web/mobile publisher platforms. ExoClicks proprietary software offers 20+ different ad formats, optimized targeting and behavioural retargeting, access to big data statistics and strategic analysis tools to further improve ROI, data refresh every 60 seconds, day parting and 24/7 customer service. Our platform API allows developers to create their own bespoke software add-ons for programmatic processes on our platform. Visit http://www.exoclick.com for more details.Nubo by Panasonic
Panasonic Corporation is a worldwide leader in the development and engineering of electronic technologies and solutions for customers in residential, non-residential, mobility and personal applications. In 2013, Panasonic acquired Panasonic Cameramanager; an established leader in cloud-based video surveillance. This year Panasonic Cameramanager developed and brought Worlds First 4G Mobile Monitoring Camera to market; Nubo. Nubo is the first consumer product of Panasonic Cameramanager. For more information about Panasonic Nubo, please visit http://www.nubocam.comAptoide
Aptoide is one of the Top 3 largest Android App Stores in the world with more than 97 million unique users in 2015. Developers, OEMs and users choose Aptoide because of the diversity of content, rich features and flexibility. With Aptoide, you can create your own Store and manage it.Rakuten
Rakuten, Inc. (TOKYO: 4755) is one of the worlds leading Internet companies, offering a wide variety of services for consumers and businesses with a focus on e-commerce, finance, and digital content. Since 2012, Rakuten has been ranked among the worlds Top 20 Most Innovative Companies in Forbes magazines annual list. Rakuten is expanding worldwide and currently operates throughout Asia, Europe, the Americas and Oceania. Founded in 1997, Rakuten is headquartered in Tokyo, with nearly 12,000 employees worldwide.Wuaki.tv
Wuaki.tv is a video-on-demand (VOD) streaming service, offering thousands of hours of high quality movies and TV series for subscription (only in Spain) rental and purchase. Wuaki.tvs extensive catalogue includes content from major Hollywood studios including Warner, Disney, Sony, and Fox, production companies such as HBO, and European distributors, giving consumers access to new releases, blockbusters, classic movies and TV series on the device of their choosing. Wuaki.tvs content can be streamed to Internet-connected PCs, laptops, gaming consoles, tablets, iPhones, Chromecast and Smart TVs.Photoslurp
Photoslurp is a visual commerce & marketing platform enabling brands to collect brand-attributed photos of real users using their products across all social networks. The solution quicky finds all brand-attributed UGC in the main social media channels and includes all the tools required to embed these into ecommerce stores, making them shoppable and providing detailed photo analytics as well as evangelist identification.Estimote
Estimote is on a mission to build an operating system for the physical world. We offer hardware and software tools based on Bluetooth beacons to help developers bring location context to their apps. Over 50,000 developers and 65 of Fortune 100 brands use our products to create contextual mobile experiences ranging from retail, to smart office, to hospitality, and far beyond.CornerJob
CornerJob is the leading mobile hiring app based on simplicity, interaction and immediacy, empowering companies through mobile technology. CornerJobs mission is both, for companies to empower them with mobile technology and multiple disrupting features in order for them to find the right candidate in the shortest period of time, and for candidates to find the right job in the same short timeframe. It is basically a job matching platform that enables users to find geolocated job offers, apply to them, chat directly with the recruiters and get an answer in 24 hours. For companies, it represents the perfect recruiting channel in terms of simplicity, interaction and immediacy. It also adds value in the selection process, since it includes a chat feature to minimize timeouts.CornerJob is a startup founded by Antai Venture Builder and is therefore part of the Southern Europes leading digital ecosystem with headquarters in Barcelona. The same digital ecosystem that founded other successful ventures like Wallapop, Glovo (JustBell), Deliberry, BePretty, Stampydoo, Shopery or Elcodi, among others.