Q: What do you get when youcombinethe swipe-to-like mechanism, popularized by dating app Tinder, with a wealthof potential equity crowdfunding investment opportunities?A: anaggregator-sorter app called Off3r, thats launched in the U.K. today (on iOS and Android)  promising to applyTinderishthumb grease toequity crowdfunding investment campaigns towiden thedeal flow funnel.The aggregator apppulls in campaign content from multipleequity crowdfunding platforms at launch, includingCrowdcube, Seedrs, Angel List U.K., Angels Den, Crowdfunder, Funding Tree and Investing Zone, letting investors maximize their exposure to businessesthey mightwant to backwithin a single interface, whilealsoapplying anaddictive, Tinder-style snap-decision sorting mechanism.Off3risreally just a way of starring an investment opportunitythat looks interesting for proper perusal later. So whether it ends up saving time or maximizing deal flow efficiency is up for debate. But it does offera tweakable one-stop-shop for scanning multiple (U.K.) equity crowdfunding investment opportunities.[Off3r] removes friction, thereby increasing efficiency in deal sourcing, arguesfounder Lex Deak, who is also the founder of global super angels investment club QVentures. It is a useful tool for investors who are currently having to access up to a dozen platforms individually, it is also a nice lightweight channel for entrepreneurs and the wider start-up ecosystem for staying abreast of trends and whats hot.As we grow well be able to offer unsurpassed insight into how groups invest together and which deals are most popular. In the near future it will be the norm to invest in unlisted equities and alternative investments from your smartphone.Investorswanting to put money into a businesstheyve found via Off3r are redirected to the relevant platform.The app doesnt currently have a business model of its own, but if usage scales Deak says itwill be looking to take a cut ofany transactions it generates. He says development thus far has primarily been bootstrappedbythe management team.As our numbers grow and we include a wider variety of alternative instruments, such as loans and property deals, we will charge a small percentage on transactions, he says. Were working on including tailored content for users in relation to their investment preferences which may open up an additional stream. Lastly we are collecting insightful data on the alternative finance sector, we will always make the majority of this data freely available but there may be a case for a cost for bespoke reports in the future.Initially Off3r is U.K. only but the plan is to open it up to Europe and further afield, later this year. The first version of the app offers only minimal filters so users can select which platforms theyd like to see deals from and customize how often theyd like to be notified of new deals. Deak says the next version of the app willincludes more advanced notifications so users can geta push notification when a liked deal reaches a certain percentage of funding.Edit note: Since launch, thename of the startuphas been changed from Tendr to Off3rfollowingcopyright infringement action by a wedding list business that was already usingthe name. This article has been updated to reflect the change