Earlier this month, Tesla Motors recalled 2,700 Model X cars to fix a third-row seat latch that could allow the seat to fold forward during a collision.But owners of the $138,000 sport utility vehiclewhose many features includefalcon-wing doors, a 200-plus-mile battery range and proximity sensors that prevent itfrom coming into contact with other cars  are being confronted with more immediately irksome issues, including car doors that suddenly wont shut and windows that wont close.The WSJ reported on the issue yesterday, spotlighting several Model X owners whove been taken aback by unexpected malfunctions, including one customer whosefalcon-wing doors wouldnt open as she prepared to drive her childrens carpool to school. Its a bummer, she told the outlet. You spent all this money. . .and the doors wont open.Consumer Reports also published a lengthy pieceyesterday about unhappy customers, including Michael Karpf, a 75-year-old retiree who picked up his Model X from Teslas Fremont, Ca., factory earlier this month, only to be facedwith astring of problems with the car. Among them: falcon wing doors that wouldnt close and proximity sensors that failed to sense an overhang, allowing the doors to banginto it. Karpf also said thatthe huge infotainment screen in his Model X has repeatedly frozen.A company spokespersonsent us a statement about the glitches earlier, writing: We are committed to making the worlds most reliable cars. While we have seen some issues with early Model X builds, the issues are not widespread, and we are working closely with each owner to respond quickly and proactively to address any problems. We will continue to do so until each customer is fully satisfied. This commitment is one of the reasons why 98% of our customers say they will buy another Tesla as their next car.If the company could work even faster,venture capitalist Byron Deeter of Bessemer Venture Partners would probably appreciate it. He tells us hes been having usabilityproblems for some time, jokingly referring to them as a series of first-world issues.My @TeslaMotors X is freaking out too! Driver door & passenger windows wont close & emergency brake goes off when backing up. #softwarefail Byron Deeter (@bdeeter) April 20, 2016Deeter says the problemswere minor to start. There were issues with autopilot [not working exactly as advertised] and the driver-side door not opening when you walked up to it.Given the cars many ongoing enhancements, Deeter looked at them as little glitches, normal growing pains.Those pains worsened last week, however. By then, the driver-side door wouldnt open at all, and neither would the cars falcon-wing doors on the drivers side. (Deeter and his family have been entering through the cars passenger side and sliding across.)By this past Monday night,not only could Deeter not open his car door, but it wouldnt close. I could manually pull it closed, but it wouldnt latch. In fact, after trying numerous approaches and trying to work through the cars software controls, Deeter found himself driving to a board meeting with one hand on the steering wheel and one holding shut the driver-side door. It wasnt terribly smart,but I didnt have time to call an Uber.Then things gotworse. This morning, says Deeter, his door wouldnt open. The cars driver-side window wouldnt close. And far worse, when he tried reversing out of his driveway despite these things, the cars emergency brake sprang into action every six feet or so. Id put it in park, backit up, then the car would be brought to a stop.The car is now in his garage. Ill deal with it later, he says with a laugh.Deeter is a software fanatic whos largely willing to put up with the issues that come with being an early adopter (though he suggests he has sent some emails to Tesla that have yet to receive a response). Im a believer that tech is the path forward, and Im quite looking forward to autonomous vehicles, he tells us.Still, he notes, putting up with a glitch with a new entertainment device is one thing; itsa rather different story when the newest gadget to fail you is your car.Its definitely a reminder that quality control with human mobility and safety is critical, says Deeter. In this case, Tesla did push out some software and maybe some hardware that wasnt quite ready for prime time.