You almost certainly associate Tesla with cars  very cool cars  but the company has an even grander vision beyond that. Today, CEO and founder Elon Musk unveiled Tesla Energy  a new business arm that is focused onending our dependence on grid power and switching instead to solar energy.The first Tesla Energy product is Powerwall Home Battery, a stationary battery that can power a household without requiringthe grid. The battery isrechargeable lithium-ion  it uses Teslas existing battery tech  and can be fixed to a wall,removing much of the existing complexity around using a local power source.The issue with existing batteries is that they suck, Musk said in a press conference announcing Tesla Energy. They are expensive, unreliable and bad in every way.Teslas solution, he said, is different.For one thing, the companys batteriescost $3,500 for 10kWh and $3,000 for 7kWh  add yoursnarky Apple Watch price comparison here. They are open for pre-orders in the U.S. now; the first orders will be dispatched in late summer.Like regular batteries, they can be used together up to nine can be stacked up together to create a strong and reliable power source. Musk saidhe believes they can helppeople in emerging markets or remote locations leapfrog the need for existing power systems, in a similar way that mobile phones have become more important than landlines in remote parts of the world.A Tesla car is (sadly) not included with your purchaseThe Tesla Powerwallcharges using solar power, but it also integrates with the grid to harness excess power and give customers the flexibility to draw energy from their own reserve. The batteries recharge in a smart way, saving money by picking low-rate periods when electricity is cheapest. They store solar energy for later, for example overnight, and can act as a back-up in the event of a power outage.Removing dirty energy is an ambitious plan  much like space travel  but Musk believes it can be done.Heexplained that160 million battery packs could transition power usage in theU.S. to renewable energy, while 900 millionunits could shift the entire worlds energy needs. Then there is the potential to make the worlds cars run on clean energy.This is within the power of humanity to do, Musk said. It is not impossible, it is something that we can do. But theres going to [need to] be other companies involved.Musk added that Tesla will continue its policy of open-sourcing patents to help make that happen.Contrary to most companies these days, Teslas press conference  which ran entirely on solar energy  was direct and to the point with littlehyperbole.Musk has made electric cars a (stylish) reality, and is pioneering space exploration with SpaceX. Tesla Energy is another concept which, though beyond the realm of most peoples understanding, has potentially huge consequences if Tesla can execute as Musk believes it can.