
Edith Yeung is a partner at 500 Mobile Collective.In February 2011, I visited my friend Bill Huang who worked for Tencent in Shenzhen. Bill was telling me about their new messaging app, called WeChat, that had just launched. At the time, I had been using WhatsApp for more than a year. I asked Bill why they would build a copycat. His reply? He simply insisted that I download the app and take it for a spin.That night, I went home to Hong Kong and installed it on my moms iPad. To my surprise, she got it right away she still couldnt figure out how to turn off her iPad, but she could send me a smiley face. I knew WeChat was onto something big.Since then, WeChat has grown dramatically. The app has not only changed how my mother communicates, but has ingrained itself into the lives of the 570 million peoplewho logged in on a daily basis in September 2015. To showcase WeChats ubiquity: Penetration rates in all tier-one Chinese cities (10+ million population) are above 90 percent of the population.WeChat has a depth of engagement that most other apps cannot match because ofthe breadth of social features it offers  from Moments, for sharing news and links, high-quality video and audio chat (users generate 540 years of video/voice every day), to stickers and gaming (15 percent of users play 10 minutes of games per day). These features dont simply promote transactional messages, but rather forms of self-expression.This engagement allows WeChat to experiment and become a platform for all sorts of new messaging or payment-based features. Many people outside of China fail to realize the breadth of use cases and verticals that WeChat now spans, from e-commerce, to transportation, to financial services.WeChats amazing social (and now payments, too) experience has morphed it into a global platform, with people using it to find jobs in South Africa, to raise money for their nonprofit in California, to sell real estate in Manhattan and to find a date in South Asia.To show the many touch points WeChat now owns across a users daily life, here are some of the successful-but-under-the-radar use cases that go beyond in-app games and social posts.WeChat launched its money payments service in 2013, smartly modeling it off the thousand-year-old Chinese tradition of gifting money in red envelopes. Between 2014 and 2015, WeChat users sentmore than1 billion red envelopes to one another on the app  50 times more than the year before. 50 million users are now sending red envelopes every day, and that number will likely double again by early next year. The trump card for WeChat payments is that you dont need to add a contact to pay them  youuse a simple QR code.Users can book taxis directly in WeChat through rideshare services like Didi Kuaidi in China or EasyTaxi in Singapore. Users can see the drivers details and location, as well as communicate with the driver within WeChat. At the end of the trip, users can easily pay for the ride through a WeChat payment.Chinese residents can now use WeChat for a multitude of bill and payment options that go beyond what we see in the West  orany messaging app, for that matter. In some cities, people can now pay for their water, electricity, gas, broadband, mobile, tax and credit card bills through a service account on WeChat.As of August 2014, there aremore than5 million public and service accounts on WeChat. Users also can go into a store, scan a products barcode within WeChat andget a list of the Chinese e-commerce sites that stock the product in question. With just a few clicks, you could be saving money by buying the item online. Users also canbuy train and movie tickets through WeChat, or top off their phone credits instead of going to the market to buy a card.Users and brands can easily set up their own shops and start selling on WeChat using Weidian (English name: YouShop). Weidians mobile commerce platform is based on WeChats social relationships and opens up peer-to-peer selling on a massive scale, as well as a portal for bigger brands.JD.com was one of the first retail giants to set up a shopping channel on WeChat, and now nearly 70 percent of JD.com users look for recommended products through WeChat. Brands will leverage public accounts and pages to recommend products through WeChat and inform them about promotional activities. This is how Tencent is competing with Alibaba.Brands are also using WeChat a lot like how Twitter is used in the West: to engage customers in conversation before, during and after a sale. Retail workers are communicating with customers through their WeChat accounts as one of the best channels to establish a rapport and make sure the customer is satisfied.One feature that was just launched in the most recent WeChat update is multi-party video chat. WeChats codecs and Chinas networks are now good enough to host impressive-quality mobile video; frankly, its a much better experience than Skype. Watch for video to continue to be a big source of growth for the messaging app.WeChat isinvolved in starting a private bank called WeBank, which Tencent invested in and is the biggest shareholder (30 percent). WeBank promises to introduce a camera-based facial recognition system for the approval of bank loans, andoffer the option of linking your WeChat account to a standard bank card.With so many daily active users, WeChat is also a firehose for nonprofit donations. The donation function supports organizations like UNICEF and San Francisco-based Watsi. Prior to partnering with WeChat/Tencent, Watsi had 14,000 total individual donors. In two months, WeChat added 34,000 Chinese donors to that tally, helping fund healthcare for people around the world. Most are micro-donations, at around $.25 on average, but those numbers add up quickly.And then there are some really out-of-the-box uses casesWeChat for Small Jobs: Earlier this year, WeChat invested in M4JAM (Money For Jam), a South Africa-based mobile job service that connects to WeChat. M4JAM uses WeChat to push small jobs out to their community of users, who respond via their phone to apply/accept jobs.WeChat for Real Estate: Last year a New York-based real estate agent received a message on WeChat from a Chinese buyer who wanted information about a residential building in Manhattan. The agent sent the Chinese buyer some pictures and some details about the neighborhood. The next day, after speaking on the phone, the agent closed the $13 million deal.WeChat for Dating: WeChats Look Around feature allows users to scan and link up with users within a 3 kilometer radius. The feature is now being used in some countries to help people find dates.All of this is to show that WeChat, like Facebook before it, is becoming a hub for much more than just socializing  and is quickly building a network of potentially massive businesses. Tencent is successfully unlocking a new mobile economy that touches users needs from the moment they wake up and check their social feed, to when they pay for their lunch, to when they go out on a date and buy a movie ticket in the evening.This is the World of WeChat. And its just getting started.