
Gary Schall is partner at WilmerHale and represents entrepreneurs, emerging companies and venture capital funds.John Hobgood is an IP partner at  WilmerHale whose practice is built on patent prosecution and client counseling.Whats a tech startups most valuable asset? Its not the seed money. Its not the workspace. And its definitely not the espresso machine or Ping Pong table.The priceless heart of a promising startup is its intellectual property (IP)  the disruptive idea, the brilliant invention, the genius breakthrough. This hot commodity needs to be protected by patents, copyrights and/or trademarks, but these arent enough.Without some additional safeguards in place, IP can be fiendishly fickle, walking off with a disgruntled departing founder or triggering disputes that can send a promising business into a death spiral.To best protect your startups most precious asset, its critical to have all founders, employees and anyone involved in creating the idea sign over their intellectual property rights to the startup itself. The right time to do this is always now the worst time is always later. But if you need some encouragement to inspire you to take action, here are some other times that make good sense.Have new hires ink an agreement with a present assignment clause that assigns everything they invent or create, whether its patentable or not, to the company, effective on their date of hire. Make sure the agreement includes a further assurances clause, in which the employee agrees to cooperate in the future, if needed, to assist with showing that the startup owns the IP. To top it off, the agreement should include confidentiality obligations, permitting them to use or reveal confidential information only for the startups benefit.To make a contract valid, you must give something to the other party in exchange for a signature. Equity is fine, but its not essential, and the payment doesnt have to be large. The classic example cited in law school contracts classes is a peppercorn.Youve just incorporated and the team is enthusiastic and motivated. This is the ideal time to have everyone assign IP rights to the company and document whos come up with which business concepts. If you have better things to do, repeat these three little words: The Winklevoss twins. Remember the $65 million settlement paid to Mark Zuckerbergs former Harvard classmates to settle a dispute over who came up with the idea for Facebook? Enough said.Youll know when things turn sour before the employee suspects they are on the chopping block. If they have never completed paperwork assigning IP rights to the company, have them do it before you begin the termination process. Otherwise, they may flat-out refuse, or embroil the company in costly negotiations and make oppressive demands.We watched a client hit a snag when it wanted to lay off a number of its workers. Because the client had been spun-off from another company, some long-time employees had never been asked to assign their IP rights to the new company. The founders took our advice and delayed announcing their reduction in force until every employee had an assignment on file.We thought it would be pretty unlikely that a founder would walk away from a promising venture to backpack through South America or surf in Fiji. But weve seen it happen. A startup contacted us after its CTO went AWOL. The guy had relocated to Indonesia without signing over his IP rights. The other founders wanted to know if this was a problem. It is. That missing signature can throw a wrench in closing on a financing.Fortunately, the companys CEO was able to trackdown the CTO through social connections but not everyone is so lucky. In the end, the CTO was happy to sign the paperwork, but the founders certainly had some stressful weeks until then.When filing a patent application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, have every inventor assign all rights to the invention and any and all resulting patent applications to the company. This assignment becomes a matter of public record, so its easy to see whether the company owns the rights to its intellectual property. Failure to do this is a red flag for investors, who will check to make sure it has been done.We dont want to stereotype, but weve found that its often the tech guys who are more hesitant than the business guys about signing over their IP rights to the company. Weve been in several meetings with founders where the hard-core tech person balks. We say, How important is owning the IP to you? If its critical, maybe you shouldnt go into business together. Theres nothing wrong with that decision; honestly, its better to know early on where you stand than to watch VCs reject your request for funding.Weve worked with several groups of founders who opted to let their tech whiz hold onto the IP hed created and grow organically and slowly rather than pursue outside money. Thats not for everyone, but for some teams, its the right way to go.If the tech whiz relents and agrees to assign, remember that an assignment is a contract, so you have to give some something in exchange.While employment alone is often enough, if a founder wantsextra insurance, the company can pay  it doesnt have to be much. A cancelled check and an inked set of documents are belt and suspenders  irrefutable evidence  that the startup holds all the IP rights it needs to move forward.True story: A startup we know watched helplessly as a $5 million Series A round of financing slipped through its fingers because a key founder hadnt signed over his IP rights to the company. Sure, he was willing to do it  in exchange for a sizable payment. The VCs smelled trouble, and they walked. That was the beginning of the young companys demise. For exactly this reason, investors often make funding contingent on having all rights to IP signed over to the company.Another set of founders of a medical device company knew they needed to get their IP house in order, but  as is often the case with startups  other pressing needs took priority. We encouraged them to gather the necessary signatures, and they assured us theyd get on it. That was two years ago;lets just say theyre still looking for funding.You dont ever want to have to tell your board of directors, Our key inventor left a month ago, and those patents we thought were assigned to the company, well, they werent. If you have a rigorous process in place from Day One to protect your vital intellectual property, youre making it easy for investors to give you money.