
Kristina Kerr Bergman is a principal at Ignition Partners. You might be about to see companieslike Facebook, Google and many otherswhose business models depend on using their customers data, scramble in the wake of a case currently in front of the U.S. Supreme Court.Thomas Robins, a Virginia man, is alleging Spokeo, Inc., a people-search website, had inaccurate (albeit more flattering) information listed about him on their site. AsThe Wall Street Journal noted, the lawsuit alleges violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a federal law that regulates credits [sic] bureaus and sets standards over how consumer credit information is collected, stored and shared.Each violation of federal law can result in up to a $1,000 fine per instance. If the U.S. Supreme Court rules this violation can take class action status, this could mean violations become extremely expensive.The bigger problem is that its not just social networks that collect, process and transfer peoples data. Its every company in every industry that uses peoples data to better market to them, deliver better services or evenprovide customer support. Some of the most confounding issues for these companies are actually the result of business practices that are not in any way nefarious or annoying:Countries and economic areas, such as the EU, are continually crafting new laws relating to data privacy and data sovereignty. Staying on top of those ever-changing laws and adapting technology to comply with those laws is increasingly difficult. For instance, the ECJ has ruled that a person now has the right to be forgotten, meaning companies may be required by law to delete someones data if they so request. Google was recently told by the Commission Nationale de lInformatique et des Liberts (CNIL), Frances main data protection authority, that Google had 15 days, as of June 13, 2015, to apply the EUs right to be forgotten laws  not just on French (.fr) sites, but all sites worldwide.The British Columbia Court of Appeal in Canada similarly ordered Google to remove content from its sites globally because content violated Canadian laws. This extraterritorial application of laws has wide sweeping impact on e-commerce, privacy, defamation and freedom of information. But, what does it mean to be forgotten? Is it enough to be forgotten at a single point in time, but collection of data about you from that point forward is okay? What about data collection for the purposes of providing customer support? These laws are unclear and a constantly moving target.When it comes to issues around use of private data for law enforcement, there are some international agreements taking shape. The U.S. and the EU are in talks about a Data Protection Umbrella Agreement that is expected to cover issues such as bulk collection of data by law enforcement agencies which would be limited to specific purposes as well as reduce data retention limits, and give EU citizens a right of judicial redress in the U.S. if they suspect their personal data is being misused.Every country around the world is starting to define and redefine laws about how they want to handle data privacy, because data privacy is no longer just a legal issue, its a political, technology and business issue, as well.In this arena, uniquely, technology is lagging policy. Countries are creating laws more quickly than companies can adapt their software to deal with those changes, particularly if they use big data technology or cloud environments.Here are a few tips for what companies can do to deal with rapidly evolving data privacy laws:The challenges surrounding data privacy are becoming more severe as more things become connected to the Internet, such as our cars, homes, offices, watches and clothing. Companies collecting data about our personal devices could be sending that data all over the world. Because of this, I expect laws will become stricter, more plentiful and increasingly complicated over the next few years.Complying with each countrys shifting laws will be a full-time job for most companies, not to mention potentially extremely costly. The old days of being able to buy, aggregate, analyze and infer data about customers without repercussions are gone. Companies need to be able to stay on top of data privacy laws and respond quickly and effectively to this rapidly changing legal environment.