May is right around the corner, and soon thousands of innovators, investors and entrepreneurs will make their way to Brooklyn for TechCrunch Disrupt NY.While the main event may be the conference that runs from May 9-11, one of our favorite parts of Disrupt is the Hackathon, whichtakes place the weekend before. Were thrilled to announce that the second wave of free tickets to the Hackathon are now available, and you can snag your tickets here.As always, tickets are given out on a first-come, first-served basis, so youll need to act quickly if you want to get in on the Hackathon action.The Hackathon startsat 12:30 p.m. ET on Saturday, May 7, with networking and the forming of the Hackathon teams. On Sunday, after a grueling 20 or so hours of hacking and coding, teams will have just 60 seconds to present their projects to a panel of judges on the Disrupt stage. In addition to the satisfaction of building something great, those teams have the opportunity to win tickets to Disrupt NY, as well as a $5,000 grand prize and several gadgets, toys and other monetary prizes from our sponsors. Each team thatscores athree or higher will win two free Disrupt tickets, where theyll get to attend the interviews and fireside chats with our incredible lineup of speakers, check out allthe startups on display in Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, watch companies competing inStartup Battlefield and hobnob with conference attendees at allthe parties and after-parties. The Hackathon is a great place for both hardware and software companies. Software company Witness won the Hackathon at Disrupt NY 2015and hardware company Shower With Friends won the event at Disrupt SF in 2014. So bring whatever great idea you have and spend the weekend bringing it that much closer to reality.We cant wait to see what you come up with, but youll need a ticket to participate. You can snag a ticket to the Hackathon here.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.