
Tallat Mahmood is founder and managing director of SkyPanther Capital and founder of Funding Your Tech Startup.Euphoric reaction to superstar tech businesses is rampant  so much so that the techindustryis in denial aboutlooming threats. The tech industry is in a bubble, and there are sufficient indicators for thosewilling to open their eyes. Rearing unicorns, however,is a distracting fascination.Raising funding fortechstartups has never been so easy. Some of this flood of money has been because of mutual funds and hedge funds, including Fidelity, T. Rowe Price and Tiger Global Management. This is altering not only the funding landscape fortechstartups,butalso valuation expectations.There are many concerns that valuations for businesses are confounding rationale. Entrepreneurs and their investors are deviating from more traditional valuation and performance metrics to moreunconventional ones. Another cause cited for increasing valuations is thetrendof protections for late investors that cause valuations to inflate further. The combination of a number of these factors has put the sector into a state of artificial valuations.Meanwhile, the companies themselves are burning throughcash like there is no tomorrow. Throwing money at marketing, overheads and, in particular, remuneration has become the accepted investment strategy for startup growth. All this does isperpetuate the vicious cycle of raising more money and spending more money. For the amounts that some of these businesses have raised, the jury is still out onactualprofitability.CB Insightspublishes information on unicorns (companies with a valuation above $1 billion), which shows that access to the club has become increasingly less exclusive in the last couple of years. The chart below shows that the number of companies valued at $1 billion or above in 2014 exceeded previous years by quite some margin (47 unicorns joined the club in 2014 vs. 7 and 8 in 2012 and 2013, respectively). In addition, for the first 5 months of 2015, this trend shows no signs of abating (32 new unicorns as of June 1, 2015).Source: CB Insights; data analyzed by Funding Your Tech Startup In the face of these trends, a small group of well-respected and influential individuals are voicing their concern. They are reflecting on what happened in the last dot-com bustandidentifying fallacies in the current unsustainable modus operandi. These relatively lonely voices aredifficult to ignore. They include established successful entrepreneurs, respected VC and hedge fund investors, economists and CEOs who are riding their very own unicorns.Mark Cuban is scathing in his personalblog, arguing that thistechbubbleis worse than that of 2000,because, he states, that unlike in 2000, this time the bubblecomes from private investors, including angel investors and crowd funders. The problem for these investors is there is no liquidity in their investments, and were currently in a market with no valuations and no liquidity. He was one of the fortunate ones who exited his company, Broadcast.com, just before the 2000 boom,netting $5 billion.Buthe saw others around him not so lucky then, and fears the same this time around.A number of high-profile investors have come out and said what their peers all secretly must know. Responding to concerns raised by Bill Gurley (Benchmark) and Fred Wilson (Union Square Ventures), Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz expressed his thoughts in an18-tweet tirade. Andreessen agrees with Gurley and Wilson in that high cash burn in startups is the cause of spiralling valuations and underperformance; the availability of capital is hampering common sense.As Wilson emphasizes, At some point you have to build a real business, generate real profits, sustain the company without the largess of investors capital, and start producing value the old fashioned way. Gurley, a stalwart investor, puts the discussion into context bysayingWere in a riskbubble  were taking on  a level of risk that weve never taken on before in the history of Silicon Valley startups.Thetechbubblehas resulted in unconventional investors, such as hedge funds,in privately owned startups. David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital Inc. stated that although he is bullish on thetechsector, he believes he has identified a number of momentum technology stocks that have reached prices beyond any normal sense of valuation, andthat they have shorted many of themin what they call thebubblebasket.Meanwhile, Noble Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller, who previously warned about both the dot-com and housing bubbles,suspects the recent equity valuation increases are morebecause offear thanexuberance. Shiller believes that compared with history, US stocks are overvalued. He says, one way to assess this is by looking at the CAPE (cyclically adjusted P/E) ratio  defined as the real stock price (using the S&P Composite Stock Price Index deflated by CPI) divided by the ten-year average of real earnings per share.Shiller says this has been a good predictor of subsequent stock market returns, especially over the long run. The CAPE ratio has recently been around 27, which is quite high by US historical standards. The only other times it is has been that high or higher were in 1929, 2000, and 2007 all moments before market crashes.Perhaps the most surprising contributor to the debate on a looming tech bubbleis Evan Spiegel, CEO of Snapchat. Founded in 2011, Spiegels company is a certified unicorn, with a valuation in excess of $15 billion. Spiegel believes that years of near-zero interest rates have created an assetbubblethat has led people to make riskier investments than they otherwise would. He added that a correction was inevitable.To shed light on how close we may be to thetechbubblebursting, it is worthwhile trying to understand what determines being in abubble. Typically, this refers to a situation where the price of an asset exceeds by a large margin its fundamental value.In his 1986 bookStabilizing an Unstable Economy, economist HymanMinskys theory of financial instability attracted a great deal of attention, and gathered an increasing number of adherents following the crisis of 2008-09. Minsky identified five stages that culminate in abubble, as described in thisForbes article: displacement, boom, euphoria, profit taking, and panic.Uberis an enviable company for much of what it has achieved, and the team is to be commendedfor how they have grown this business, as well astheir previous successes. However, it serves as a good example to illustrate the dynamics of thetech bubble.Displacement: Investors excitement with a new paradigm, such as advances in technology or historically low interest rates.The explosion of the sharing economy has resulted in companies such as Uber, Lyft and Airbnb growing exponentially in recent years by taking advantage of this new mode of operation.Boom: Prices rise slowly at first,butthen gain momentum as more participants enter the market. Fear of missing out (FOMO) attracts even more participants. Consequently, publicity for the asset class in question increases.Reviewing investment rounds for Uber since 2010 when they completed their seed round showsa large variety of investorswanting a piece of the action, perhaps in part due to a fear of missing out on the golden goose. The introduction of hedge funds and investment banks funding the business can also be seen, which underlines the facelift happening in this sector.Euphoria: Asset prices increase exponentially; there is little rationale evident in decision making. During this phase, new valuation measures and metrics are touted to justify the unrelenting rise of asset prices.Ubersincreased valuation between fundingrounds symbolizes the euphoria around the business. The chart below shows the evolution of Ubers pre-money valuation over the last number of funding rounds.Source: CB Insights; data analyzed by Funding Your Tech StartupAlthough the pace of revenue growth at Uber is astounding (doubling approximately every 12 months at the moment),profitability is less certain. Profitability margins should increase over time as recognition and saturation are achieved in newer markets,butit is difficult to ignore the regulatory burdens andlawsuits the business is facing,which could steer it off course.Profit taking: The few that have identified whats going on are making their profit by selling their positions. This is the right time to exit,butis not seen by the majority.This is the next indicator on the horizon that will underline that we are in atechbubble,and that it is about toburst. The catalyst for profit taking could be regulatory strains or excessive cash consumption that isnt reflected by profitability gains in startups. Savvy investors will take the opportunity to exit while valuations are still high. The exits may well be too late for investors who are further behind on the FOMO curve or new types of investors who dont appreciate that the market has moved.Panic: By now its too late and asset prices collapse as rapidly as they once increased. With everyone trying to cash in realizing the situation, supply outstrips demand and many face big losses.Watch this space for the unfortunately impending examples.The fact that we are in atechbubbleis in no doubt. The fact that thebubbleis about toburst,however, is not something the sector wants to wake up to.The good times the sector is enjoying are becoming increasingly artificial. The tech startup space at the moment resembles the story of the emperor with no clothes. It remains for a few established, reasoned voices to persist with their concerns so the majority will finally listen.