
Daniel Ruch is CEO of Rocketrip.A 25-year-old named Ben Schlappig was in the news recently because he traveled aroundtheworld for an entire year  for free. People like Schlappig outsmart loyaltyprograms allthetime, racking up frequent flyer and hotel reward points in mind-boggling volumes. And while this might sound neat,your businessis probably subsidizing his travel.For every travel hacker like Schlappig who flies free, dozens of businesses overspend on every flight, hotel and rental car. Indeed,loyaltyprograms are designed to make business travelers lesscost sensitive, which creates a conflict of interest, because CFOs and travel managers obviously want to reduce expenses.This is a big problem for tech startups, especially those with growing sales and implementation teams.Travel is typically a companys third largest expense after rent and salaries. And while there seems to be more cash than water flowing in Silicon Valley, this will be short-lived.As Marc Andreessen warned inone of his famous Twitter storms, New founders in last 10 years have ONLY been in environment where money is always easy to raise at higher valuations. THAT WILL NOT LAST  Whenthemarket turns, and it will turn, we will find out who has been swimming without trunks on: many high burn rate cos will VAPORIZE.To avoid vaporizing, startups are turning tothesharingeconomyto reduce travel costs. Airbnb, Uber, Lyft, RelayRides, etc. almost always cost less than their traditional competitors (though they can pose compliance issues, as Ivediscussed previously).At my company Rocketrip, we find that travelers now choose Airbnb seven percent ofthetime, which is asizeableshareif you think of Airbnb as one hotel. Theirprogram for businessesgrew 700 percent inthe last year alone.However, unlike allthehotel groups, airlines and rental car companies that take a lions share of the$310 billionthat U.S. businesses spend on travel, Airbnb and its kindontoffer rewards programs. Why would they? With Airbnbs revenueprojected to climb 55 percent, from $423 million last year to $675 million in 2015, there is no need to woo guests.Yet travel managers place a lot of weight in rewards programs. TheGlobal Business Travel Associationreportsthat Two-thirds (66 percent) of Corporate Travel Managers agree hotelloyaltyprograms play at least a slightly important role in their negotiations with hotels and one in five admit they play a very important or extremely important role.Loyaltyprograms can increase compliance with company travel policy and drive employees to preferred vendors (i.e., those with whichthecompany has negotiated rates and perks).Travel managers are right: Some perks matter to road warriors. VIPairport lounges, free room or cabin upgrades, dedicated customer service, priority security lines and late checkout do improvethequality of life ontheroad.Thus, rewards programs should give hotels and airlines an edge againstthesharingeconomy. However, theres good news for Airbnb and a future Uber of commercial airplanes  airlines and hotels are making rewards programslessattractive for travelers andmoreexpensive for businesses.Back in 2013, ThePoints Guyreportedthat allthemajor hotel chains (Starwood, Marriot, Hilton, Hyatt, etc.) had devalued their rewards programs, meaning travelers had to spend more atthehotel or spend more with point-bearing credit cards before earning free nights.Hilton, for instance, had raised thepoints-per-night on some hotelsby as much as 90 percent. Thebest part:ThePoints Guy wrotethepiece from a two-bedroom Los Angeles bungalow that he rented either on Airbnb or VRBO (he didnt specify which) for less than a small standard room atone of theelite chains.The savings were worth more thantheprogress hed make towards elite status and free nights.Most oftheairlines, too, have debased their rewards programs. Frequent-flyer earnings used to be based onthedistance and frequency of travel.Themore you flew,themore you earned. This allowed road warriors to rack up points and earn elite status,even when they picked inexpensive flights.Theincentive to beloyalwas strong becausetheexperience on airlines wasalwaysthesame, unless they had elite status.Unfortunately for businesses, most airlines have switched to a revenue-based system, just likethehotels. This means that the moreyou spend,themore points you earn;theamount of flying doesnt matter.Thesalesperson who travels from San Francisco to New York weekly at $350 a pop earns fewer miles in one month than someone who books one round-trip flight from Chicago to Moscow at $1,500, even thoughthesalesperson commutes more than doublethe distance.Airlines have also added more levels of elite status, while raising minimum eligibility requirements to reduce whatTheNew York Timesreporter Josh Barro calls elite bloat.As Delta put it,When everyones an elite flier, no one is.If road warriors want to reachthetop tiers of elite status, their incentive is to book more expensive flightstheexactoppositeof what CFOs and travel managers want.Airlines are effectively saying, Max out your travel budget if you want to go Platinum. And, unlike inthepast when every reward flight was worth a flat amount of points, reward flights are now dynamically priced based on demand and dollar cost. Points are worth whatever airlines say theyre worth today.Considerthefull situation: All companies, and startups in particular, need to rein in travel costs. Free-flowing venture capital is going to disappear. But, airline and hotel rewards programs give travelers an incentive to spend as much as possible on the companys dime, because they need more points to get elite status, free hotel nights and free flights.Atthesame time, a lot of business people (Millennials, in particular) have shifted spending from hotel chains to Airbnb because they get a better experience at a better value, just likeThePoints Guy did in LA.Two-thirds of travel managers deem rewards programs important, yet Airbnbhas no rewards programand is still winning over business people in droves. Hotel rewards programs just arent good enough to keep travelers away from Airbnb.In other words,thesharingeconomyis disruptingtheconcept ofloyalty. There is no incentive to beloyalto a hotel group if Airbnb can get you a cheaper room in a better location with better amenities.Ironically, a road warrior could save his company money, travel more comfortablyand stillamass free hotel nights by charging all his Airbnb stays to a Hilton credit card. Sharing economy travelers can still find ways to accrue points and perks.However, intheairline arena, where alltheplayers offer similar products,loyaltyprograms will be more resilient  at least until someone createstheUber of commercial airplanes. Companies will only be able to reduce flight expenses if they make it more attractive for employees to save money than to book top-dollar flights inthepursuit of elite status perks.Overall, turbulence inthetravel and hospitality industry presents opportunities. Totheextent that someone like Ben Schlappig can hack airline rewards programs, I think companies can hack travel management to provide better perks at a lower cost to the company.Theairlines, hotels and rental car companies seem insensitive to how muchthecurrent reward structure hurts their customers bottom line.Sharing economybusinesses will force them to rethink this approach toloyalty. Elite status and saving money shouldnt be mutually exclusive.