
Srinivas Nidugondi is the head of mobile financial solutions at Mahindra ComvivaThe many success and failures of mobile payments and related solutions driveshome a very simple fact: One mobile-based financial solution will not cater to all markets.After all, how can it? The mobile finance space itself is so vast: you have payments, payment-related services and commerce.Further, the stakeholders themselves; namely the consumer and the business and merchant segments. As if that werentcomplex enough, these categories are further broken down into various strata in the form of a pyramid. Essentially, this implies one can classify a customer as belonging to the bottom or the top of the pyramid.Likewise, a merchant can be categorized as a small, medium or large format. So many classifications would obviously demand an equal number of solutions. And, of course, needless to say, the solutions would have to be customized to suit each market.So, keeping in mind that every global marketplace vastly differs in every possible way, the need of the hour is a no white space strategy. This implies more than dotting the is and crossing the ts. It means being able to provide an appropriate solution to the appropriate target audience.Now, back to the markets. For the sake of simplicity, I will divide them into two categories: developing and developed.The mobile payments market got its first real push from developing markets, because this customer group had very fundamental financial requirements. Using a mobile payments system essentially provided them easy and fast access to their personal accounts. Without such a system in place, theyd still be conducting all financial transactions in cash. However, that was then. Things have come a long way since.For instance, the mobile money services space in Africa is steadily maturing. Of 196 mobile operators, 99 have already launched mobile money services. More importantly, the scope of the service itself has increased tremendously. In Zimbabwe, one such player, EcoCash, made its debut in the mobile money space with the launch of the P2P transfer service. Today, it offers customers a wide range of solutions.These include the Merchant Payment system solution (for the retail payment business) and the EcoCash $ave and the EcoCash Credit services (aimed at bringing micro-savings into the formal financial system). Other interesting initiatives are the salary payments and mobile savings services and the SVA-linked debit card. These launches are aimed at extending the companys reach to businesses and beyond Africas borders as well as driving merchant payments. Enough said?Of course, these companies havent stopped there. Not by a long shot. The next step was launching interoperable mobile services. So, not surprisingly, in June this year, Tanzanias three mobile money heavyweights  Airtel, Tigo and Zantel  signed an interoperability agreement, enablingusers of their respective Airtel Money, Tigo M-Pesa and Zantels EzyPesa services to send money to each other from their handsets. The hopes of over 16 million mobile money customers in Tanzania were pinned on this service.In a space where consumers already have a plethora of choices, such as cards, electronic payments, digital payments and access to digital channels, why would they use a mobile device for financial transactions? To answer this question, I would like to touch upon what I refer to as, re-imagining the consumers purchase behaviour in the context of mobility.Customers have changed, and so should companies. In the good old days, a customer used to walk into a store, select a product, purchase it and walk out. Today, the rules of the game have changed, because the game itself has become so complex.Before walking into a store, the customers now research a product they are interested in, view videos pertaining to it, compare prices and download coupons. In this context, therefore, a company can re-imagine a potential customers purchase journey with the help of mobile-based tools that are context-aware, socially driven, powered by technology, personalized and, most importantly, secure.In this context, mobile is the king, commerce is the queen and context is God. Simply put, a retailer can tap into a customers purchase behaviour and interests based on the trends highlighted in previous transactions. The retailer would then be able to push customized offerings on the customers mobile phone.Another way is location-based offers. This entails detecting a customers presence at a location, in order to push various offers via technologies such as Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacons. Essentially, on the basis of a customers location, I would be able to tell what this person is doing and provide them with specific information that can aid them in their buying or purchasing behaviour.Lets talk about the most powerful tool (arguably) of our age: social networking. Social networks are the way customers are obtaining information from companies and using it to decide what product to purchase. If we were to transpose that into a mobile handset, a retailer can analyze and understand consumers through their consumption of social media to make changes in brand and marketing.Less prosaically, integrating social media with ones purchase journey can help increase visibility, interaction and engagement, not to mention, add a fun element to the process. The bottom line is, the whole experience becomes that much better and different.Of course, throughoutthe entire purchase journey, the technology is merely incidental. Having said that, however, technologies like Near Field Communications (NFC), BLE, Biometrics, QR Codes, and wearables aredisrupting the payments space in a big way.So, retailers would do well to remember to use these mediums to create wow moments for their customers. For example, deploying NFC to ease payments, like what Apple Pay is doing today, or get information through QR codes, or get the right discount voucher through a BLEbeacon  all this will enhance the customers experience. Whats more, the entire experience is put into context.Suddenly, a companyis able to visualize a pattern it can use to aid a customer again and help them not only in the purchase journey but beyond, as well. This would, in all likelihood, encourage the customer to share their experience with their peers.While the aforementioned trends hold a lot of potential and promise, the issue of security is bound to raise its head up sooner than later. Even today, despite the plethora of applications (security-related included) available in the market, customers perceive mobile payments as unsecure, owing to the lack of familiarity with the system.Of course, grappling with complex security mechanisms doesnthelp the cause at all. So, naturally, every organization offering mobile-based payments is focusing on this aspect.If an appropriate solution can be developed to allay a customers fears about security, mobile-based payments would certainly enjoyincreased momentum.The wide gamut of mobile payments includes applications, content, and, most importantly, knowing what a customer wants. The bottom line is simple; all these elements are important parts of the payments game.First and foremost, and lets get this out of the way once and for all-mobile payments arent going anywhere. They are and will continue to be a priority for every stakeholder in the mobile financial services space. Mobile money has moved beyond hype and is establishing itself as a lasting trend.According to a recent report published by The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, consumers are using their mobile phones to make payments in over 130 deployments with a 100 more planned and several new initiatives are being announced each week. If that doesnt indicate growth, nothing does.Moreover, this is a growing market. The mobile phone as a payment technology, will register significant growth over the next five years. As per industry estimates, the growth rate for mobile payments is expected to vary between 350 and 900 million users, generating anywhere between $430 billion and 1 trillion in transaction value by 2015.The retail segment, in particular, is expected to take up this cause enthusiasticallyby adopting a mobile-first strategy, i.e. ensuring that a customers experience on any mobile device (tablets, handsets, phablets, you name it) is nothing short of perfect.Now lets talk about the services themselves. As I mentioned earlier in this piece, mobile payments have risen far above and beyond P2P transfers. This is just the tip of the iceberg; numerous non-financial players have entered the mobile payments market, often with innovative solutions. In fact, mobile network operators like Vodafone, MTN, Orange and airtel have deployed mobile payments services in several countries or have set up joint ventures between them.If that wasnt enough, money transfer operators like Western Union and MoneyGram, as well as card companies like Visa, MasterCard and Amex all have multiple mobile payments initiatives.The big bucks matter, of course, as does the technology used for such payments. For example, NFC is being used in Japan on close to 65 million handsets by 15 million customers initiating 30-50 million transactions per month with 750,000 merchants.If that wasnt enough, several projects have been launched in some 35 countries in Europe, the US and China, but many have a long way to go before reaching critical mass (in terms of market penetration). Google Wallet is one example.Now, lets add another element to this mix: Host Card Emulation. It is here to stay. Very simply put-traditional NFC using SE for contactless proximity payments had too many challenges which HCE has resolved. The tokenization service offered by card schemes would enable financial institutions to launch NFC Wallets by simply working with a mobile wallet platform provider. In fact, I believe that the movement of NFC-based payments toward HCE, which started in 2014, will become more prominent in 2015.Moreover, user experience, context awareness and universality will be the benchmarks by which every mobile money deployment will be judged. The user experience has to be compelling, convenient and cost-effective and the context awareness has to be intelligent and customized. The solution that addresses these best within the time, cost and quality constraints shall succeed.So, while mobile money offers significant business opportunities, it also comes with very specific challenges. Its quite straightforward, really: interoperability.All the mobile money faithful agree that it can boost volumes to dizzying heights. But, naturally, ones own companys business goals become priority and so no player wants to give another even the slightest bit of elbow room, whilst expanding market share. Things are expected to, well, improve somewhat in 2015. Stakeholders are expected to relax their competitive stance and adopt a collaborative approach.And, its already happening. Citing the Tanzania example mentioned before, in November 2014, Airtel Money and Tigo Pesa partnered to enable the very first domestic interoperable mobile financial service in Tanzania.The service allows customers to send and receive money directly between the mobile money accounts of these two service providers. The service simplifies off-net money transfers and enables recipients to transact through the convenience of their own mobile phone without cashing out.Small steps, no doubt, but at least its a start. Butbefore the full potential of interoperability can be leveraged, the various faces of this concept need to be clearly understood, prioritized and then introduced. Tanzania is just the tip of the iceberg. We are likely to see a number of markets jumping onto the interoperability bandwagon.To sum up, 2014 witnessed several changes and innovations in the mobile payment space. Honestly, we can continue to gaze into a crystal ball with regard to whats going to happen in 2015. We may or may not be right. Nevertheless, itll be worthwhile seeing how the next year shapes up for mobile payment space.