
Rob LoCascio is the founder and CEO of LivePerson.Everyone seems to be jumping on the bot bandwagon. Chatbotsare not only being touted as the end of apps, but also the next paradigm in human-computer interaction  and, if you believe the hype, the end of many customer service jobs, too. Butbots are unlikely to live up to these outsized expectations anytime soon.The fact is that the AI technology used to power chatbotssimply isnt mature enough to come close to replacing humans for anything but the most trivial tasks  the same ones that are already well-suited to apps. With expectations set so high, be prepared to see a lot of frustration and disappointment as reality sets in.We increasingly expect brands to adapt to our lifestyles and engage on our terms. That includes embracing messaging as a first-class communications channel. Conversational user interfaces and B2C messaging have the potential to radically evolve consumer interactions, but if brands rush to hand off their customer interactions to algorithms, theyll be making a costly mistake.Conversational interfaces are only as good as the communicator on the other end. Ifbotsare only serving as text-based substitutes for automated phone systems, then were just providing consumers with another channel for frustration. Theyll learn to immediately type the chat equivalent of dialing 0 to get a human. Meanwhile, customer care executives will be disappointed when the promised savings and efficiencies fail to materialize.This is unfortunate, because a negative consumer reaction tobotsthreatens to tarnish the perception of conversational interfaces and B2C messaging as a whole, similar to how 800 numbers have become associated with ineffective IVR systems and long hold times. The medium is the message, and if messaging a brand means providinga botthat cant understand consumers, you are basicallysaying to consumers we dont care.Botspurport to be a paradigm shift in consumer communication, combining cutting-edge AI and deep learning with the ability to integrate into existing messaging platforms. But the AI powering thesebotsis already available in other implementations  and it just doesnt work reliably yet.Weve all experienced this in the form of both virtual assistants (Siri, Cortana, etc.), as well as the ubiquitous and frustrating automated systems used in telephone customer service. While they have their uses, most of us are painfully aware of the limitations of both. Sure,botseliminate the voice recognition and voice synthesis steps, but those arent where the real challenges lie.Understanding (and speaking) the words isnt hard; its understanding the meaning thats the challenge.It doesnt take long to realize that these technologies cant really comprehend what were saying. They primarily listen for keywords. While researchers have made significant progress in areas like natural language processing and context awareness, those advances dont necessarily offer more practical utility in the implementations that are available today. In real-world use, even mildly complex sentences dont register. Try asking Siri for the weather in a friends city. It doesnt work, even if that friends address is in your contacts.The second problem is access to information. Even if an AI algorithm can understand the question, it doesnt necessarily have the answer. This information is often stored in massive legacy databases that are configured to handle specific queries.Bots arent plug and play, and making this information accessible will take significant engineering work.At present, thebotsthat are even remotely useful at non-trivial tasks are largelysupported by humans behind the scenes. While the industry continues to promotebotsas a panacea for everything from app development to reducing headcount, companies are quietly employing human labor to buy time while developers attempt to implement AI solutions that can work autonomously and scale as promised. The software is supposedly learning with every interaction, but whether or not these botsever graduate to real utility remains to be seen.Botscan respond to simple questions like balance inquiries, but theyre handing off the heavy lifting to people, as will be the case for the foreseeable future. In this respect,botsoffer some utility  acting as a front-line receptionist for customer care professionals by regurgitating basic information, while triaging everything else.As a tool in the customer engagement arsenal, botshave value, but right now, they dont come close to living up to the hype. Nevertheless, the more information our automated apprentices have to learn from, the better. So brands that want to leveragebotstomorrow should begin by building rich archives of conversational data today.Even in this more realistic hybrid scenario, the devil is in the details of the implementation. Right nowbotsarent very smart andthey can be incredibly slow the worst of both worlds. Waiting for a response from a human is, if not enjoyable, at least understandable. But waiting for something thats advertised as a computer seems absurd, and infinitely more frustrating.Avoiding the disconcerting uncanny valley that emerges when machines try to mimic humans is a delicate balance.Botswill need to queue and distribute requests seamlessly to their corporeal counterparts without the conversation feeling schizophrenic. We dont expect traditional apps to care or exhibit empathy, but if software acts human, then consumers are going to hold it to the same standard as humans.By setting the bar so high, anything less than perfect execution stands to be a huge disappointment and brands cant afford to shirk responsibility for the customer experience by adding a beta label, regardless of the technology behind it.Using messaging as a playground for experimental AI is a good way to alienate consumers at a time when meaningful connections are an increasingly scarce and valuable commodity. Hopefully botsevolve enough that human agents can be freed up to spend their time helping the people who need it most. In the meantime, brands would be wise to treat those interactions as precious opportunities for engagement rather than rushing to hand them over tobots.