
Jake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.Aubrey Hruby is an adviser to investors and companies doing business in Africa. She is a Visiting Fellow at the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council and the co-author of The Next Africa.Tech will be on President Obamas agenda as he hosts the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Kenya, taking along internet pioneer Steve Case and Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky.Nascent as it may be, Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) does have a promising tech sector  a growing patchwork of entrepreneurs, startups, and innovation centers coalescing country to country. *Kenya is now a recognized IT hub. Facebook recently expanded on the continent. And Silicon Valley VC is funneling into ventures from South Africa to Nigeria.These pieces are coming together as Africas budding tech culture and ecosystem emerge.The Rise of Silicon SavannahMost discussions of the origins of Africas tech movement circle back to Kenya. From 2007 through 2010 a combination of circumstance, coincidence, and visionary individuals laid down four markers inspiring the countrys Silicon Savannah moniker:In 2007, Kenyan telecom company Safaricom launched its M-PESA mobile money service to a market lacking retail banking infrastructure yet abundant in mobile phone users. The product converted even the most basic cell phones into roaming bank accounts and money-transfer devices.Within two years M-PESA was winning international tech awards after gaining nearly six million customers and transferring billions annually. The mobile money service shaped the continents most recognized example of technological leapfrogging: launching ordinary Africans without bank accounts right overtraditional brick-and-mortar finance into the digital economy.Shortly after M-PESAs arrival, political events in Kenya would inspire creation of one of Africas first globally recognized apps, Ushahidi. In late 2007, four technologists  Erik Hersman (an American who grew up in Kenya), activist Ory Okolloh, IT blogger Juliana Rotich, and programmer David Kobialinked up to see what could be done to quell sporadic violence as a results of an inconclusive presidential election.Over a three-day period the techies came up with the Ushahidi app (meaning witness in Swahili) to digitally, rapidly, and publicly track outbreaks of violence during Kenyas election crisis.The Ushahidi software that evolved became a highly effective tool for digitally mapping demographic events. As Kenya shifted back to stability, requests came in from around the globe to adapt Ushahidi for other purposes. By the end of 2008, the app had become Ushahidi the international tech company, which now has multiple applications in more than 20 countries.Soon thereafter Erik Hersman would flesh out the ideas that spurred Africas innovation hub movement. He wrote in a blogpost to other techies, that what African tech needed was permanent community spaces. Hubsin major cities with a focus on young entrepreneurs. . . . Part open community workspace (co-working), part investor and VC hub and part idea incubator. The nexus point for technologists, investors, [and] tech companies.These exchanges hatched the iHub innovation center on Nairobis now African ITsynonymous Ngong Road. Since 2010 152 companies have formed out of iHub. It has 15,000 members and on any day, numerous young Kenyans work in its labs and interact with global technologists such as Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer (a past speaker). iHub gave rise to Africas innovation center movement, inspiring the upsurge in tech hubs across the continent.Rounding off Silicon Savannah hallmarks M-PESA, iHub, and Ushahidi was the completion of the TEAMs undersea fiber optic cable, which arrived in Mombasa in 2010, and significantly increased broadband in East Africa.The project was largely the vision of Kenyas then Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Communications, Bitange Ndemo, who saw benefits in developing Kenyas Information Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure toward the country becoming a regional ICT hub. An ICT master plan he shaped in 2006 would eventually became the template for the Kenyan governments strong commitment to ICT policy. By 2013 Kenya formed its own fully staffed ICT Authority.Africas Emerging Tech LandscapeNotable as it has become, Silicon Savannah is but one corner of Africas tech movement. Across SSA new Silicon Savannahs are in the making and the components of a budding SSA IT ecosystem are emerging.Tech IncubatorsiHub-like innovation centers are becoming a mainstay of the continents progressing ICT infrastructure. In 2015 Zambias Bongo Hive and the Boston-based Fab Foundation tracked 170 innovation spaces across SSAorganizations like Nigerias CCHub, Ugandas Hivecolab, and Ghanas Meltwaterwhere techies come together daily for a variety of training and programs.Africas tech hubs are taking on many different characteristics. Some are more communal, grant based and social venture focused, while others shift toward profit oriented, startup accelerators models. Whatever the focus, these IT spaces are becoming central connect points for ideas, entrepreneurs, investment, and innovation across the continent.Junior and Senior TechiesBolstering SSAs IT hubs is the rise of a distinct African tech culturea movement to embrace technology in multiple forms, particularly among youth. Many members of the continents innovation spaces are in their 20s or even younger.An established group of techiesmost of most of whom studied in the U.S. and worked in American ITis also emerging. These include iHubs Erik Hersman and Juliana Rotich, Senegalese born, UKbased business-woman Marime Jamme, and AppsTech CEO Rebecca Enonchong. Nigeria has Kongas Sim Shagaya and Hopstop founder Chinedou Echerou. In addition to running various IT ventures, these individuals are becoming global spokespeople for African tech and mentors to some of its youngest aspirants.Investment and StartupsThree channels of funding into Africas IT ecosystem provide indicators of its future. One on level grant donations are funneling into the continents innovation hubs, app competitions, and social venture focused startups. Sources include U.S. foundations (Omidyar network to iHub), aid agencies (USAID to mLabs), and African governments (Nigerias funding of iDEA Hub).Global tech companies are also expanding operations into Africa. Facebook recently named its first Africa head and SSA office. SAP announced it will invest $500 million through 2020 to introduce some of its newest technologies to the continent. And IBM opened its first Africa research center in Kenyaa $100 million facility creating an African version of its Watson supercomputer, dubbed Project Lucy.And finally, theres a surge in VC funding and African startups. Our analysis indicates existence of nearly 3,500 new tech-related ventures in SSA. Countries such as Nigeria are in the midst startup booms. In Africas most populous nation and largest economy hundreds of online portals are popping up to provide just about every commercial service and solve any business problem.There are rst-time dotcoms for fashion (Fashpa), digital payments (Paga), shipping (ACE  AfricaCourier Express), employment (Jobberman), airline bookings, and digital movies and music (SOLO).The value of VC investment fueling Africas startups is quickly moving from the millions to billions. Adding analysis to data provided by CrunchBase, we were able to conrm more than $400 million in VC funding for African startups in 2014 and project at least $1 billion in VC investment in Africas tech startups for the period 20122018. [Chart 1] Big takers are Nigerias e-commerce ventures Jumia and Konga, who are banking on scaling digital commerce to Africas most populous nation and beyond [Chart 2].Four Things to Expect in African Techs FutureThesethingsarecoming,saidEchoVC investor EghosaOmoigui. ThereareIPO-potentialstartupsgrowinginAfrica.YouwillseetechcompaniescomingoutofAfrica withgiganticrevenues,enoughtosupportapubliclaunchon a localexchange,orevengooutonNASDAQ.We predict e-commerce, digital finance, or a video on demand platform starting in Nigeria will create African techs first billion dollar home run.*While this article focuses strongly on new IT trends in West and East Africa, its important tonote Southern Africa (namely Botswana and South Africa) has had an active tech scene for overa decade.