
Harry Whitehouse is chief technology officer and co-founder of Endicia.Withe-commercebooming and the holidays rapidly approaching, retail and tech giants alike are asking Santa for new ways to delight customers and increase sales. In the U.S., nearly half of all holiday shopping will be done online, according to theNational Retail Federation.With this rising demand, consumers want fast, affordable and easy deliveries. Thats why key players ine-commerceand retail are putting in every effort to revolutionize the shipping industry.In the shipping spotlight are major brands like Walmart and Google (under its parent company Alphabet), testing aircraft dronedelivery,and players like Amazon and Uber offering crowdsourced localdelivery.Amazon, Google and Walmart are just a few large brands testing dronedelivery. These companies certainly have an audience in the U.S.66 percent of consumersthink theyll receive their first drone-delivered package within thenextfive years. And it might even be sooner, as Googles David Vos recently shared his goal tomake dronedeliverya reality by 2017.Despite mounting anticipation, 2016 will be a defining year for the future of dronedelivery. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) appointed a task force to decide registration requirements for all commercial and personal drones by the end of 2015. The FAA expects to finalize the comprehensive rules for drone useby June 2016.If the final FAA regulations allow for commercial drones, will they become a widespread delivery option? To an extent, I agree with the naysayers couriers are going to have a hard time adopting drone use during stormy weather and in congested urban areas.However, there are certain situations where drones could be a great addition to a companysdeliveryarsenal. For example, I live in a reasonably rural suburb of San Francisco where the long, winding residential streets can make for a time-consumingdeliveryprocess.Its in locations like these where carriers could implement a hybrid delivery system. Companies may be deploying large trucks with an on-board drone fleet, enabling packages to be delivered to a few homes at once. The truck would park in one area and the drones would be sent out to deliver packages around that location. Then, they would return to the truck and nestle into charging bays.The truck would drive to thenextlocation, which would be optimized based on the addresses for each set of deliveries. That way, the truck is responsible for the longer haul, while the drones can more easily access the hard-to-reach mailboxes, making for an efficient package-delivery process.Startups and tech giants are getting their feet wet in thedeliveryindustry by focusing on the local market. Specifically, once one of the major carriers delivers the package to a local warehouse or retailer, these regionaldeliverycompanies take over and drop off the product on the consumers terms, typically same-day ornext-day.One popular business model for localdeliveryis crowdsourcing. Amazon Flex and UberRUSH have made big strides in this arena, hiring everyday folks to drive their own cars, pick up a package and drop it off with the recipient.While it may seem like localdeliveryis here to stay, it might take some time before we see widespread adoption. My companyEndiciasurveyed 1,000 consumers and discovered that 61 percent of respondents have never used a shipping startup. But if same-daydeliveryis able to make its way to more cities, theres hope for shipping startups to take off 67 percent of respondents said they would use new crowdsourced services like Amazon Flex or UberRUSH to receive a package.With a strong groundwork laid in 2015, and new options available from startups, retailers, tech companies and established shipping players like USPS Metro Post, localdeliverywill be a trend to watch in the new year.Lets get one thing clear: Despite the evolvingdeliverygame, there are certain aspects of shipping that wont be changing any time soon. While shipping startups continue to make a dent in the industry, there will always be a reliance on the main carriers: FedEx, UPS and the U.S. Postal Service.Were seeing many new players test the shipping waters with localdelivery, but theres still a need to transport goods longer distances, say from San Francisco to New York, which will be harder to achieve without the network and infrastructure of one of the major carriers.In the future, all of these new technologies fit cohesively into a package-deliverypuzzle, each option working in unison to meet customer needs. Crowdsourceddeliverywill likely find its footing in urban areas, and dronedeliverycan be a useful tool in rural locations.