What is it with politicians and encryption? There are nowtwo billsin different U.S. states, one in California and one in New York,proposing that smartphones sold in the statemust be able to be decrypted on demand by either theirmanufacturer or OS provider.Ergothefull disk encryption feature offered by Google on Android orApple on iOS would  if these bills aresignedinto law  be outlawed in the tworespective states. As,presumably, would sales of iPhones and (plenty of) Androids.The prospect of politicians outlawingthe iPhone does not have great vote-winning strategy written all over it. And yet politicians on both sides of the Atlantic apparentlycling to the notionthat encryption can be magicked out of existenceon their say so.You have to hope lawmakers are at least collectively not so stupid as toend up passing laws that attemptto outlawmath  even if individualpoliticians persist in the fantastical beliefthat the general publics security can be enhancedby weakening, er, the general publics securityOver in the U.K., draftlegislation currently before parliament, aiming toexpandintelligence and law enforcement agencies surveillance capabilities, containssome weasel words on encryption  with a clausethat comms providers should be able to remove electronic protection and provide legible user data in response to a lawful intercept warrant.While the UK government claims its not asking for device makers and service providers to create backdoors or hand over encryption keys, it has alsoexplicitly saidthe law will require comms providers to provide data in a legible form when served with awarrant. So the implication is the same: witha little legislativesleight of hand, end-to-end encryption is made tostand outside the law.Frankly this is a reallytedious debate, since its indefatigably cyclical. We are apparently doomed to rehashthe same arguments every few years as a new swathe of politicians arrive and set to, at the urging of overstretched security and law enforcement agencies, to findnew waysto circumvent unbreakableencryption.The fact things had gone a little quiet on the crypto wars front, in the pre-Snowden era,was evidentlynot absolutevictory but rather a creepingcommercial workaround  as the NSA et al tapped into poorly secured but widely used consumer services to acquire the troves of public data they had sought.But since the Snowden revelations tech giants have tightened up their act  and so we arrive, once again, at politicians trying to tighten the legal thumb-screws on encryption.Not so much a crypto war then, but a continual arms race between technology services and a powerfulindustrial surveillance complex that evidently still has a huge pull on thepolitical strings in countries like the U.S.There is a very long history of U.S. government agencies seeking to perforate encryption. The NSA even designed a chipset with a backdoor  the Clipper Chip  in the 1990s and tried to get U.S. phone makers to use it. (Yep, you can guesshow well that went )So it seems the tug-of-war between tech and politics is a struggle ofSisyphean duration;where futileactions are continually demanded, despite beingalltoo apparently and hopelessly opposed tothe laws of physics. And were supposed to call this progress?The argument that national security is enhanced by perforatingsecure encryption has been roundly and consistently condemned by the security industry. You dont enhance the publics security by making everyonesinformationmore easilyaccessible to hackers andother bad actors. Period.Yet here we are again.In this instance the bill in California is specifically makingthe argument that breaking encryption is a necessary measure to combat human trafficking.In the U.K. the examplesroutinely brandishedto justifymass state penetrationof securesystems areterrorism and/or pedophilia.The problem with sucharguments is they haveno boundaries. Where do you draw the line? Should every home have government-installed security camera in everyroom on the off chance that a person living there might one day do something criminal? Sure you might catch some criminalsbut its a massively disproportionate response to invade the privacy and weaken the security of everyone in the country in order to achieve that result. Policing cant be absolute. It needs to be balanced against other considerations.And if we want to live in a free society, where civil liberties and personal privacy are enshrined as fundamental values whichhelp to define who we can beas individuals (and as a collective), then we need to have some indeliblered lines.Yetmass surveillance rides rough shod over hard won democratic boundaries in the name of anill-defined and apparentlyeternal war on terror. If the goal is absolute defeat of terrorism then politicians are going to need to do a lot more than baniPhones. Probably some kind of universally implantedmindreading chip would be necessary.So yeah, good luck with that.Returning to reality, attempts to outlaw encryption are doomed to fail on the grounds that its not possible to controlpeoples access to encrypted technology. In one veryrecent example,the so-called Islamic State has builtits own encrypted chat app. So what was the point of politicians trying to enforce backdoors inmainstream apps and services? Bad actors will always finds ways to route around the damage. Meanwhileeveryone elses data security gets screwed.In all likelihood terrorists find this situationentirely to their liking  given they are causing massive damage to public security with minimal action on their part. Theyve outsourced mass hackingto government agents whipped into the chaotic vortex ofpower politics and the peculiarpotency of terrorism to flippolitical levers. Meanwhiletruly majorthreats to human civilization (e.g. climate change) apparently take years to even register as a political issue, let alone make it onto the legislativeradar.Such is the strange logic of politics.Soif the states of California andNew York end up deciding to outlaw sales of modern smartphones  and you really have to hope thats pretty darn unlikely, given how crazy the logic of thisis (I toldTCs editor I would eat my proverbial hat if the NY law comes to pass, so I confess to having some teethin thegame )  youll undoubtedly soon see a wholelot of U.S. citizens daytrippingtothe next state to buy their next Nexus or iPhone. And the question will remain:what exactly will politicians have achieved?The overarching problem appears to bethat security serviceshave become addicted to catch-all surveillance as their modus operandi for intelligence gathering. Instead of focusing their resources in a more intelligently targeted way. (If you need access to a suspect personsencrypted data you can always install malware on theirdevice. Instead the security servicesprefer to demandtech platforms do the intelligence work for them by providing backdoor access to everyones data. So perhaps theyve forgotten how to docore police work to figure out who are suspects in the first place. Possiblybecause they are drowning in data)This structural problem appears to becompounded by some cosy relations between politicians who are proposing encryption-perforating legislation and thesecurityagencies seeking it. For instance,Ars Technica notes that Jim Cooper, the California Assembly member who is proposing one of theaforementioned bills, isa 30-year veteran with the Sacramento County Sheriffs Department.While, in the New York state example, the bill has been proposed by Assembly member Matthew Titone  who public records show has taken campaign donor fundingcontributions frompolice unions and associationsin recent times.So long as politicians remain mostcomfortable outside the digital world, and so long as they need to raise moneyto finance their own re-election campaigns, well get technologically illiterate laws being proposed, either from out-and-out stupidity. Or (more likely) to placate other interest groups who are more organizedwhen it comes togreasingthe right set of political wheels  and the next round of crypto skirmishes will rat-tat-tatup again.Is there any way to stop the madness of repeat history? The most positive sign in this latest crypto battleisthe robust public defense of privacy and encryption being mounted by Apple. Such a high profile company is in a position to raisepublic awarenessand apply substantial political pressure. And loud enoughobjectionscan act as a counterweighttomoves to quietly slip new loopholes into encrypted services via vaguely-wordedlegislature or attemptsto pass offintellectually dishonest arguments as inarguablelogic. Say by claimingthe safety of the citizenrydepends on outlawing iPhones.Even so, the cycleremains terribly tedious. We can buthope that eventually, in some moment of blinding future revelation,there will be a political tipping point into a general understanding that the safety of the citizenry actually depends upon the sanctityof the citizenrysdata.Perhaps the proliferationof anInternet of Things  wherebyhuge volumes of intimate personal data are routinely streamed to the cloud, direct frompeoples homes and even from their bodies  will be the catalystfora much needed shift of mainstream perspective.Solets hope we dont have to wait too long before the crypto wars are finally, finally won.