I am a tall straight white cisgendered Canadian man in excellent health, i.e. I won pretty much every available lottery on the day I was born. People expect me to excel at things, or at least they dont expect me not to. Concierges at five-star hotels are eager to help me, and rarely even ask me whether or not I am a guest.All of which is to say: people like me have certain advantages in this world. At the same time, people like melike all people!tend to unconsciously prefer to associate with people like us. Et voil, one particularly opaque facet of the infamous filter bubble effect, wherein we reinforce our pre-existing views, and in doing so unconsciously perpetuate social exclusion, while blocking out conflicting views and orthogonal backgrounds.It turns out that such filter bubbles are actually bad for you, or, at least, your ideas:Diverse networks matter! Here is a study showing that people with more diverse Twitter networks have better ideas.  http://t.co/l0YXP6BhfV Ethan Mollick (@emollick) June 10, 2015TechCrunch has had a fantastic run of posts on diversity in tech of late (especial shout-out to Megan Rose Dickey) which Ive contemplated at some length. I also found Elissa Shevinskys book Lean Out: The Struggle For Gender Equality In Tech And Start-Up Culture disconcertingly thought-provoking.Its hard not to conclude that technologys current pre-eminence among the fields of human endeavour, coupled with the perfectly natural human tendency to interact with others like ourselves, means that whole swathes and classes of people are finding it harder than it should be to board the rocket ship that is our industry.(Similarly, by the time you read this, Ill be in the desert conurbation of Black Rock Cityand hopefully out of data range, so save your hate email for another week until I returnwhich is another place/movement that is still remarkably white after all these years. Not due to any conspiracy, or even ill-will, on anybodys part; just three decades of subtle ripple effects.)But of course we are not irrevocably doomed to live forever in filter bubbles, or forever unaware of our birth advantages. How can we know, though, whether we are trapped in such a bubble or not, and need to break out?Well. About eighteen months ago I came up with a very crude measure of this, which I call the Honeywell Bubble Count after my friend Leigh Honeywell, who inadvertently introduced the notion to me. Its a very simple algorithm indeed:Add those percentages, and thats your Honeywell Bubble Count. Is it less than 50? (Which seems like a pretty low bar!) Then you may have a bit of a filter-bubble problem. Maybe you should diversify your social media by a little, or a lot.And so, with some trepidation, for the first time since I wrote that post, I hereby revisit my own Honeywell Bubble Count, with some hope that its improved. Follow along for yourself:Add em up and my Honeywell Bubble Count is  67. Whew! Ish. To be honest Im not at all sure thats a number to be particularly proud of. But its on an upward trajectory, at least, and thats the important thing, for me and for all of us.