
Jarno M. Koponen is a designer, humanist and previously a co-founder of media discovery startup Random.Personalizationalgorithms influence what youve chosenyesterday, what you choose today and what youll be choosing tomorrow.Simultaneously, there seems to be something wrong with personalization. We are continuously bumping into obtrusive, uninteresting ads. Our digital personal assistant isnt all that personal. Weve lost friends to the algorithmic abyss of the News feed. The content we encounter online seemstorepeat the same things again and again.Personalizations image of us is like looking yourself inthe funfairs house of mirrors.Personalizationcaricaturizes us and creates a strikinggapbetween our real interests and their digital reflection.There are five main reasons whypersonalizationremainsbroken.Data gap meansthat anyalgorithmicenvironment has only a limited amount of data about you. Thesystem can understand you only on its own terms,based on the experience itprovides and the feedback loops it uses. Even if the system uses external datasources, it still has only a partial understandingof your interests andpreferences.Computing gaprefers to the limitations of computing power and machine-learning technologies.Todays fastest systems become too slow when theytry to understand thecomplexity of an individual on their own terms. Simultaneously, even the mostadvanced machine-learning solutions havent yetprovided a way for computers toseamlessly learn from us and adapt to us.Interest gapisrelated to the conflicting interests of users, platforms and third-party actors(e.g., marketers). It comes down to this: Whose interestsand preferences areprioritized when deciding what you can see and do? You might not be interestedin ads, but they are shown to you nevertheless.When someone is paying for yourattention, your ability to choose for yourself diminishes.Action gapdefines the incongruity between your true actions and the ones that are at yourdisposal. For example, you might want to press a non-existent Not Coolbutton. Or you might not want to see a certain image ever again, but theres nomethod to make it happen. Your actions aresimplified to fit the environments limitedfeedback loops.Content gapdenotesthat any platform or application doesnt always have content that serves your exactintentions or needs. It also means that the diversity of the served contentmight be very limited. Be it sports news or restaurant tips, the app or websitemight run out of relevant content. Themore niche the topic, the smaller thechance that you continuously get content that works for you.Additionally, therelies a more general paradox at the very heart of personalization.Personalizationpromises to modify your digital experience based on yourpersonal interests and preferences. Simultaneously,personalizationis used to shapeyou, to influence you and guide your everyday choicesand actions. Inaccessible andincomprehensible algorithms make autonomous decisions on your behalf. Theyreduce the amount of visible choices, thus restricting your personal agency.Because of thepersonalizationgaps and internal paradox, personalization remains unfulfilling and incomplete. It leaves us with afeeling that it serves someone elses interests better than our own.There are three design and development paths that would help personalization to serve us better as unique individuals.Personalizationneedsa new user interface paradigm and interaction model.To bridge the data gap,personalizationinterface learns efficientlyfrom direct and indirect actions. Similarly,the computing gap grows smaller as the system learns from what you do and what youre notdoing. To solve the interest gap, you can directly controlwhat is visible to you. The interface allows you to intuitively view different alternatives,mixing in relevant content coming fromthird parties. Youre able to seewhy certain things are shown to you. This transparency enhances yourability toaffect your preferences, benefitting also the platform and third parties.To shrink the action gap, the adaptive user interface enablescontext-aware interactions, such as custom emojis or gestures, based onyour realintentions and reactions. From a content gap point of view, the systemis able to notify you when something interesting is available and actionable witha little vibration on your wrist or a smart notification on your devicesscreen. The new interface forpersonalizationputs my-time above real-time.Personalizationshould be able to provide a mix of relevant and surprising, timely andwell-aged content.From the data gap and computing gap perspective, thesystem can have a more granular understanding of your real interests if itprovides a diverse set of alternative options. This allows youto express yourpersonal interests in more detail. Simultaneously, the system can learn torecognize previously unknown or unorthodox connectionsbased on your activity.Interestgap-wise, the remix of relevant information and surprises allows you to decide yourselfhow to prioritize information.By introducing relevant yet diverse alternatives,the system is not caging you into a restrictive information silo. Even thetime-to-timeirrelevant content is not interfering with your experience. Bothrelevance and serendipity are subjective and contextual. Algorithms recognizewhen you areopen to exploration or when youre more goal-oriented, searchinga specificpiece of information.To diminish the action gap, diverse smart recommendationslet you define yourself on your own terms. The system starts to understand yourshort-termand long-term interests to anticipate your information needs. Timeliness does not equal relevance; a huge pool of content ages well without losing itsappeal or meaning. Content gap shrinks effectively as the pool of interestinginformation gets wider and deeper.Personalizationshould bring together collective intelligence and artificial intelligence.Theconnections become faster and the computers smarterand more efficient. To decreasethe computing gap the focus is on enhancing the information flow between humansand machines. Humans are (still)the best pattern-recognition systems in theknown universe. We can help each other to find and discover meaningful signals.Artificial intelligenceshould empower this sense-making by poweringadaptive interfaces and predictive learning systems.Human-centeredpersonalizationbrings together human-curatedsignals and adaptive machine-learning solutions. In this way intelligentsystems matureby learning from our individual and collective interactions andinsights. In this way human imagination and irrationality can outplay the restrictions of algorithmic determinism.What about thepersonalizationparadox?Theres no objectivity (nor should therebe claimsof objectivity) in the realm ofpersonalization. Weshape the algorithms andthe algorithms shape us continuously. To serve us better, personalizationalgorithms should be able understand oursubjective way of seeingconnections and meanings around us.In the end,personalizationas a concept derives from theworld of industrial mass production and marketing. Maybe, in order to mark anew era of algorithmicallyassisted decision-making  and to emphasize theimportance of personal agency we should talk about choice algorithms instead of personalizationalgorithms.Who would build such choice algorithms for us?