
Don Basile is an entrepreneur and venture capitalist with more than 20 years of executive experience in technology, healthcare and telecommunications.When mass-appealwearabledevices arrived onthescene in 2009 intheform of Fitbit, skeptics wondered whether consumers would feel the need to track their steps and calories. But as technology has gotten more sophisticated and devices more sleek and intuitive,theindustry has grown exponentially.Astheworldwidewearablesmarket is expected to swell to more than 126 million units shipped in 2019 (up from 19.6 million units in 2014), its applications have moved farbeyondfitness trackers. Lets take a look at three groundbreaking innovations that are poised to revolutionize the wearable tech sector even further.Forwearabletech to become as ubiquitous as smartphones and tablets, batteries need to be smaller and longer lasting, while also being thinner and more flexible. Samsung SDI and LG Chem have made headway recently, as demonstrated atthe recentInterBattery2015 exhibition in Seoul.Samsung debuted two new batteries. Theultra-slim .3 mm Stripe is a flexible battery that Samsung claims has higher energy density compared to other batteries onthemarket, thanks to its minimized battery sealing width. Because oftheStripes thinness and flexibility, theres a big opportunity hereforwearablesto move into more devices, like necklaces and clothing.Meanwhile,theBand is meant to attach to smartwatch straps to add 50 percent more battery power totheoriginal device. Contortingthebattery more than 50,000 times in testing its durability, Samsungs focus on form as well as function could be a game changer when these entertheconsumer market around 2017.LG Chem also unveiled anew flexible smartwatch batterythat itbegan developing in 2012. Setting this one apart is its ability to fold into a tight radius of 15 mm, or halfthesize of current batteries onthemarket.Thewire battery will allowforsmartwatches to be much more flexible in future designs.Ultra thinwearablesthat adhere totheskin like tattoos to monitor vital signs might sound like science fiction, but theyve been aroundfora few years now. Until recently,thetrackers were prohibitively expensive and time-consuming to make. But researchers attheUniversity of Texas havedevelopeda cut and paste methodforaffordably producing these trackers in just 20 minutes.(Source: everything  Shutterstock)Theprocess involves cutting pieces of metal on polymer adhesives and printing electronics ontotheadhesives. While these patches arent yet widespread in healthcare settings, this latest breakthrough could make them more readily available as a wayfordoctors to track patient vital signs, heart rate, muscle movement and more.Manipulating substances ontheatomic and molecular level could provide a new host ofwearabletech capabilities. Two years ago, Google X announced it was working on developing magnetic nanoparticles capable of seeking out cancerous cells inthebloodstream and reporting these to a smart wristband via light signals. Filing a patent calledNanoparticle Phoresisearlier this year, Google is making progress on a lofty goal that could revolutionizetheway we detect and treat cancer, among other maladies.(Source: Syda Productions  Shutterstock)Meanwhile,thewonder material graphene  a single atom layer of carbon bonded hexagonally, thethinnest and strongest material ever created in a lab  has given rise to more than 25,000 patents since its discovery in 2003. Amongthelatest potential applications for graphene is wearable, coated fabrics that can detect dangerous gases intheair and alertthewearer by activating an LED light.Led by researchers attheElectronics and Telecommunications Research Institute and Konkuk University intheRepublic of Korea, this breakthrough could be applied to industries where air quality poses a health threat and wearing a monitor will allowforquicker response time to threats. Combined with graphenes provenheat-reducing potentialin electronics,thenanomaterial is poised to be a big player inwearabletech.