Editors note:Indus Khaitanis a co-founder of enterprise mobility startup Bitzer Mobile, which was recently acquired by Oracle. Earlier he was the founding partner of The Morpheus, a seed incubator in India.In 2001, I was working for Outride, Inc., an early pioneer in context-sensitive search andbrowser-history-based personalization.After thedot-com boom, search became pass. Thestartup couldnt raise more money and closed, and its technology assets wereacquired by Google. The founders of Outride were givenglowingrecommendationstoengineers to get them hired at Google and a few joined.I was interested but there was a technical glitch. Fresh, off the boat from India, I wason an H-1B visa, working as a contractor via a staffing company, and my permanentresidency application was pending. It was not advisable to switch employers midway through the process.I didntpursue the opportunity at Google. If I remembercorrectly, the going offers were around $86,000 in annual salary and 20,000 options pricedat less than $2. If you do the math, you could assume if I had had the opportunity, Iwouldntbe writing this blog post.Id beliving in the wilderness somewhere.The H-1B visa limits a change of employer while a permanent residency application is pending. Thelaws around green cards have been relaxed since, but itsstill not advisable to changeemployers. On the other hand, changing employers while on an H-1B, whether residencyapplication is pending or not, still requires a complete cycle of three to six months, ifnot more.This all came to mind as I was reading Paul Grahams recentposton immigration. Hes right on the money aboutopening the doors to expert programmers. However, the big picture is that the immigrationlaw is written around a company and its advertised job description. A qualified candidatehas to meet certain minimum criteria such as a college degree and number of years ofexperience in relevant technologies, to make him fit the mold of the advertised job post.Great programmersdont fit into a mold. Companies hire them not because they have workedon well-known architectures, but because of a programmers potential to create new paradigms.Unless we invert this match-making between a company and a candidate, we cannot fix thetech immigration issue at large.The inabilityof immigrant programmers to change jobs easily indirectly affects companies. Great talentmay have chosen to stick around with their employers, to allow forfor the completion of theirgreen cardprocess. Companies may not hire them at all, due to the long process ofswitching employers for visa holders. Moreover, lack of portability reduces the lifelongearning potential of a tech immigrant. It also has a direct impact on the aggregate wagedata, which exacerbates the problem by providing enough space for tech consulting outfitsto manipulate salaries for immigrants.Another consideration is age. If I wasable to switch jobs easily, when I was in my late twenties  my pathwould have been different. I waited for more than five years for mypermanent residency card. Im thankful, but thepace atwhich I workhasslowedsignificantly.Tenyears ago, I was able to pull all-nightersfor a whole week, now I can do at most two nights.Simply opening the floodgates, raising the H-1B visa cap, and calling for more foreign-born technology professionals does not fix the problem. On one side, an increased visa cap gives opportunities to new programmers. On the other, greater job flexibilityenables the same hiring companies tap into the existing pool of immigrant talent more readily.Technology changes rapidly. Whats hot today may not betomorrow. Imagine being an expert data scientist, one of the hottest tech career options today, and then gettingstuck in the permanent residency process for three to five years, while missing out on opportunities elsewhere. The lack ofvisa portabilityis the white collar equivalent of bonded labor.