
Omar Bohsali an engineer/designer building Sudo and who is very curious about the invisible app market.Todays invisible app market could be classified as a passing trend, but it might also be the beginning of a significant multi-year shift in how we transact when were away from our computers. This shift applies to mobile devices, email, home devices like the Amazon Echo and even wearables like the Apple Watch.In this essay, I begin by explaining why the market exists and highlight some key benefits. Next, I share my mental model of how the market is structured. Lastly, I end by anticipating where it could be headed.Invisible apps are taking off because, in many cases, they are faster than using a native application or mobile website. While scheduling a calendar event using the native iPhone calendar app takes at least six keystrokes, using an invisible app like Clara Labs, you can forward an email or send a message without any context switching. In addition, because invisible apps are asynchronous, you send the message and youre done.Invisible apps also reduce decision fatigue, which is especially beneficial when you, the user, know what you want. For example, looking at 20 different flight options from a pair of airports  80 percentof the time, you either want the fastest or cheapest option. Thats one of the key benefits of Operator and Luka.ai: Its much easier to answer a yes/no question like, Do you want to send your mother flowers for Mothers Day? than be faced with an open-ended question like, Mothers Day is coming up. What gift should I get her? This is also the reason why clicks for mothers day gifts are significantly cheaper than what BloomThat would probably pay for an app install.In fact, reducing decision fatigue drives costs down. For instance, Uber reduces decision fatigue by limiting a users choices to one of three vehicle classes: UberX, Black or SUV. Thats it.By contrast, earlier companies that attempted to take advantage of excess automobile capacity offered you, the user, a list of cars, drivers and prices, allowing you to make an offer for how much youd pay to get from point A to point B. Decision fatigue at its finest.Elsewhere, companies like TaskRabbit initially launched an auction model where you, the user, bid on the person you wanted to provide you a service. Theyve since switched away from that, but predictably, under such a model, by the time you coordinated the service and the person you bid on, you may as well have spent the time assembling the IKEA furniture yourself.Excessive optionality is a liability and a burden, and messaging apps near-eliminate that by reducing the number of choices. Existing companies are slowly making that shift. Postmates, for one, defined itself as the company where, well deliver anything to you.Since then, theyve shifted focus slightly to: well still deliver anything, but here are some awesome food choices we can deliver to you within an hour, and this is one of the (many) factors contributing to their well-deserved success.The invisible app market has three pieces:1. The Messaging Channel:From where does the user express his or her intent? Right now, there are a few different ways:2. Operator/Assistant:Whats on the other end to receive the message?3. Fulfillment Layer:Once the request is understood (either by a human, a machine or some combination thereof), which service will actually fulfill the request? The answer varies based on what the user wants. For example:Invisible apps might eventually promote vertical integration, and indirectly, monopoly power. Being the universal top-of-funnel is extremely valuable: By owning the customer experience, you can exert downward price pressure on suppliers.Lets take Digit as an example. Digit is an invisible app that automatically moves money from your checking into your savings account. If they keep delivering on the user experience and keep a rock-solid, secure foundation, they could be poised to be the savings bank of the future.I presume they currently store customer funds in FDIC-backed savings accounts at large financial institutions (like Wells Fargo and Citi), but thats an irrelevant detail to Digits customers, who dont need to know wheretheir money is being stored.At scale, Digit could work with whatever bank makes the most competitive terms, or conceivably could set up an independent banking operation, thereby becoming more vertically integrated.The same applies with many messaging apps in China. WeChat, for example, released WeChat Taxi last year and users booked more than 21 million taxi rides in a single month. Theres immense value at being the top-of-funnel for mobile, and I predict the winner will become very successful.Companies in this space will face a handful of challenges.First, operator/assistant companies must be differentiated in order for users to stay top-of-mind. By claiming to do anything for the user, you end up doing everything decently well, but you fail at staying top-of-mind with your customers.The mobile space is thirsty for such an operation: On the desktop, weve come to know Ill find you anything as search; developing such an operation on mobile remains a challenge.Next, scaling such an operation can be arduous. If youre lucky enough to have a growth spike, you have to scale operations proportionally. While this sounds like a good problem to have, it is still nevertheless a big problem that could sour many first impressions.Speed is one of the core benefits of messaging services, and if your ssa cant respond to the user within a timely manner, theyll likely move on. Therefore, first impressions really matter in this space.If your company decides to use artificial intelligence and natural language processing, youre in luck because of the wealth of open source frameworks (python nltk, etc.) and APIs (like wit.ai).That said, these will only get you so far. And while boosting your AIs natural language interfaces mean-squared-error from 80-82 percent is an internal cause for celebration, users are much more shrewd.They generally expect things to work all the time, which is hard to do with a natural language product. It also be a resource rabbit hole  getting a model 80 percent accurate is easy; but the following 10 percentcould take years.Like most things in Silicon Valley, messaging may just be a passing trend that we look back at in 12 months and laugh. But theres also a chance that we could be onto something really exciting. Many of the most important technological innovations in the past 50 years were ex-ante novelties with little business application. That is, until they werent.