Home audio is rarely just plug-and-play. Systems Ive dealt with installing over the years have come with dozens of feetof wiring and multiple unitsthat require an afternoon or more to get all set up. Now, mostaudiophiles certainlydont mind this stepof the process and really enjoy the ability to get their systems finessed to their liking, but to many others Id imagine theres a lotof appeal for a high-end system that just works right out of the box.That seemed to be part of Mass Fidelitys thinkingwhen it launched its Indiegogo campaign for the Core, a wireless single speaker system that delivers three-dimensional sound, last year. Its apparent that portrayal resonated with a ton of consumers  the campaign blasted through its $48,000 funding goal and raised over $1.5 million from around 4,600 backers.The company just launched the Core to the public, and Ive spent the last week listening to the speaker in place of my traditional setup. The Core is $599, which is, in case you were wondering, a lot of money for a single speaker system. That being said, this littlespeaker does a hell of a lot.Surprisingly Full SoundFirst off, the Core shows off a startling amount of power for its size. This really cant be overstated. The thing is 2/3 the size of a Kleenex cube and delivered volume and bass that left my neighbors knocking on my apartment door to quiet down.Audio quality with the Core is surprisingly rich. The tiny speaker promises full stereo sound when placed against a wall roughly equidistant from the walls on either side and when you follow that guidance its crazy what detailed sound you actually get.Mass Fidelity credits the three-dimensional sound to its special Acoustic Holography technology, which capitalizes on a technology called wave field synthesis that ultimatelyleft my ears a little unsure of where the speaker was actually placed in the room when I was listening to Adele belting out Hello.All the testament this technologyneeds is the fact that my buddiesasked where I had placedthe other speakers in my room when I played them some tunes on the Core.That being said, speaker placement is still pretty important when youre strivingfor the high-quality sound youd expect from a $600 speaker. Move the Core from its sweet spotagainst the wallinto the middle of the roomand the audio quality turns a bit more hollow.Potent PortableMobility is another major sell of the Core; the device rocks a 12-hour battery that allows you to toss the device in a suitcase or backpack and take the stereo Bluetooth speaker anywhere you go. This thing dwarfed the sound coming fromother large Bluetooth speakers I have and even at its highestvolumes wasnt producingdistorted sound in the least.Multi-roomAnother keyfeature of the Core is a pretty simple multi-room experience that works straight out of the box. You can connect up to eight Cores to each other with the click of a button on the main unit  the devices then create a 5 GHz dedicated network.This is all really a breeze to set up, in fact Im pretty confident that even my grandma could get this speaker system connected throughout the rooms inher condo, I highly doubt I could say the same for a speaker system like Sonos.Ultimately the Coreis a very unique hybrid class of audio device that fills a lot of needs for the casual music lover. Its a kickass portable Bluetooth speaker, a respectable home audio systemthat saves you space and, with the purchase of additional Cores, a multi-room listening experience. It does a lot, asit well should for $599.The Core isnt for everyone, there are certainly better sounding rigs that you could build for the price, but if youre looking for a single speaker system that reproduces big stereo sound in a small package right out of the box it may be just the system for you.