Editors note: Tadhg Kelly is a games industry consultant, freelance designer and the creator of leading design blogWhat Games Are.You can follow him on Twitterhere.Barring a couple of examples likeMinecraftandMonument Valleythe conventional wisdom is that you cant charge for mobile games. That, unlike other digital stores like Steam, the users are too casual, the competition too severe and the availability of choice too damned high. In this world your mainoption (so they say) is to go free-to-play. You have to build a game-as-a-service, be thinking in terms of endless retention and open loops. You have to play psychological tricks to get players over the penny gap. And to do that, goes the thinking, involves usinga variety of by-the-book tropes.Ive never bought into this narrative. Ive oftenfelt that the paymentproblem with premium mobile games isntaninherent law of the universe. Smartphones are perfectly fine game devices just like any other and, even if their players dotrend casual, that shouldnt mean they behave intrinsically differently for all time. Casual gamers have happily paid in other platforms like Nintendos DS and Wii, as well as on PC forcompanies like Big Fish.No the premium problem on mobile hasalways struck me as a perception issue.Its abouthow mobile gamesare marketed.The medium, as Marshall McLuhan famously said, is the message. He argued that the form of a medium itself influences how messages delivered through it are received, and therefore changing what they actually say. Taking a leaf from McLuhan then, Isubmit that the message is the product. The tone, approach and strategy of how marketing is conducted shapes what kinds of product can be allowed by aproducts developer. What kind of ad youll run determines what kind of game youll believe can work, and therefore what kind of game youll fund and make.One of the maxims of the mobile/social revolution isthat big and stupid advertising isa mortal sin. Such tactics areconsidered inferior because they arentdata-driven. New wave game makers, publishers, API providers and platforms consider themselves smarter than lumbering hulks like EA. Look at the stupid money that big game publishers splurge, they say. Look at how incompetent they are, how old school, how TV generation, how Hollywood.Instead they favor the model of performance marketing, that is to say targeted advertising with measurable results.This new wave of game studios (which I previous dubbed the San Francisco Revolution before then declaring it over) are all performance marketing wonks.Ever since Google Adsense the technology world has assertedthat advertising should be measurable rather than not. In the world of products and services a lot of money is poured down deep marketing wells creating ads withlittle effect. How many times have you seen, for example, that Taco Bell ad trying to excite you with anew and snazzily named recipeof corn tortilla, mincemeat and cheese? Can you remember what it was called? Of course not. Many marketing gurus over the last twentyyears have made a similarpoint, like Seth Godin and his hilarious talks about how big companies fuel clutter.Arguably Taco Bell is wasting its time making those ads, but we cant know for sure. They arenot meaningfully measurable. Theyre cloaked in woolly terms about brand value and market presence, stuff that either feels like its more valuable than saffron or utter bullshit. Most modern thinking seems to incline toward the latter, andwe see case after case in book after book showing how markets operate in a more tribal and fragmented manner (lessFord F150 Built Tough, more Tesla) than in the three-channel days of television. Thussmarter advertising, targeted campaigns, word of mouth, social value and numerous other lower-cost/higher-intelligence approaches are considered superior.This is the tradition whichframes how San Francisco (the revolution, not the place) game companies think. Its simply taken as read, a mantra repeated from studio to studio as fact.New developersportray themselves as smarter-through-metrics, as lean, as sensitive to audiences, as tribal and as able to respond. Go to any conference and you hear folks talk up advertising platforms saying they offer premium installs, better tracking, quality not quantity. They believe that theyre disrupting the old with the new and finding a less Hollywood-stupid way of doing things.But no. Though they talk lean and market fit such developersusuallyclone each others games to the hilt and blindly follow each others leads. Theyknow nothing about fit. Though they claim to follow a story of providing value to players and encouraging some to pay, they actually behave likeVegas casinos, squeezing, hustling and pushing players into pinch points.Though they claim they dont make Vegas-sized bets and insteadtalk tribal marketing, what they actually do is mass-purchase classified advertising and run itblindly to a couple of demographics.And theyre trapped.At certain points in any platforms life cycle dumb advertising is just fine.New platforms often have green-fields phases where the most important task is simply to grab attention.Ive always maintained, for example, that this was the smartest thing that the earlyZynga (both in viral and paid ads) ever did. The problem cameafterwards, when the platform had settled down and audiences expected more. Thats when performance-only gotthem into trouble because itspromises werenever realized.In theory performance marketing in games should be like direct marketing to valued customers.For example my wife is a member of a wine clubthat regularly sends her emails about great wines at good prices and with an opportunity to buy. Thats good direct marketing at work because she anticipates it. Her club doesnt need to bombard her in the hope that shell click. But with game companies its rarely like that.Its great in theory to assemble usage metrics to fine-tune campaigns and find the right audiences, but in practise its little more than spammarketing and playing a game of razor-thin conversion increases. Unless you have an audience anticipating yourcommunication, all youre doing is trying to find better ways to drive clicks.The problem is that entertainment audiences are not commonlyin ananticipatory state.The entertainment industry sells untried experiences to audiences that value surprise and hotness instead. Unlike products and services, that means they often dont want more of the same.Just because a player enjoyed one game does not mean they are a customer for that genre.Some are, becoming franchise fans (the tribes of gaming), but those customers become keenly aware of product quality.Many dont, and instead look to be delighted over and over. They look for the thing that they havent done before, and to be surprised.For both customer types data-driven marketing models struggle. They can onlyprofile the actionsthat the player already made, correlating her along a number of linesbased on previous activity. But if youve ever gone to the front page of Amazon to see it offer you five types of router because you recently just bought one, you know what the limits of that model feellike. It tends toward trying to repeat-sell, to sell youthe exact same thing again, but youdont care about that any more.Game makers often think their marketing isthe same as my wifes wine club, but its not.The only reason itworks is through brute force. Any advertising gets some people to click even if its the most useless thing in the world if its scale is large enough, and that can translate into a business. And because this is the shape of most digital marketing  and it essentially relies on overload  this iswhy the Internet tends to be bad at selling premium things. In many venues the only opportunities for marketing are small graphic panels, banners, cross-promotional bars and whatnot delivered at volumes.They lens the kind of marketing you can build.In performance marketing the pitch hasto be blunt. Something like Insane Word Puzzle Fun! Play Now! is the sum total of what can be said. This is why such campaignsoften go for the obvious, for the pun or the wink. One example is the Loot the Booty campaign for KabamsPirates  Tides of Fortune, featuring images of scantily clad ladies and a claim that the game is banned in 12 countries:In reality? Its just a formulaicmidcore social game hoping that 5% of respondents will buy coins in it and pushing them to pay. Same as all the rest, in other words, because it has to be. Its marketing only allows that kind of product to exist.These are low quality ads selling low quality products to users whove seen a game just like them before and know what to expect. That makes the business of providing these games even more about margins, which depresses the likelihood of the experience being good. The volume of bought advertising has to be very high because its returns will be low, and the resulting commitment to making a great product will be low.It becomes a negative cycle, one we saw before on Facebook. Facebook had anintrinsicinstability in its game marketing for fourreasons: 1) The supply of novice users whod never encountered its tropes eventually randown. 2) The competition from many identical and commoditized titles turned the ocean red, leading to an increase in deals and offers. 3) The cost of advertising (aka user acquisition) wentup up up. 4) This lead previously successful studios to overinvest in trying to make the same game again, exploding headcount and turning previous darling Zynga (and many others) into cautionary tales.But to get past it takes a change in DNA because you dont stop becoming a wonk overnight. San Francisco studios tend to have agap in understanding why performance marketing is limited, and thisis why so many social/mobile game studiosare institutionally uncreative. They tend to be populated with product manager MBAs with zero feel for design and  like hiring an accountant to be CEO of a movie studio  have overly meat-and-potatoes ideas about whats important. Many of them have never worked in games prior, dontknow the value of art and experience in the game making process, or tend to think that those qualities are subjective (in the to be ignored vein). All of whichlenses what kinds of marketing theyll support and in turn what products theyll support. But maybe thats about to change.Mobile is different to Facebook. On iOS theres more editorialin the discovery process which means the platform is able to surface innovative titles and thus arrest stagnation. The technology is vastly more capable than Flash-bound Facebook ever was, so theres more room for innovation and growth. Combine those two traits and we see that mobile is generally a more rounded and diverse market than social networks could be. It has both itsPuzzle and Dragonand itsMonument Valleytitles, itsHay Dayand itsMinecraft. As a result mobile is on course to become the most revenue-valuable platform of them all, beating even console and PC. It also means its big enough for some studios to consider a different approach to marketing.Such as, for example,Game of War.Game of Waris a formulaic take on a genre of lite strategy games common in mobile(tablet and phone).The actual game is so-so, butGame of Waris doing something very interesting inits marketing strategy.Machine Zone (the studio responsible for the game)castKate Upton as the face of the game and then proceeded to shoot somehigh production value television commercialsto promote it. The ads showed Ms Upton leading armies, inspiring soldiers to vanquish dragons and other feats of derring-do. Then  and this is the really interesting bit  they ran theseads in prime time between downs in NFL games with a rumored $40m behind them.And its not alone. Supercell is doing something similar with numerous ads forClash of ClansandBoom Beach, again in prime time sports.OneBoom Beachadvert shows three fresh soldiers encountering an identical three whove been smoked by flamethrowers in a comedic scene. As with the Game of War ads they are high in production value,looking like trailers for decentanimated movies. I find both intriguing and wonder who else is going to do the same. Blizzard, for example, just produced a beautiful trailer for its upcomingGnomes vs Goblinsexpansion forHearthstone. Although availble on multiple platforms,Hearthstoneis primarilythought of as a mobile game. Will it soon feature in an ad campaign on TV too, much as Blizzard already does withWorld of Warcraft?It leads me to wonder who else could be using these tactics as opposed to hoping that Apple will feature them as a ticket for success. What if, for example, someone had paid to advertiseMonument Valleyon TV? Might it have sold 50m copies instead of 5m?Say what you like about the inefficiencies of a console publisher likeSony, EA or Activision, but the one thing they know how to do is sell an experience. They essentially treat a big game much like Marvel treatsAge of Ultron. Youve seen that trailer, right? Of course you have. Everyone has because it was a thing that had to be seen. But why? Because of the promise of experience.It was through that trailer, through the direct watching of it and the supporting social buzz that emerged around it, that we all became excited. It was through a blockbuster style of marketing that it told you a story, appealing directly to your right brain and not having to tell you to Watch Now! or boast that its banned in Ghana.ThatAge of Ultrontrailer was expensive, but will prove its worth in the long run. Youll pay to see it, to eat popcorn while seeing it and  if it doesnt suck  probably pay to own a digital version later too.The medium is the message and the message is the product, remember. In Marvels case the medium of cinema sends the message of the big experience, and the message disseminated through a high value trailer leads to the will to make a high value product: a big splashy movie. Thats how it earned the right to be thought of as premium. Thats how games do that too.Trailersdont have to cost ten million dollars or feature during the Super Bowl to work. You can be innovative with them and gain buzz another way. However the net effect is the same:High quality experience marketing directly leads to that sense of premium entertainment product, which in turn is why people pay a premium for it. Its why Netflix dumped a fortune into makingHouse of Cards, why game publishers assemble for E3 and run super-quality infomercials. Its why, semi-relatedly, folks willpay $700 for an iPhone but expect Android phones to be free.Now tell me: if I restrictedyou to a format of postage-stamp sized ads and a mandate that each ad had to generateclicks, how likely do you think youd be able to use them to createAge ofUltronexcitement for a game? Not at all. And knowing that, how likely do you think such a product would be to get funded at your studio? Not at all. The message is the product.And since the messagefor mobile games is D-grade, so are the games.In many respects the way that marketing (and therefore products) have been handled in mobile games has tended to boil down to strip-mall tactics. Its penny rich, pound poor, but it doesnt have to stay that way. Indeed I would argue that its unlikely to.The problem with all performance marketing is essentially that it comes with a skinflint attitude, and as such is self-limiting. Whereas blockbuster marketing comes from with an abundance attitude. It asks how much can be spent to inspire, and in so doing what kind of product can be inspiring?Thats why it works on console despite the colossal sums involved. Consoles dont have anywhere near the install base that mobile does and yet console game publishers repeatedly sell millions of copies of key games. Indeed they manage to somehow sell to 20, 30, 40 or even 50% of the entire install base in some cases, which is a ludicrous number in the mobile world. Thats because they know how to sell premium.Whenmobile game companies lose their arrogance about Hollywood tactics and realize that theres so much more they can do, I think it will change the mobile game market for the better. The casinos in Las Vegas eventually realized that there was much more value in building a big experience than penny pinching existing crowds, and in the process turned the town from a seedy den of thieves to an adult Disneyland. They thought in terms of experience rather than performance, and lo and behold made far more money in the process.If we could take that attitude and run with it I think wed stop being so amazed at the idea that a mobile game could charge up front.Just as movies and other games do, the act of selling actively increases the perception of value and therefore price. The message changes, and so does the product. This virtuous cycle then starts to pay dividends.Apple, for example, is more likely to feature you if you appear to be worth featuring, and a major way to do that is to demonstrate intent.It costs a lot, but with the right kind of game it translates into mega revenue, so its worth doing.Dean Takahashi reckons that well soon see a $2bn mobile game, and maybe hes right. But in the longer term I think well see a premium-marketed and premium-priced mobile revolution, more LA and less SF, selling to everyone. Who knows how big thatwillget.