
Mike Hoefflinger is an Executive-in-Residence at XSeed Capital and was previously at Facebook and Intel. Imimpatientto see breakthroughs incars. I havehigh expectations for what Apple will doand respect forwhat Tesla has already done. I agree with Peter Thiel on thewe-were-promised-jet-cars-but-got-140-charactersthing, and with Larry Page, whoworriesthat Silicon Valley doesnt throw the ball down the field enough.So, with all the talk of the Chevy Bolt Tesla-killer, the will-they-or-wont-they joint venture of Google and Ford, the Tesla Model 3 March unveil, the intrigue around AppleCar, GMsunicorn acquisitionof the 40-person self-drivingcar-kit maker Cruise Automation and $4 billion of federal monies for self-drivingcars, its a great time to take stock.GM: Somehow these lovable goofs in Detroit snatched victory from the jaws of defeat with the Chevy Bolt arriving this year (as Wired pointed out, they killed EV1 and sold a mere 80,000 of the hybrid Voltin five years), acquiring Cruises self-driving technology ingredients and betting $500 million on Lyft doing ground traffic control of the autonomous fleet down the road.Tesla: After 10 years of Elon Musk predicting exactly this showdown for the Model 3, it will finally be time for him to compete in the brutal business of $30,000carswith someone whos been to that end-zone before (Mary Barra and GM) andfigure out how he will create demand for 10x as many vehicles per year as he sold in 2015.Apple: By 2019 (and possibly 2020 if theissueswith the internal Jony Ive review this January cause delays), Tim Cook will be three years behind Mary (and two behind Elon). While thatsnotbeen a fundamental problem for Apple in the past, hell need to ship a v1.0 of AppleCarthats more like v1.0 of iPhone than v1.0 of Apple Watch.Google: To be honest, after the non-announcement announcements and non-denial denials, Im confused about whether theyre buildingcarswith Amazon or with Ford. Or both. Or neither. In the meantime, theyve driven the most autonomous miles of anyone. By far.Then it hit me: At sub-$30 oil (a quarter of 2008 levels), theyre all screwed.$2-per-gallon gas is so toxic to (at least U.S.) electric vehicle demand that sales in 2015 actually went down year-over-year (to say nothing of their utterly anemic 1.4 percent share of the market).As gas prices eased, Americas consumers returned to buying Dodge RAM trucks with the 6.4L HEMI V8 (which is why Chrysler is crushing it). Turns out Marys surprise victory, all of Elons hard work, those 100 acres Tim bought in San Jose so he can cover them and do Project Titan R&D beyond spying eyes and all of Larrys millions of autonomous miles driven are all pointless, because we just want to drive trucks.Sigh.But, wait. Dont despair at the prospect of more of the same. This will be the disruption you seek.However, the coming upheaval incarswont be about metal, drive-trains or batteries (or even particular autonomous systems). It will be about the experience inside.For all but thecarenthusiast, acarisnotabout thecar. Or even about the act of driving. It is about getting somewhere in a way that doesnotsuck. If Ubers meteoric rise has taught us anything, its that if you could have someone (or something) drive you, you would.For more than 100 years, driving has been mostly about handling thecar, some about your comfort and a tiny bit about your cabin experience.In the next 5-10 years, as we are increasingly  and eventually entirely  relieved of having to handle thecar, driving will be nearly 100 percent about the cabin experience. Whether you are being moved by fossil fuels or electricity will be incidental (beyond Ben Thompsonsexcellent pointthat electric vehicles are a playing field reset that enables the disruptors like Tesla, Google and presumably Apple).In the cabin, beyond your seating comfort  which has been commoditized  content, connection and physical and digital interfaces will make all the difference.Sound familiar?Thecarwill be an accessory to the most popular device in our lives: the phone.When in the hands of Silicon Valleys user experience experts, this will be so much more than large displays in the dashboard featuring the content, apps and interfaces a billion of us are already familiar with extended to the context of the car.It will be a re-imaging of the entire interior experience in which we will eventually consider things like windshields without wall-to-wall integrated transparent displays for information and entertainment as anachronistic as physical keyboards on our phones (dont scoff, your windshield is smaller than a 65 TV, 4K versions of which are already down to $1,500 today, and millimeter-thin transparent displays of that size have already been shown by LG, Panasonic and Samsung), and wonder where mixed reality glasses have been all our lives.That  pardon the terrible category name  is a smart car.Remember that ugly 2015 market share picture for electric vehicles?Replace electric vehicle with smart car and the picture may well be very different.Ill admit to a lazy comparison, given the greater than 10-100x difference in price betweencars, PCs and phones, but there is no reason that 2019 smart cars cant be tocarsas 2007 smartphones were to PCs: The beginning of a big share shift (although total volume willnotgo up as it did with smartphones and PCs) that will  in many segments  threaten incumbents.Notwholesale displacement (e.g. Nokia, Blackberry, Motorola), but a negative impact in desirable and profitable segments similar to what happened to PCs, which arepredictedto stabilize at 32 percent lower volume than their 2011 peaks. That could mean millions of vehicles less annually for incumbents.In the context of that shift, heres another look at the players:GM (and other OEM incumbents): Look at the interfaces inside yourcar. Do you love them? Turning the rearview mirror in the Bolt into a screen that shows the rear-facing camera is a nice touch, but the incumbents are bringing butter knives to an interface railgun fight in the segments of the market that will be driven by cabin experience. Low-end, trucks and performance will be spared, but the luxury badges need to watch out.Apple CarPlay and Android Auto: Can the incumbents save themselves by turning a screen over to the apps we know? Ive used Apple CarPlay and its a sad-face shadow of an Apple experience.Notquite Motorola ROKR bad, butnotthe winning move.Google: Responsible for 80 percent of our smartphones and leader in autonomouscarsystems. Presumably the supplier to everyone who willnotbuild a completely vertically integrated smart car. May win on volume, but like Android, will lose on profits. Thats a success for them here.Tesla: The best in-cabin experience today (by a country mile). May become Googles biggestfuturecustomer, beating all but AppleCar: Never get involved in aland war in Asia. Never tangle with a Sicilian when death is on the line. And never, ever get into a user experience battle with the hardware/software integration  notto mention velvet handcuff ecosystem  of Apple. While they admittedly appear to be missing other large pieces of the smart car puzzle, including manufacturing, autonomous systems and retail and service, you simply cannot bet against them with three-ish years to go and Tim Cookseemingly ready to play Santa Claus.In the lucrative segments, Apple wins. Google supplies the rest  although a few will try to roll their own.