
Falon Fatemi is founder and CEO of Node.Imagine a world where search engines proactively send recommended articles, people and companies to their users  and all of these recommendations are extremely helpful and relevant. This is an example of using context for discovery, and its the future of the Internet.Unfortunately, todays search engines arent mind readers. Not even close. Its not until the user begins typing the information theyre looking for that the search engine begins to think.But what if the search engine could begin thinking before the user? What if a search engine could take into account the many facets of our lives  our browsing history, our calendar events, our personal connections, etc.  then provide recommendations for us that are unique, relevant and personalized?What if a search engine could do the work for us before we began typing?Thankfully, things are beginning to change for the better. The Internet will soon be about context and discovery, increasing its focus on serving up content consumers dont know they need yet.There are three top shortcomings of the current web.You cant personalize siloed data.Personalization is primarily driven through targeting, but when data is stuck in silos like LinkedIn and Facebook, were unable to synthesize this information into useful connections. Theres no one platform out there collecting and analyzing siloed data, and this leads to a less comprehensive understanding of ones connections.As network technology gets better, networks will be able to analyze relationships between peoples data and find correlations across multiple platforms.For example, a persons current Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn data might not accurately reflect that persons interests, expertise or background. Only by combining data across multiple media can we begin to get amore completepicture of an individual.People are treated like keywords.Rich connections start withsocial data. LinkedIn andFacebookdo a great job of collecting this information, butuntil recently, theyve only used it to create a limited,closed-offecosystem. As a result, Internet users dont fully understand how their social data from LinkedIn and Facebook can be utilized for a fuller understanding of an individual.For instance, lets say that automobiles is a keyword with which somebody is associated. That person might be a driver, a car collector, an engineer, a salesperson or any combination of these things. Our business goals change depending on the persons true connection to the word automobile.Without understanding how a person relates to a particular keyword, our ability to leverage that knowledge is limited.Page rankings are standardized, not personalized.In todays model, group analytics determine page rankings. For example, when a user types the word java into Google, the engine doesnt know whether hes looking for a coffee shop, an island or a programming language. Thus,Google returns a standardized set of results  limited personal data or possible intent arent factored into the equation at all.Personalized page rankings will allow for much more effective search results and advertisements. For business leaders, this might mean the difference between locating a lead thats generically useful  like a senior decision maker  and a lead thats useful for the leaders particular business  like a senior decision maker in the same city and industry.With these shortcomings in mind, lets look at how the future outlook of the web will overcome these challenges.The future of the Internet is all about context, and that future isnt far away. Theres already been anuptick in context-rich systemshitting the market that allow data to be tailored to specific customer situations.Tools likeCharliegive people information about each other before they even meet, and Crystal Knowsis a service that analyzes public data to tell users how to best communicate with specific individuals via email and verbal correspondence.Google is also getting in on the action. The companys acquisition ofTimefulwill only mean great things for the optimization of Gmail into a context-heavy, useful resource, and its newNow on Tapfeature will act as a link between apps to serve up the right information to users at the right time.Everything in tech is moving toward predictive pre-search, understanding user intent and surfacing relevant info based on this data.Before we can fully embrace this future, we need to accomplish three things.Find a way to maximizenetwork intelligence.Finding the right data is just the first step; we need to bridge the gaps and boost our network intelligence. Data by itself is meaningless. Its true value is in the insights we extract from it. Currently available platforms are simply not getting the job done.In the future, networks will have the ability to react to datas context, not just the data itself. Context will be determined by a combination of fourdata layers:Develop cross-platform, universal personal profiles.Every piece of information about individual users needs to be aggregated into one place. This is the only way to fully understand the context of each user and gain a dynamic understanding of his characteristics and needs.For example, if you search for a project manager, you wont see the same project managers that business leaders in other industries are seeing. Instead, your results will be personalized with the information the platform has about you, such as your geographic location, your job experience, your likes and dislikes and the brands you follow.Gain a semantic understanding of user data.Its time to take a step forward in proactively developing insights on users based on the context of who they are and what theyre likely seeking.Companies likeRefresh.io,Rapportive, andFullContacthelp us organize social data, but they lack the context thats required to really unlock the datas usefulness.We need to reinvent the Internet experience and personalize it within the context of whats relevant to each person.The new Internet will stop blanketing all users under one category and start understanding why certain websites are more relevant to certain people. It will be a world where you can type, Whom do I need to know at Dropbox? and have the most relevant faces appear right before you.This will be a world where your customers come to you.