Its go time at the FCC, which is set to vote on new net neutrality regulations on February 26.Today, FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai held a press conference during whichhe repeatedly dinged the FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler for not releasing the more than 300-page proposalin question ahead of the vote. The proposal contains just eight pages of regulation; the rest discusseslegal underpinnings and response to public comment.(You can watch the full confab here.)Regarding the length of the document, a top FCC lawyer added a bit of context to the Scary Sounding Number:To suggest length of #netneutrality order is synonymous w. heavy reg is misleading. 1) Actual regs are only 8 pages. #NNFacts2) The other 324 pages of #NetNeutrality order = legal justification, history of BB regulation, addressing record # of comments. #NNFactsChairman Wheeler has not authorized the release of the document.Pai, as a result, cannotrelease it. He cites FCC rules indicating that unless Wheeler authorizes the documents release, he is not allowed to do so.So Wheeler wants to keep the thing secret until after the vote. That almost sounds duplicitous, doesnt it?The FCCs precedent, as it turns out, is to not release the full text of a proposal before it is voted on. I confirmed that with the agency itself. If Chairman Wheeler is being potentially opaque, at least hes not the first to do so.And its worth noting that his choice to follow precedent is not a surprise in anycase, since he said a month ago that precedent would be followed in this specific case[FCC transcription]:Oh, no, what I was saying was that the precedent here, through Democratic and Republican Chairman, has always been that just like, you know, in the court system, and elsewhere that when youre handling cases like this, you have an internal discussion and then you release what the result of that vote is.And you dont change that decades of precedent overnight without following the procedures to review questions like that.So theres that. I sent Commissioner Pai an email about the point. Ill update this post if I hear back.At the risk of being wrong on the record, Id venture the following guesses: Chairman Wheeler has the votes to pass his plan. That leaves the two Republican commissioners at an impasse: With no direct leverage to change the plan, their options decreasedramatically.Whats left? Hold a press conference to callWheelers plan the presidents, imply that the independent regulator is the executives lap dog, and score cheap points by demanding something that would break historical precedent.Watching politics is a pretty efficient way to wither your soul.