
Josh Guttman is a partner at SBNY.Things are starting to simmer in real estate technology. The first phase of technology development in the category, which wasprimarily focused around listing services for the residential side of the market, has paved the way for industry leaders to broadly reconsider how technology can make their lives better.For those of us in the technology world with some background in real estate, the opportunity may seem obvious. But real estate is a sector of the economy thats created immense wealth without changing their workflows or processes for many decades, so theres a predisposed lack of urgency to upgrade the ol tool belt.The word trillions gets thrown around a lot when people refer to real estate as an asset class. Broadly speaking, real estate is the largest asset class in the U.S. worth an estimated $40 trillion according to thisDecember 2014 reportfrom the Federal Reserve.To get specific, residential housing is the single largest tangible U.S. real estate asset, worth roughly $23 trillion, and commercial real estate accounts for another $15 trillion. To put this in perspective, as an asset class, real estate is meaningfully larger than other U.S. heavyweight industries like fixed income, equity and health care.Real estate lending is by far the largest lending category, belittling credit card debt by orders of magnitude. Residential mortgages alone accounted for nearly $12 trillion as of December 2014 compared with$882 billion in credit card debt. $1.6 trillion in new real estate debt is issued each year  $1.1 trillion in residential and $500 billion in commercial. According tothis reportby Jones Lang LaSalle, annual commercial real estate lending is projected to reach $1 trillion by 2030.The National Association of Realtors is the largest industry trade association in existence with 1.25 million members and there are approximately 3 million active real estate agents in the U.S. There are roughly 500,000 construction professionals and more than 120 million actively managed commercial properties. In summary, theres a whole lot of money changing hands in the sector.Venture funding of real estate technology startups reached a peak in the fourth quarter of 2014, with 32 companies raising nearly $300 million. In total, venture funds invested $605 million in real estate tech in 2014 versus $241 million the year before  more than 2.5x growth. There are a number of signs suggesting the trend will continue through 2015, as the category moves from niche status to one that gains widespread attention.I believe the next phase of growth  and most exciting opportunities  will be fueled by products and services that serve the commercial side of the real estate market.The first technology innovators to focus on real estate primarily addressed the residential market. Companies like Zillow, Trulia,Realtor.com, RedFin and StreetEasy showcased the power that technology can have when applied to a market as large and lucrative as residential real estate. Each of these companies operate, generally speaking, as residential listing services, and this has proven to be the low-hanging fruit of the real estate vertical.Commercial real estate encompasses office buildings, hotels, malls, retail stores, multifamily housing, industrial property, warehouses, medical centersand garages. Thus far, technology innovation on the commercial side of the market has been limited, with two outliers being CoStar and LoopNet.This is partially the result of data that is tedious to gather and dirty  making it challenging to use, industry information that is opaque with incumbents who have incentive to keep it that way, and some of the early momentum that gathered in the mid 2000s being stymied by the financial crisis and subsequent pullback that commercial development and investment experienced.With the economic recovery in full swing and money flowing back into commercial development, some of these roadblocks have been lifted and the market is, once again, ready for new entrants to build upon the work of the early pioneers in commercial real estate technology.Products and services that address the commercial side of the market are more exciting (versus residential) and represent a massive opportunity for a few key reasons:Much the same way that the Bay Area has historically claimed the highest concentration of technology startup development, New York City is the epicenter of commercial real estate.According toCushman and Wakefield, New York City has been the worlds largest commercial real estate market every year since 2010. In 2014, New York City captured 7 percent of global investment with $55 billion. Its only logical that the most important technology businesses serving commercial real estate will be built and headquartered in the commercial real estate capital of the world.Weve already started to see this play out with more than half of the 2014 sector funding happening in New York City. Companies like VTS, Reonomy, Hightower, FieldLens, Honest Buildings, The Square Foot, Onboard Informatics, Nestio and Urban Compass  all based in New York City  are already well on their way to becoming important businesses.The market of potential customers for applications and services serving the real estate market is global, with half the worlds top 12 largest commercial real estate markets outside the U.S. London, Tokyo and Paris are among the top six. Toronto, a city that doesnt appear on most global rankings based on transaction volume, has more industrial cranes installed right now than anywhere else in North America.India and China have been among the most active markets outside the U.S. for real estate technology investment. International startups like Housing.com, PropTiger, Fangdd, Anjuke, CommonFloor and HouseTrip have all raised substantial sums of capital already.Opportunities for innovation using technology abound across the real estate industry. Some of the biggest near-term opportunities for innovation are:The real estate industry is vast and weve only just begun to scratch the surface when it comes to opportunity for technology-enabled innovation. Given the dollars at risk and the proportion of the broader economy that real estate represents, there is every reason to believe the category will produce multiple unicorns worth billions in enterprise value. The past two years have been the most exciting yet for real estate tech and I cant wait to see what the next few will bring.