 Warning  You may be about to see a lot of giganticemoji surface acrosschat apps and other mobile apps. Thats because popular keyboard Fleksyjust added stickers to its iOS and Android apps.Fleksy is one of a number of keyboard apps that havelong been available for Android devices, andmade the leapto iPhones and iPadslast year when Apple opened iOS 8 to third-party keyboards. With a multitude ofcustomization options, quick word prediction and other time-saving featuresof typing,Fleksyhas risen tobecome one of the most prominent keyboards, and now itis adding more multimedia to the mix.Fleksy didnt revealhow many users it has, but it saiddownload numbers have doubled every month since February.With that in mind, ithas madeits apps free for a week to stoke interest  the iOS and Android versions usuallycost $0.99.This isnt Fleksys first foray into images. It paired up with Riffsy to integrate its selection of Gifs into its keyboard, and this time around it has partnered with Imoji, the U.S. company that offersa platformto powerstickers across multiple mobile apps. Fleksy is the first partner to make use of Imojis new SDK, which was released in beta in April and allows developers to access the three million-plus user-generated stickers on Imoji.The Imoji integration is designed to help Fleksy users pull up stickers with ease, it supports sticker selection as youtype. It isnt quite as slick asthat which Japanese chat app Line offers, but it works for multiple apps unlike Line.There are two main ways to add stickers. You click on the Imoji symbol in the top right, which willask you what type youd like, before serving up a selection. You can also findstickers that are trending on the service.Alternatively, if you know what you want, you can use the on-keyboard search bar to look up specific Imoji; or Fleksy will suggest related stickers based on words you have typed.Once youve found your image of choice, you tap it (which copiesit to the clipboard) and then paste it into the chat window. Those who are big Imoji fans can sync their account right into Fleksy for access to their sticker collection.Itested the integration across a range of apps, and it works on messaging apps best  to clarify, I wasnt able to paste stickers into Twitter for iOS, Twitter client Tweetbot or Facebook for iOS. But, for one thing, it did bring stickers to iMessage without the inconvenience of an additionalkeyboard, and within Facebook Messenger I found it easier to use than rummaging through sticker packs, albeit that the content isnt as polished as Facebooks.The integration sounds cutesy on the outside, but theres business potential.We are creating a new interaction paradigm, Kosta Eleftheriou, CEO and co-founder of Fleksy told TechCrunch in an interview. Suddenly there is a whole app interface hiding behind the keyboard.That,Eleftheriou explained, could be used for a lot more than just stickers.The challenge is how do we provide all this content and functionality to users easily, but without cluttering the keyboard? he added. Our answer to that is as-you-type recommendations in the form of hashtags  visually subtle, tapping a hashtag takes you to the relevant content pane.Fleksy is using keyboard real estate to enable stickers, but it could do a lot more than that  for example content recommendations, deals, or more.Eleftheriou wasnt specific about other users, but did caution that a featureshould only be there if it makes sense.For Imoji, the deals marks the first partner of its aforementioned SDK, which Imojis founders saidis designed to create a layer of visual communication across mobile apps.Emojis transcend beyond messaging, COO Jason Stein said. Thepower is being a big database of stickers, almost similar to Giphy for Gifs we want to be the visual vocabulary to power other apps.Imoji is offering its SDK for free  CEOTom Smith said it has seen interest from hundreds of developers  but the future vision for monetization is via a range of relatedservices, not dissimilarto the model that Eleftheriou described.In the future, for example, Smith and Stein said users exchanging pizza stickers could be served content  perhaps a special deal  at a nearby pizza restaurant. Thats the basic premise behind how Imoji could monetize, but the co-founders stressed that theyre focused on expanding the platform at this point.Interestingly, theyhinted also that there could be ways to payImoji power users who create large numbers of stickers.Chat app Line, which is largely credited for pioneering sticker usage, last week revealed that its own user-generated sticker program generated $75 million in sales for the first year. The company highlighted its top sticker makers, butImojis founders believe that they can find a better model for compensating their top users.Theres insane potential when it coms to figuring out a more effective content monetization model than sticker packs [model popularized by Asian chat apps], Stein said, though he isntelaborating on ideas for now.