While todays cord cutters are replacing their formerTV-viewing activities with popular streaming services like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu, the shift away from linear television on to on-demand, online streams has allowed a variety of niche services to pop up, too. Available for a few more dollars per month, viewers now have the option of further customizing their over-the-top video content bundlesby subscribing to bothpremium andniche services offering everything from high-quality television drama, as with HBO NOWs original programming; kids fare, as with Nicks Noggin; or,more recently, made-for-TV movies as with Lifetimes new video-on-demand app; and much more.The problem, of course, with the unbundling of content in this manner is that youll soon reach the point where your monthly expenditures on streaming video are no longer cheaper than cable TV.Think about it this way  if youre already paying for Netflix ($8.99/mo, unless you locked in at the older $7.99/mo rate), Hulu ($7.99/mo) and Amazon Prime ($99/year aka $8.25/mo), then youre spending $25+ on your core line-up. If you add on HBO NOW andShowtime, or perhaps a TiVo subscription for your fancy cord-cutters DVR, then you could easily double that or more.The trick to keeping things affordable, then, may be about knowing which add-on services you want to subscribe to and when. For example, you may want HBO NOW while Game of Thrones is airing, but then choose to cancel it until the show returns for its next season. This will require a lot of juggling on your part, but it also gives you the option of stretching your dollars and being able to sample some of the other on-demand options that are out there.So how many on-demand streaming services are available, beyond the big three? Quite a few, as it turns out.As a cord cutter myself as of the beginning of thisyear,Ive begun makinga list of the additional streaming services that are available today  and its extensive.The majority of these services allow for cross-platform viewing, meaning web/desktop, mobile and TV, though some are limited in terms of which streaming media players they support.Instead of sharing a massive list of the long tail in video streaming, Im choosing to highlight a handful of notable services below. Thisis by no means a definitive list, and its also a U.S.-centric one, to be fair.For starters, there are already a number of placesoffering movies for rent, download or streaming, like Crackle, M-Go, Popcornflix, SnagFilms, VUDU, Warner Archive,CinemaNow, and more. Just browsing through your Roku channel options will present you with more choicesthan you probably will everneed, given the big threes already expansivemovie lineup.Then there are dozens of niche services that span genres. For example, you can find comedy onFunny or Die, watch video games onTwitch, music onVevo, anime onCrunchyroll, andwebseries orother YouTube creator content on Vessel. Ive even caught myself watching Periscopes live streams instead of turning on the TV in recent days.Meanwhile,on mobile and the web, youll also find that a lot of theTV networks also offer their own dedicated apps where you can viewat least some of their content for free. Many of these are TV Everywhere-enabled, which means they open up the gates to pay TV subscribers who can then watch more shows.And lets not forget that there are sites likeYouTube and Vimeo; storefronts like iTunes, Google Play and Amazon; and DVRs for antenna users that let you watch and stream back the over-the-air programming youve recorded.In other words, youre not lacking for options when you cut the cord.But if youre looking to flesh out your lineup with a little more content this year, below are some newer and more interesting services you can try, as well as a couple for your kids.HBO NOW  $14.99/monthHBOs launch of its standalone service HBO NOW this spring was one of the larger announcementsin the video streaming marketthis year. At $15 per month, its a decidedly premium addition  nearly double the cost of some of its competitors. But HBO was betting on the popularity of its Game of Thrones TV series to bring new subscribers in, and that trick appeared to have worked. Its iOS app topped the App Stores revenue charts in May, and held a strong position throughout June as well.The service includes HBOs original programming, such as current shows like Silicon Valley, Veep, Ballers, Girls, True Detective, and more, as well as popular older fare like True Blood, Sex and the City, and The Sopranos, as well as Hollywood movies, documentaries, specials, variety shows and more.HBO is available on Apple devices including Apple TV and iOS devices, as well as through Cablevisions internet plan and as an add-on to Sling TV. (But in the latter case, its over-the-top HBO, not actually HBO NOW.) The app is alsocoming soon to Google Play.Showtime  $10.99/month or $8.99/month for Hulu UsersFollowing in HBOs footprints, Showtime also debuted a standalone streaming service in June aimed at cord cutters. Its a bit more affordable at $10.99 per month, but Hulu subscribers can save even more. Through a special partnership, Hulu users can tack on the serviceto their current Hulu subscriptionfor just $8.99/month, as Hulu is using Showtime to help it acquire more users.Unlike HBO NOW, Showtimes service offers two live streams (East and West Coast feeds) in addition to its on-demand content.Showtime also hosts a number of original programs, including Ray Donovan, Masters of Sex, Homeland, The Affair, Penny Dreadful, Shameless, House of Lies, Nurse Jackie, Happyish, Episodes, and coming soon, Billions and Twin Peaks. Its sports programming includes Showtime Championship Boxing, 60 Minutes Sports, and Jim Rome on Showtime. And it, too, offers a selection of Hollywood movies.The Showtime app runs onon Apple devices including the iPhone, iPod touch, and Apple TV, as well as on Roku and PlayStation Vue. However, by teaming up with Hulu, Showtime can be accessed anywhere Hulu works which is nearly everywhere.Hulu works on iOS and Android devices, Apple TV, Xbox One, Wii and Wii U, Roku players and TVs, PS3 and PS4, Amazon Fire TV and Fire TV Stick, Chromecast and various TVs and Blu-ray players.CBS All Access  $5.99 per monthCBS has withheld much of its content from streaming services like Hulu (where it doesnt have an equity stake), and instead runs its own standalone service called CBS All Access. The company, perhaps mistakenly, bet on live TV feeds as something cord cutters would want, and now offers live TV in over 60% of the U.S. through its streaming video application, in addition to on-demand shows.As a TV network many can receive over-the-air with a digital antenna, theres not likely as much demand for CBSs service as there is for something like HBO NOW, but for those who want to watch CBS content on other platforms, while out of the home, or who dont get good reception, the service could be handy.Included with CBS All Access is nearly 7,000 episodes of CBS programming, including current and past seasons of popular shows like The Good Wife or Blue Bloods, for example. Unfortunately, CBS doesnt make all its top shows available for binging which is a big drawback given the price. For instance, you can only watch 7 of the most recent episodes from The Big Bang Theory on the streaming service. Meanwhile, new episodes appear on the app the day after airing, and the app offers classic programs, movies, daytime and nighttime shows, too.But CBSs service may get a little more interesting this fall, given that it has potentially found a hit with the upcoming drama Supergirl. The show is popular even ahead of its debut  the pilot leaked online, which was either an accident or a brilliant marketing move, and its trailer was viewed over 10 million times in a week.Subscribers to CBS All Access can watch on CBS.com, or via mobile apps for iOS and Android, the CBSRoku channel, and Chromecast.Sling TV  $20/month + add-on packagesSling TV, Dish Networksnewer internet TV service aimed at cord cutters is primarily about watching live cable TV shows, but its biggest draw is that it has scored a deal with ESPN. That means you can watch SportsCenter without a cable TV subscription as well as tons of live games. In addition to ESPN, the service offers streaming shows from networks includingESPN2, AMC, A&E, TNT, Food Network, History, Travel, TBS, HGTV, Disney, CNN, Bloomberg, Lifetime, Cartoon Network, and others.You can alsooptionally subscribe to variouschannel packs for an additional $5 per month to add more sports channels, kids channels, movie channels, or Spanish-language channels to your Sling TV subscription. And you can tack on HBO for another $15 per month.Sling TV works on a variety of platforms, including Mac, PC, iOS, Android and number of streaming media players such asAmazon Fire TV, Nexus Player, Roku and Xbox One.However, it doesnt offer much for binge-viewers, as few of its shows include full seasons. At best, there are usually only a couple of older episodes available, if any. Instead, its more about tuning in to see whats on now  something that doesnt quite make sense in todays on-demand world.Noggin  $5.99 / monthViacom-owned kids network Nickelodeon entered the subscription video marketearlier this year with its own over-the-top streaming service aimed at the preschool crowd.Noggin, as theservice is called, launchedon iOS with a decent selection of kids titles, including a few popularnames, like Blues Clues. The app includes16 sections of shows and music to choose from, each with dozens of videos to watch. The content is actually recycled stuff  itstitles come from the old Noggin network, which was later rebranded Nick Jr.That means the service is offeringlesser-known, older brands, like Pocoyo, Franklin & Friends, Ni-Hao, Kai-lan, Robot & Monster, and more, as opposed to Nicks better-known characters and shows likeDora, Diego, PAW Patrol, Max & Ruby, Peter Rabbit, Bubble Guppies, Wallykazam, Wonder Pets, or Yo Gabba Gabba.But not too surprisingly, kids dont seem to care as long as the content is fun. Still, at $5.99 per month, the price is a little high for what youre getting with Noggin  especially since theres already plenty of kids stuff on Amazon, Hulu, Netflix and YouTube.Feeln  $3.99 / monthAnother option for families and older kids is Feeln, the rebranded ad-free subscription service from Hallmark (yes really) which used to be known as SpiritClips. The service, which works online, on mobile devices, Roku, Xbox 360, and some connected Samsung TVs, is focused on family-friendly content. That is, its movies will not contain excessive violence, language or nudity. It also doesnt offer up movies with divisive social issues or political agendas, and its selection is vetted for quality and positive messages, the company says.If that sounds like a bunch of hokey content  well, it kind of is. Feeln is home to those often-cheesy Hallmark Hall of Fame movies (A Dog Named Christmas, When Love Is Not Enough, e.g.  there are a lot of Christmas titles on Feeln.). But it also has a smaller selection of Hollywood movies, though many of them are older, like Annie Hall, Moonstruck, Hannah and Her Sisters, Chocolat, West Side Story, etc. Plus, it has dozens of original short films that Feeln produces itself as well as original shows.Its kids line-up is fair, too. Feeln has rebooted Rainbow Brite, for instance, so Gen Xerscan enjoy a little nostalgia with theirsubscription.The service has a female bent to it  and sometimes a Christian vibe (you can find Noahs Ark and The Ten Commandments on here, e.g.)  but its basically inoffensive content thats safe to use as an iPad babysitter with your kids thanks to shows like Madeline, Paddington Bear, Busytown Mysteries, and movies like Spy Kids, Annie and a range of cute dog saves the day-typestuff.And I guess if you want to sit around and get weepy as someone finds their true love on Christmas, you can do that, too.Lifetime  $3.99 per monthSince were on the top of melodrama, its time to mention Lifetimes brand-newsubscription video service which just came out this month. called LifetimeMovie Club, the service offers around 30 movies at launch for $3.99 per month. The movies are ad-free, and new titles are added weekly. However,theyre not the movies that are currently airing on TV A&E-owned Lifetime is pulling titles from its library to feed the new service instead.Lifetime is known for a certain kindof movie, and youll certainly find those here alongside othersyou dont want to admit to having watched, like incest-romance Flowers in the Attic, for example, or Too Young To Marry. The service is programmed by season, apparently  the theme at launch isSummer Lovin, and feature thingslike Sex & the Single Mom and One Hot Summer.In the past, cable TV allowed niche networks like Lifetime to find small audiences, but as viewers switch to streaming services, its unclear if Lifetimesguilty pleasure-filled denof lower-quality fare will be able to convince users to sign up and pay monthly.The same goes for any of the above services, really. Will viewers be willing to pay for niche content, when giants like Netflix and Amazon regularlyrotatetheir catalogs, fund theirownshows, and now, evenproducetheir ownmovies?It should be interesting to see how the landscape evensout in the long run.If anything, the rise of niche services is an opportunity for Hulu, which has already begun distributing Showtime. If Hulu turns itself into a dashboard for all your streaming add-ons, it could very well become a much more viable alternative to payTV than it is today.Email me your favorite niche video service, or your Netflix recommendations: sarahp@techcrunch.com