Start your own venture firm.Thats the advice that one of the industrys first femaleVCs, Kathryn Gould, gave to other women, and itcame to mindyesterday as I watched aninterview given to journalist Emily Chang this week by longtime Sequoia Capital investor Michael Moritz.Chang asked Moritz about Sequoias responsibility to hire women, as Sequoia has no female investment partners on its U.S. investment team.Adjusting his collar uncomfortably, Moritz said hed like to think that the firm is blind to somebodys sex, to their religion, to their background. He added that there is, in his view, a pipeline problem to explain the dearth of womenat Sequoia. I think the issue begins in our high schools, and where women particularly in America and also in Europe, tend to elect not to study the sciences when theyre 11 or 12. So suddenly the hiring pool is much smaller.Asked if Sequoia might not be looking hard enough, Moritz said that Sequoia looks very hard. . .We just hired a young woman from Stanford who is every bit as good as her peers and if there are more like her, well hire them. What were not prepared to do is to lower our standards.Numerous outlets have sincesuggested that Moritz put his foot in his mouth by associating women with low standards. Facebook commenters were no more generous, with some smartly pointing out that Moritz himself was a history major.Im not going to defend Moritz. But focusing anger at him, or at Andreessen Horowitz, or at Benchmark, or Accel Partners (none of which employ any female general partners, save for Accels Sonali De Rycker in London), is somewhat misguided. Top-performing, male-dominated venture firmsarentgoing to start hiringfemale GPs because the press thinks theyshould. Venture teams are usually precarious unions to begin with, and when teams do work well together, theres little incentive for them to bring in someone who doesnt feel like a very natural fit.Should we be dismayed by this? During a different period in time, the answer would certainly be yes. But morewomen who want to be venture capitalists can and arestarting their own firms. Aileen Lee of Cowboy Ventures, Kirsten Green of Forerunner Ventures,Cindy Padnos of Illuminate Ventures, and Jennifer Fonstad and Theresia Gouw of Aspect Ventures are among a small group of peoplewhove already struck out on their own. My guessis that five to ten yearsfrom now, well have many more female-led venture firms created by thosewhove enjoyed some degree of success in their careers and beginfundingstartups on a full-time basis.Thanks to the democratization of startup funding, theresnothing to stop them other than having the financial resources to get started, and thats not as big an obstacle for women as it once was. Consider:Women are now the equal, if not the main, breadwinner in four out of ten families, according to Pew Research. More women are now getting bachelors and advanced degrees than men. More are enrollingin competitive computer science courses than ever in history, too.Though women (maddeningly) continue to earnon average79 cents for every dollar earned by men,that gender wage gap is also closing, particularly for recentcollege graduates. According to economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,female graduates with certain degrees are nowearning more than males with the same majors.Indeed, if theres a major obstacle to becoming a venture capitalist in coming years, it will undoubtedly center on financial inequality, which has been aroadblock for many since the industrys start.Itsa dirty secret thatmostentrepreneurs benefit from some kind of financial support; its no different in VCwhere, becauseoutside investors want to know a VC has skin in the game, a VC typically hasto make up roughly 3 percent of his or her fund with a personal check.Thatsexpensive. Consider that one or two partners trying trying to raise a $50 million debut fund have to come up with $1.5 million themselves. Theyll collect management fees off that capital  the standard is two percent annually for the funds investment period  but they have to use that $1 million per yearto pay for everyones salaries, along with rent, auditing,legal costs andback-office administration fees. That doesnt leave much, which is whyhaving something tostart with helps.Does it matter that most VCsalready have money from either asuccessful exitor some other source of financial support? Are they better at picking startups because of it? No one really knows, but itd be nice if we could get to that answer somehow. (New crowdfunding rules are great, but they arent likely to help those who want to become professional investors.)In the meantime, I wouldnt worry too much about women specifically. I expect to see more of themwiththe degrees, the networks, and the resources to become VCs no matter what traditional firms like Sequoia do in terms of hiring.Gould, who cofounded the venture firm Foundation Capital 20 years ago and who passed awaylast week, thought the same.I think the problem [of women in venture] will go away, she said. It wont be through those firms hiring women, butbecause other firms like [Lees firm] Cowboy Ventures will grow up around them.Correction: The original version of this story stated that VCs collect 2 percent in management fees over the life of a fund; they collect 2 percent of the funds total amount on an annual basis over its investment period to cover their costs.