I spent a good good part of my weekend clearing my office of a couple of decades of accumulated software. As I discarded dozens of 3.5 floppies and CDs,and recycled piles of boxes and documentation  the flotsam and jetsam of an earlier computing age  I realized just how much easiercomputing is in 2015.Not all that long ago, therewere no app stores and software came in paper boxes. Upgrades didnt happen automatically or with the simple click of a button. Instead, everycouple of years, peoplepaidhefty fees forthe latest and greatest advancements in computing, and everyonehad to experience the pain of installing new software for themselves, and trust me, it was often a mind-numbing process.The good news is that complexity has given way to simplicity, whether we are talking about using, managing, maintaining or even storing software. It all so mucheasier to handlenow.Many services I use on a regular basis today like Google Docs, GMail, Evernote and Dropbox were all born on the Web or in the cloud and never came inboxes. Heck, my MacBook Air doesnt have any way to add physical software short of downloading it, even if I wanted to install the old-fashioned way. Today, whenI want software, I just go to theapp stores or search online, and I usually find exactly what I want, often for free or a very small fee. This is in stark contrast to earlier times when Iwould have to paya hefty pricefor software.And of course, the beauty of cloud services, whichI takefor granted now, is that thesoftware is just there when Ineed it on whatever device Ihappen to be using  which is at it should be.Early computing involved the highlydeliberate act of loading software. To further complicate matters, I had to create backup copies in case something went wrong with theoriginal because the owner wasresponsible for the physical media. Eventually I wouldgo through the time and expense of upgrading and doing it all over again  and all the while, those boxes kept accumulating on myshelves.We see the cloudas the norm now, but if you are over30, chances are you know it wasnt always as easy as going to the App Store. In fact, those of us old enough to remember early PCs before big hard drives and graphical user interfaces, know you could run your software on a couple of 5.25 inch floppy disks. Software was more compact back then.Eventually, it got bulkier, and if you had a big product like Word, it took a pile of3.5 inch floppies to load it onto your machine. And yes, installing wastedious swapping out those disks, especially if something went awryin the middle (which happened plenty). We progressed to a fewCDs and eventually to a DVD or two and it got much more manageable, but even as the media got more efficient, the burden of installationnever went away.Early softwarecame with paper documentation with detailed instructions on how to use it. A complex piece of software like Macromedia Director involveda couple of humongous volumes and required an enormous box to accommodate the books (which took up a fair bit of space on my shelf). Times changed though and software companies, always looking for an edge eventually realized that they could save money if they reduced the size and contents of the packaging. The paper documentation gradually gave wayto a Getting Started guide, with the bulk of the instructional materials delivered in the form of online help or a PDF.Over time, the boxes themselves for the most part, went away with the advent of Web and cloud services.The low price and ease of installingsoftware hassurely simplified my life as an individual user, but it has created a revolution of sorts in the workplace where workers,tired of wrestling with clunky enterprise software, quite rightlywant theirsoftware to work as well in the officeas it does for themat home. Whats more, because of cloud computing and themobile devices wecarry, wedont have to put up with it  and this dynamic has shifted the balance of power in the workplace. Its tough for IT to dictate what people can use when they can install software so easily themselves.Software is no longersome expensive and magicalentity only IT can understand. Its just a couple of clicks away for anyone, even the most non-technical among us. Thisease of use has democratized computing. We have come a long way from struggling with installations and reading dense documentation to figure out how an application works.It hasnt been all bad for IT either, even while their role has beenevolving inside organizations.It has simplified life for them as well. Just like me, they no longer havedeal with all of the management headaches associated having software on-premises, and the complexity of managing software isa magnitude higher inside a large organization.As my personal computing style shifted from the desktop to mobile and the cloud, it happened so gradually, it would be easy tothink that this is the way its always been. But the act of cleaning my office, drove the point home for me. Computing has changed in a big way, and its just somuch more straightforwardnow.