The New York Times is giving out free Google Cardboard VR devices. Yes, again! The company had previously distributed a million some devices to print subscribers as part of the kickoff celebration around its then-new NYT VR app, built in collaboration with Google, back in November 2015. Today, the media company says it will send out another 300,000 Cardboard viewers to its most loyal digital subscribers.The NYT says it will calculate loyalty based on the duration of their subscriptions, so it doesnt seem like newer subscribers will make the cut.This time around, the distribution is part of a larger effortto promote a new VR film called Seeking Plutos Frigid Heart, which will allow viewers to fly over Pluto and see its rugged mountains and bright plains for the first time, as well as stand on the planets surface while viewing its largest moon.The film was developed by The NYT in partnership withthe Lunar and Planetary Institute and the Universities Space Research Association in order to create accurate 3D virtual worlds using data collected fromNASAs New Horizons spacecraft.The film is narrated by science reporter Dennis Overbye and produced by Jonathan Corum, Graham Roberts, Yuliya Parshina-Kottas and Evan Grothjan from The New York Times graphics desk, says The NYT. The original music was scored by Graham Roberts and performed by Jessica Ferri, Mio Kanehara, Daniel Ambe and Nobuki Momma. Also of note: Themusic was recorded using a 360 microphone, so the sounds can travel with the viewers movements.The idea that VR can help transport viewers to far-off lands is not a new one  Google offers an Expeditions app for classrooms that lets teachers guide students on virtual field trips to destinations around the world, for example. Meanwhile, a startup calledSpaceVRhas just raised $1.25 million with theaim oflaunching high-def360-degree cameras into space in order to bring the cosmos to VR headsets.In other words, a journey to Pluto should serve as compelling content that will bring new users to both Google Cardboard and The NYT VR app, if they havent already given it a try.Launched in November, The NYT VR app lets journalists tell their stories in a new format  immersive, 360-degree video. Its past stories have includedthose that focused on things likethe global refugee crisis as it impacts children, the U.S. elections, border control issues between the U.S. and Mexico, terrorism and more. But onlya few are more fun, like the story about dolphin and whales secret language, for example.The new Pluto experiencewill be among this smaller group, and one of the few films thats really about taking a journey for the funthat comes from being immersed in a new environment, along with the chance to learn more about the topic at hand.The company says that the app has been downloaded more than 600,000 times across both iOS and Android  a decent-sized number, given VRs newness. Though its unclear at this time how many of its users are regulars, and how many actually watch using their Cardboard device rather than without it.(While The NYT VR appworks with Google Cardboard specifically, for those who dont have the device, theres a smartphone option as well.)Seeking Plutos Frigid Heart will be published on May 19th to The NYT VR app. The Cardboard devices will be shipped next month to the addresses associated with readersNYT digital subscriptions.