Updated: After several days of deliberations, a San Francisco Superior Court jury has come to a conclusion in Ellen Pao Vs. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the gender discrimination trial that began with a lawsuit filed in May 2012 and culminated this past month in a closely watched five-week-long courtroom trial.The jury has ruled no on all four claims Pao leveled against Kleiner Perkins. This is a unequivocal finding in favor of Kleiner Perkins.Just as a refresher, since there have been a lot of details bandied about these past few weeks, Paos complaint boiled down to four claims. Here they are in question form, along with the jurys answers on them:You can see the official verdict form as it was filled out by the jury here.Paos legal team was asking for approximately $16 million in lost income, and stood to receive an additional $144 million in punitive damages. Now that Pao has lost, she must pay part of Kleiners trial bills, including its expert witness fees.This final verdict came at approximately 4:30pm Pacific Time, after one major false alarm. The press was initially called to the courthouse for a 2:00pm Pacific Time verdict reading, which was at first also No on all four claims. But when the judge individually asked for each of the jurors rulings verbally, he found that the fourth claim, on whether Paos termination from Kleiner Perkins was an act of retaliation for filing the lawsuit, had reached only an 8-4 ruling. Each claim had to reach a consensus from at least 9 jurors.It seemed at first that this was a simple math mistake. But it turns out that one of the jurors had changed his decision between the deliberations and the verdict reading, without telling the others (there is buzz that several jurors turned their heads in surprise upon hearing a yes from one of the male jurors on the fourth claim, though we didnt see that from our vantage point.) The jury was then escorted out of the courtroom to continue deliberations, and the audience was ordered back into the hallway.After nearly two hours of additional deliberations, the jury returned to the courtroom with a final verdict of No on the fourth claim. The first two claims had a jury consensus of 10 to 2, and the fourth claim was at 9 to 3 (the third claim was not eligible for a vote, since the consensus on claim one was no.)Kleiner Perkins has released the following statement on the verdict:Todays verdict reaffirms that Ellen Paos claims have no legal merit. We are grateful to the jury for its careful examination of the facts. There is no question gender diversity in the workplace is an important issue. KPCB remains committed to supporting women in venture capital and technology both inside our firm and within our industry.Ellen Pao also held a short press conference in which she read a statement. You can read about that, and see video of her remarks, here.You can read all of TechCrunchs posts about the Pao Vs. Kleiner trial here, or by clicking the banner below.And thats all  weve left the courthouse, which has been shut for the day. Thanks for watching, and well have more updates and analysis in the days ahead.Only two jurors have agreed to speak to the press  one who voted no on all claims, and one who voted yes on all four claims. Were in a room at the Courthouse as these two jurors tell the press why they voted the ways that they did.Were ushered to another room in the court to hear Kleiners statement.KPCBs lawyer Lynn Hermle calls it a long difficult trial. The lawyers, and peanut gallery are told to leave the room. One juror elects to take the back door.Juror #2: I think we had a lot of issues that we were very close on. It was very difficult to split on those situations. We did the best we could as twelve total strangers with different perspectives.Juror #6 calls the trial decision One of the post difficult decisions hes ever made and said he made the decision based on the evidence presented.The jurors are free to leave. Ellen Pao is giving a statement outside. A juror thanks Judge Kahn for making this as pleasant as you can for $3.50 a day.Judge Kahn is talking to the jury about speaking to press. If they dont want to speak to press, they dont have to. They are now free to speak to anyone about the case.The case against KPCB is dismissed on all claims. Again.Juror 12, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 11, on the fourth claim: Yes.Juror 10, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 9, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 8, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 7, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 6, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 5, on the fourth claim: Yes.Juror 4, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 3, on the fourth claim: No.Juror 2, on the fourth claim: Yes.Juror 1, on the fourth claim: No.Jury files in. Hopefully, the last time they have to see each other.Judge is back in and wearing his robe again. He had taken it off while answering the jury question. We are back in business. Jury hasnt filed in yet.Someone has lost a cellphone. Black with burgundy trim. Its announced in court. The woman who lost it rushes outside.We have a verdict (again)! being summoned back into room now.You could not have written a more dramatic climax here, with the entire courtroom in limbo as the jury tries to sway one person. There are 20 minutes left on time.And now we have to leave again.No verdict yet, this is a jury question. Theyre asking for clarification on the fourth count, the retaliation question.And were back in.https://twitter.com/SFSuperiorCourt/status/581589962761445376 Apparently the jury has a question, according to the SF Superior Courts Twitter account.Still waiting. The guy who has been sleeping throughout the entire trial is still sleeping as we wait. Here is a drawing of him by courtroom artistVicki Behringer (Courtroomartist.com).Fun fact, the third claim is directly tied to claim #1, so it wasnt ruled on at all.We could be here for a while. On the rest of the claims, the jury had a 10:2 ratio. On the fourth claim, it was 8:4. That means they need to bring one person over to the no side, or five people over to the yes side.Looking for more court-related reading while you wait? Here is a post by a lawyer about why the jury members arent Googling this (or any) casehttp://techcrunch.com/2015/03/27/thou-shalt-not-google/We are all still waiting here in the hallway! FYI, the court has typically adjourned at 4:30 throughout the trial, and often earlier on Fridays.Weve just heard from a source that KPCB expects the verdicts on the first two claims to stand, no matter what happens with the fourth claim. Jury is still out on the fourth claim, literally. But the other three should hold. Partial verdict is what the hallway chatter is calling it.Here was Kleiners spin on the firing at the time: http://techcrunch.com/2012/10/03/not-so-fast-kleiner-perkins-says-it-did-not-fire-ellen-pao-looking-to-facilitate-her-transition-out/Scenes from outside the courtroom. This is pretty much how everyone, but especially the jury is feeling right now.
While were waiting we can take a stroll down memory lane! Here is the TechCrunch post about Paos termination: http://techcrunch.com/2012/10/03/eileen-pao-is-out-at-kleiner-perkins-tells-quora-that-she-was-fired-as-discrimination-case-continues/The claim in question is whether or not Kleiner Perkins retaliated against Pao when they fired her in October 2012, about five months after she filed her lawsuit. Anecdotally, many courtroom watchers have said in recent days that that may have been the strongest of all four claims.Just to confirm here everybody: There is no verdict yet. A dispute on one of the four claims puts a hold all the entire ruling.2:44pm  False alarm as were almost led back into the courtroom. There are over 50 people waiting outside to get back in, including press, lawyers, the courtroom artist and sundry lookyloos.