
David Nordfors is the co-chair and co-founder of the i4j Innovation for Jobs Summit together with Vint Cerf. There is a common misunderstanding about the coming automated economy that may destroy us all.Mostpeople in business and finance(and most people, frankly) think that the new economy (of artificial intelligence and autonomous machines)is likethe old economy:satisfying customers needs for products and services.Thats just not so.The real heart of the new economywill beabout helping people need each othermore.No, Im not talking about themarket for dating services. To builda neweconomy (and a decent, functional society), innovation must help us need each other more and in better ways to bind us to each other. If innovations disintegratethose bonds, and decrease our mutualneed we will head downhill.When we no longer need each other, its all over.In the end, we are all here for each other.Many people in the business worlddont understand that. Not that they disagree: they just dont get it. Permit me to explain, because we can all win if we get this right.Those leaderscaptaining the economybelieve, legitimately, that they create the economy by selling customers needed products and services, generatingtherevenues that create the markets and GDPs that enable societies to endure.An economy is indeed about satisfying customers but thats not exactly the same as selling them products and services.Many business leaderswillsaythis isacademicnonsense, that its the same thing.Butby not seeing the distinction they cannot see whether they are helping or hurting the marketand their customers.Plus,in that distinction lies the biggest business opportunity in history.The distinction is explained by the difference between macro- and micro-economics. Macro-economics knows that people must earn in order to spend. The worker and the customer are the same.In micro-economics the customer and the worker are different: one earns, the other spends.Corporationslive in the micro world,theyinnovate and automate, lay off the worker to deliver a better deal to the customer. The customer is king, not the worker.But customers who have lost their jobs are weak kings; their biggest need is to get a good job with a reliable income. When business tries to satisfy their need to earn by helping them live ever more cheaply, the economy is plunged into a paradox: economic growth always means increased revenues.Andthis competition for increasing revenues can ultimately shrink the economy creatinga growth-profit paradox. Companies lay off workers to serve customers who lost their jobs in other companies who laid them off to sell cheaper. The paradox is fueled by the race against the machine.There is a solution to the paradox, but it is not what some micro-minded techno-anarchists are suggesting: to let innovation automate all jobs and offer people universal basic income.In this vision of the future, people wont need to work for money and can instead spend their time doing meaningful things.Freedom actually begins only where labor which is determined by necessity and mundane considerations ceases, said Karl Marx a century ago. His vision was a society where technological innovation provides people with everything they need, where nobody is anyone elses servant and everyone is equal.But Marxs Communism failed and will continue to fail.The core concept of community is that people depend on each other. A society happens when a cluster of people are bound by a network of personal commitments.It is a self-organizing, self-reinforcing network of commitments between individuals that shapes a common language for trust, ethics, law and practice in which each committed individual has a stake.This common language is the basis for any economy, culture or society. Therefore, everyone is a customer, nobody a worker is a recipe fordisaster,it will dissolvesocieties because the interpersonal commitments and thus the personal stakes evaporate. Joblessness and exclusion also threaten societies,for the same reason.But whereeveryone is a customeranda worker, on the other hand, good societies evolve and prosper.Utopians who point out that Finland is introducing basic universal income have not understood. Finland needs fewer pensioners and more workers or their economy will crash within a few years. No politician will raise the pension age and force elderly voters back to be job-seekers.Shifting from pensions to universal basic income can be a solution, one might say that instead of raising the pension age to seventy, they lower it to seventeen.We discussed these things at the i4j Helsinki Summit. The Finns are aiming to reinvent the Nordic model; it is the opposite of utopian communism.The solution to the growth-profit paradox is to move from todays task-centered economy, focused on lowering the cost of tasks, to the people-centered economy that increases the value of people, which I havewritten about before.The most powerful way to create new value for the customer is creating new valuewiththe customer, with the help of innovation. The customer is the worker is the capital.TheKauffman Foundations NEG New Entrepreneurial Growth Agendaincludes a piece where I show how a people-centered businesscanalways beat a competition of task-centered businesses, as long as innovation is good enough.In the people-centered economy the micro-economy is fully aligned with the macroeconomy. Now the customer is a worker for countries and enterprises alike. For both, the customer-worker is the capital they invest in. GDP and revenues both grow when the customer-worker increases in value.The people-centered economy solves the growth-revenue paradox. It knocks down the wall between labor policy and innovation policy, enabling governments to co-invest in innovation-for-jobs ecosystems that disrupt unemployment, giving people good jobs instead of welfare.The step from the task-centered to the people-centered economy may seem large. But while it is a fundamental shift, it is really a small step, easily taken, by simply adding an Innovation-for-Jobs ecosystem to todays economy. This ecosystem integrates entrepreneurs, investors, policymakers and others engaged in raising the value of people. Read more about it in my contribution to theKauffman Foundation New Entrepreneurial Growth Agenda.With support from Kauffman, Google, Cisco and others,i4j, the Forum I co-chair with Vint Cerf, is moving tomake the Innovation-for-Jobs Ecosystem happen. We are assembling the players and we have published our vision in a book,Disrupting Unemploymenttogether with special chapters by an impressive list of i4j thought leaders.In my previous column, I pointed to how Sebastian Thruns Udacity hasswitched to a people-centered business model. The Gates Foundation, the Lumina Foundation and others are priming a market for connecting investors to education for work.Education startups are creating business around income-share agreements, where students can go to college without paying tuition. Instead, they pay a part of their income for a few years after they graduate and get a job. Thus the income-sharing startup invests in the students. The ROI is the difference between the tuition fee they pay and the income-share they earn.Vemo Educationis presentlybuilding such a projecttogether with Purdue University. This gives them an incentive to get the student a well-payed job after college.Imagine a standalone company, no college involved; their best clients may be talented kids from poor families who, helped by the startup, can choose their college and be coached to a great job. If this concept takes hold, as I think it can, colleges will end up negotiating fees with these new companies, instead of with the studentsomething like health insurance and care providers, today.Pave, recently funded at roughly $300 million, offers a lending platform for millennials wanting to achieve a goal in life. Lets say a kid wants to be a scriptwriter. Someone who believes in her talent may cover her costs and be a mentor.This model offers the mentor personal satisfaction as well as ROI if the kid succeeds. In the people-centered economy, the Pave-mentor might not need to cover college tuition fees that could be covered through an income-share agreement instead. Think aboutSteven Spielberg as the mentor. An income-share agreement will be a safe bet, the kid could become a star. So Spielberg can negotiate a very favorable income-share agreement for the kid.This creates a new, more successful, human capital market where more people will have a stake in the individual success of others. This can be the future of work, the future of business the future of capital investment.Because in the end, from the individual worker to the typical family, to the largest functional entity one can imagine, we are all here for each other; the best economy is where we invest in each others personal success.