In the beginning, there were three.There was Leap Transit, the Andreessen Horowitz-backed bus startupstocked with Blue Bottle Coffee and furnished with plush stool seating for morning and eveningcommuters.Then there was the Nightschools nostalgic take withoff-duty schoolbuses for late-night transport between the East Bay and San Francisco after the regions commuter rail systemBARTshut down for the night.Then there was Chariot, a no frills, functional take that founder Ali Vahabzadeh set up in about 10 weeks with commuter vans. After talking to scores of MUNI and Uber users for three weeks last January, Vahabzadeh decided to launcha service that spring. Commuters told himthey were frustrated with thecapacity problems both systems facedduring peak hours.So Vahabzadehrented vans, hired drivers, got commercial vanpool insurance, a gasoline line of credit, procured parking, built a basic website, and started taking credit card payments  all within a few months.Our service is completely vertically integrated, he said. We source the vans, drivers, gas and insurance and we actually hire our own drivers as opposed to making them 1099 contractors.More than a year and a half later, Chariot isthe only bus startup left in San Francisco. Theyre doingat least 35,000 rides to date 40,000 rides per monthand have gotten the average price down to $4 per ride with many customers using commuter benefits.The other two bus startups gotembroiled in regulatory issues and ended up in thedeadpool. Leap faced a cease-and-desist from the California Public Utilities Commission when it started operating before it had an official licenses and came under media scrutinyfor not having disability access. Nightschools model, where it leased the buses instead of owning and operating them outright, also put it into legal gray area at a time when it didnt have enough venture capitalto persistthroughthe process.Vahabzadeh stressed that a key point ofChariotssurvival has been that the company has been above-board with the law from day one.They havent cowboy-ed it, said San Francisco supervisor Scott Wiener, amass transit advocate who recently pushed for a master subway plan for the city. Theyve been good about taking feedback and making sure theyre complying with the law. Im a fan and think that private transportationoptions andrideshareshave a significant role to play in making us a transit-first city.After their initial flagship route through the Marina and Financial District, Chariotaddedbus lines out to the Western side of the city and through the Haight-Ashbury neighborhood.Because Chariot is a consumer web and mobilestartup with a direct relationship to itsusers through an app, the company can flexibly add or take down routes based on consumer feedback. Theyve crowdsourced ideas forroutes from users through Tilt, another YC-backed crowdfunding company.Well only launch certain routes if X numbers of users sign-up and provide their credit card details. Once we reach a certain number, their credit cards willget charged for the first monthly pass. If it doesntTilt,nothing happens. We think this is a great way to take risk off our tables and get the community involved inputting together better commuting options for themselves.They can also quickly remove under-performing bus stops or routes. Forexample, the startup took down severalCole Valleystopsabout a month after launching.This is a totally different process than the citys public transitsystem, which handlesorders of magnitude more volumethan Chariot with 700,000 passenger boardings per day. On the one hand, transit planning is painfully slow. Its taken more than a decade and a half to discuss and planBus Rapid Transit routes on Geary and South Van Ness, forexample.Bus Rapid Transit (or BRT) produces routes atfaster speedsbecause they involvespecially-designed bus stopsand exclusive lanes. San Franciscos system currently operates at a speed of 8.1 miles per hour. Its the slowest major urban transit system inthe country,and the most expensive per mile to operate.Latin American cities like Mexico City andBogota, which have been much faster to adopt BRT than San Francisco, rely heavily onit. But San Francisco has been slowpartlybecause merchants keep objecting to losing parking spaces in front of their shops. A few months ago, dozens of residents along a proposed BRT route projectobjected to having 200trees replaced to make way for the bus line, a $158.8 million project.On the other hand, the MTA and MUNIwont quicklyshut down bus stops if there isnt enough demand, which could leave lower-income or more vulnerable residents hanging. Aprimary concern for transit officials runningpublic systems, unlike those running private companies,is equity and accessibility.This isnt to say that Chariot intends to crowd out MUNI. Its moreto say that public systems and private bus startupshave different approaches to route-planning and managing customer relationships, and that they might be complementary. In fact, Chariotcould one day be a vendor to public systems with its consumer-facing apps and route-planning andmanagement software.Yet this hasnt stopped a worthy discussion that is politicallysensitive at times about whether private transit startups will foment disinvestment from public systems, much as the rise of the private automobile in the mid-20th century undermined subway and mass transit systems decades ago.In the history ofCalifornia, transportationhasserved asa potent visualsymbol of power, access and then, exclusion.When the railroad trackswerelaidacross the state a decade after the1849Gold Rush, Leland Stanfords railroad companySouthern Pacific wasmemorably iconizedin Frank Norris novel as the Octopus, a beast with tentacles in everything from the farms of CentralCalifornia to the Gilded Agemansions on topof Nob Hill.The progressive reformer who broke the hold of Southern Pacific on California, Hiram Johnson, campaigned for governor using the newly-invented privateautomobileas asymbol of his clean break fromthe state governments corrupt past.Then, of course, theGoogle Bus became a potent symbol of income inequality and displacement in San Francisco last year for affordable housing and tenants rights activists.Wiener said he didnt see Chariot and other ride-sharing services eating into MUNI or MTAs load.I hear that concern and people articulate it, but I just dont see it, Wiener said, pointing to how voters passed a $500 milliontransportation bond last November. Even if you add up all of the shuttles and all of the ridesharesand every single private option, its dwarfed by the number of people who rely on public transit.Then, of course, plenty of companies arerapidly experimenting with cars fromGoogle to Tesla to Uber and probably Apple.If startups andtech giants are planning for the future of the car, then who is doing the same for larger-format vehicles and shared transit?