Apple is expected tounveilnew iPhones at an event next Wednesday,and likely alsonew iPads and an updated Apple TV.Press invites for a September 9 event at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium droppedlate last month bearingthe usual teasing hint this time focused on Apples voice assistant Siri.September is the month Appletraditionally refreshes its handsets so new iPhones are a dead cert. Heres a quick round-up of the tweaks Apple watchers are expecting this time aroundiPhone 6S and iPhone 6S PlusApple finally introduced a phablet-sized iPhone at its event last year, the 6 Plus, expanding its handset portfolio to address the rampant screen size inflation ofrival phones running the Android OS. Given how long it took Apple to make that move, its unlikely to radicallyrethink its handset line-upfor a while  so a refreshed iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are expected, likely following Apples typical naming convention of adding an S afterthe model name.But what of the 4-inch iPhone 5C?9to5mac reckonsApple will be discontinuingthe plastic-clad not-actually-that-budgethandset after its latestportfolio refresh, with no immediate replacement  although there are ongoing rumors its working on a new 4-inch iPhone to fill the gap. Most Apple watchers are only expecting two new iPhones this fall.Same shape, more robust feelApple typically follows a two-year designrefresh cycle for its smartphones so after the rebooted look ofthe iPhone 6 and 6 Plus last year its pretty safe to assume theiPhone 6S and 6S Plus will be sticking with the samemetal +rounded-edgesdesign.That said, Apple did have to endurebendgate, as people all over the Internet discovered that putting an iPhone in their jeans pocket and sitting on it for long periods was probably a bad idea. So a more robust metallic shell looks likely. Supply chain leaks last monthsuggested Apple is switching to lighter but stronger 7000 series aluminum.Also possible: a new pinkish color option, alongside the existing gold/silver/gray metallic tones.Faster processor, largercamera sensorBetter internals are a staple update for Apple hardware so a faster A9chipset (plus other chipset upgrades) and more RAM in the new iPhones are incoming. 2GB of RAM is expected.Also on the cards: larger camera sensors. Photographyremains a huge focus for Apples iPhone marketing, with its shot on the iPhone 6 campaign, so its no surprise the companywould be spending to keep improving the hardware here.The upgraded rear camera is slatedto be equivalent to a 12 megapixel sensor, and expected to support 4K video recording. The front-facing FaceTime camera is also expected to get a sensor upgrade  and given the continued popularity of selfies (not to mention rivalsmarketingselfie phones)thats pretty safe thinking fromApple.Force Touch and Taptic engineApple introducedanother interfacelayer to some of its mobile devices this year in the form of itsForce Touch pressure-sensitive input method. The tech debutedon the Apple Watch and is also on Macbook trackpads. And its now widely expected to land on iPhones(and likelyalso iPads).Writing for 9to5mac yesterday, Apple tipster Mark Gurman said Force Touch will be one of the cornerstone features of the new iPhones  and will also be amore sophisticatedversion of the tech vs what weve already seen on other Apple hardware, with support for three types of input: a tap, a press and a deeper press. Hissources claim this implementation will be called 3D force touch.Apple is also slated to embed theTaptic engine tech it debuted on the Apple Watch into the new iPhone screens to provide haptic feedback to users.Now haptic, pressure-sensitive touchscreens arent new tech per se. Those with a long memory might recall BlackBerrys ill-fated foray into making a clickable touchscreen, back in 2008, for instance. So effortless execution is definitely essential here  to avoid turning something slickly straightforward intosomething that feels fiddly and confusing.How Apple expandsinput complexity on its iPhones without sacrificing the core simplicity of devices that haveplenty of fansfar outside the geek fringewill certainly be interesting to watch.SiriGiven Apples voice assistant is the focus of the press invite its unlikely to be overlooked during the actual event itself. Asking Siri for a hint about the forthcoming Apple event surfaces some typical Sirisnark, along withsome equally typical voice recognition failures so theres plenty of room left for Appleto improve the core tech.That said,the flagshipSiri upgrade coming next week may well not be related to the core tech or to Apples new iPhones at all. Rather it mightbe about embeddingthe voice assistant tech into a new device thats slatedto be introduced with the newApple TV (a TV remote control).If thats the case, Apple continuing to foreground Siri on devices other than the iPhone, where it debuted, is a shift worthy of note (see also: theApple Watch). Especially given thatit apparently intendsto step up the touch-sensitive sophisticationof its smartphones (i.e. via 3D Force Touch).Apples thinking in and around Siricould thus be summed up as: handsets are the highly personal mobilecomputerswere most comfortable handling, while wearables and in-home hubs are keyboard-less techs were mostlikely to want/need to talk to at a convenient distance  making the latter categories more of a natural home for Siri than the iPhone.