
Jasen Yang is the founder and CEO of Polly Portfolio.Fintech, the (faintly uncool) term for financial technology, is booming these days. But its wrong to think of fintech as a single sector. There are two very distinct types of fintech innovation that entrepreneurs, consumers, investors and regulatorsneed to be able to tell apart.To understand the distinction, its helpful to take a look at venture-backed innovation in general. Modern venture investing has its roots in two very different kinds of businesses: computer technology businesses and health-science businesses (stereotypically, drug development).What those two businesses have in common is massive scalability once an effective solution is found. But where those two businesses look incredibly different are their development life cycles. Part of that is regulation  health scienceis heavily regulated; softwaregenerally isnt. But theres a much deeper distinction  the role of time in the product.Particularly when dealing with software, when a computerized product works, it works fast. Emails get sent, documents get saved, data gets analyzed, chats get snapped, machines get learned Computers can respond within a single Bergsonian moment  the passage of time isnt an intrinsic part of the user experience.Medicine is different. There, the passage of time is core to the product experience. Health is intrinsically intertemporal; weeks, months or years are needed to fully gauge the impact of a course of treatment on a patient. As a result, the product development life cycle is necessarily extended, with accompanying effects on business life cycles.Upfront investment amounts have to be larger, earn-back periods have to be longer. And that makes sense  it would be hard for a biotech startup to declare victory anywhere as quickly as a software startup might (which isnt to say markets dont jump to conclusions).These two models can be applied to fintech, or really finance in general, in a very natural way. Finance is about transporting value, and that can either be transactional (i.e., payments, settlements and exchanges, including the provision of data) or intertemporal (i.e., investment, insurance and borrowing).Transactional finance is about enabling or facilitating value exchanges between parties and has been the site of fintechs earliest and clearest victories. Transactional innovations meet their users needs immediately, often with very transparent benefitsover incumbent business models.Once the innovation was the credit card; now its PayPal, Stripe and other payment solutions (and even bitcoin, as far as that has gone).Marketplaces emerged, from eBay to electronic securities trading: Mint.com, Yodlee, Addepar and other data innovators  even the Bloomberg terminal. It shouldnt be surprising that some of the more software-like financial innovations have been relatively quick to establish an advantage over the traditional way of doing business.In contrast, intertemporal finance is about moving value across time. (And thats usually where financial risk gets taken.) Savers invest now in order to retire later. Borrowers spend money now but have to service their debt into the future. Insured parties buy policies now to manage risk later.But innovations in intertemporal finance take longer to prove their value to users, just as it takes a while for clinical trials to validate the value of a new medical compound. Do the savers get to retire? Do the borrowers pay back their debt? Are the insured protected from risk? As a result, these types of businessesfrequently require more resources to build. That said, thats where some pretty largerewards lie for both innovators and society; investing, financing, capital markets and insurance are some of the largest markets in modern commerce.There is, however, a terrible danger when intertemporal finance gets mistaken for transactional finance, and transaction volumeovershadows the finaloutcome. This is essentially the underlying story of every financial crisis, large or small. In the subprime crisis, I saw firsthand how mortgage originations and securities issuance overshadowedthe final outcomes for the borrower or the mortgage owner. In the late-1990s tech bubble, IPOs overshadowedthe prospects of the offered companies. In the Savings & Loan crisis, balance-sheet growth overshadowedbalance-sheet soundness.So whats the point?Here are three takeaways for anyone involved with an intertemporal fintech venture.Is it fair to judge Stripeby its transaction volume? Absolutely. Is it right to judge peer-to-peer lenders by their origination volume or roboadvisors by new customers onboarded? Not really. Like a newly discovered drug compound, the real benefits of these innovations need to prove out over time. Loans funded or assets under management might be business milestones, but theyre not success.Success might look a bit more like minimalborrower defaults or clientreturns over the cycle.Frustratingly for todays startup zeitgeist, those measures resist easy quantification as weekly KPIs, but uglythings happen when youre keeping your eye on the wrong ball. Its hard to imagine now, but there was a time (2006?) when it was thought Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch might leave Wells Fargo and Chase straggling behind, giventhe growth they were achievinginthe structured finance market. No need to finish thatcomparison.Obviously, growth is key to great business outcomes. But biotechinvestors looking atpre-clinicalventureshave to focus on other things.The team. The science. The need.So when looking atfintech innovation that needs time to show its value, those criteria have to be just asimportant asearly growth rates.Some industries, like payments, are largely regulated today for compliance and interoperabilityreasons. In contrast, healthcare, investing, insurance and lending are heavilyregulated for a different reason. That reason is becauseitsawfully hard for users to know whats best for thembecause it may be months or years before a patient or client or borrower canunderstandthe consequences of their choices.So there, regulations exist to provide protections. But regulations are deeply imperfect. On one hand, they canstifle innovation. But on the other end of the spectrum,weaknesses in the regulations can permit problems to slip through  witness theapproval ofVioxxor thehorrific outcomes of day traders inforeign exchange(technically not a security). Sothe onus is on those of usbuilding innovations to consider the full implications of what were doing, not just tosatisfy regulators or fit a marketing story.When those innovations earn their stripes  and Im confident many of todays intertemporal financial innovations will  the benefits will be significant.But participants have to remember that not every fintech business shouldbe modeled on a software business, and for financial products that benefit from clinical trials,theres just as much to learn from health-science innovation (and venture investing).