Everywhere you turn these days, companies are being challenged to transform, innovate and think like a designer.The problem is its not an easy undertaking to change the way a large organization operates. Real initiative gets bogged down in politics, hierarchical thinking and institutional inertia. Change requires more than inspiration. It takes hard work  and often the skill of a used car salesman to sell your idea to a reluctant C suite.Some companies have forward-looking leaders who encourage this type of behavior. I wrote recently about Vishal Sikkas attempts to instill design thinking at Infosys. Sikka seems to understand the value of getting his employees to shift their thinking and be idea-driven. More often though, these types of proposals are driven from the bottom up, and in these instances its much more challenging to convince the Powers That Be to implement a radical idea.Its up to motivated employees to try and figure out how to navigate this thorny path. The innovators also need to understand, it cant just be about cool ideas or change for changes sake. It has to drive real business value, help sell more products, get customers more interested and have a measurable impacton the bottom line.Real entrepreneurs understand failure is part of the process. They dont give up easily. Instead they pick themselves up, dust themselves off, adjust and iterate. You need to keep trying and if you are under pressure to succeed or else, its going to be difficult to get truly innovative projects going in your company.The number one reason we see customers get stuck is figuring out how to convince the board. Almostexclusively failures happen when you dont have buy-in from the board, Paddy Srinivasan, vp of products at Xively told the MIT Sloan CIO Symposium this week.One way to build trust is to start small and build a body of work. Do work that results in a track record of innovation or what you can articulate as innovation, says Marshall Van Alstyne, aBoston Universityprofessor and research associate for the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy.Jerry Wolfe, who runs a company called Vivanda, which started as a small experimental project inside of the spice giant, McCormick, says weve reached a point where we have to think more creatively about how to connect to consumers.Theres only so much you can do with 30 second TV spot or a banner ad, he said this week at the MIT Sloan CIO Symposium.Theres only so much you can do with 30 second TV spot or a banner ad. Jerry Wolfe In Wolfes case, his team created an app called FlavorPrint, which creates a fingerprint for your tastes based on 20 questions. It then presents you with a list of recipes based on your answers. It provides a digital way to engage directly with the audience, and more importantly it has resulted in increased sales of McCormick products, according to Wolfe. Thats the kind of results that gets executive attention (and gets you spun off into a separate company).As companies developthese products, its essential they keep their customers at top of mind because the reason for building these tools is to improve your connection with them.Once you create a digital connection to your customers, you need to take advantage of that connection  and customers are going to have different expectations when it comes to engagement in digital channels.That means that companies need to start thinking about customer service in a digital context.With technology today, everyones becoming connected and it offers a unique opportunity to forge relationship with consumers. Customers expect to be engaged. They expect you to know how they are using the product. They want instant feedback when they run into issues, Srinivasan said.Just this week, Salesforce.com updatedCommunity Cloud, its product that lets customers share information with one another and answer questions. The idea behind the product was to relieve pressure on service desks by letting customers help each other.This is particularly important for companies just entering the digital channel because staffing customer service 24/7 can be an expensive and difficult undertaking. Letting your customers loose on the problem relieves some of that burden.As customers interact with your digital tools, you can begin to learn more about them and that data you collect can be an invaluable part of going digital. At its best, youre providing new ways for your customers to interact with your company, and as they do, they tell you lots of information about themselves and how they use your products.You build brand loyalty and get happy engaged customers. Thats a big win for any organization. There are several things you can learn once you start listening about how your product is being used, when its being used and under what conditions, Srinivasan said.You can begin to use that data to build premium service products, something that corporate customers in particular are willing to pay for, he explained.The fact is that companies cant afford to stand still. There is tremendous pressure to offer more digital experiences with customers and interact with them online socially. Customers are demanding it and it is particularly difficult for older established companies used to doing business a certain way.Its absolutely essential that companies begin experimenting with these types of projects and offering customers the types of fun and interactive experiences they are expecting today. When thinking about this, its important to get information up front and begin to work from a position of strength.The other thing is talk to people who have done it. Its such a complex set of issues. Its harder to experiment and fail than to talk to someone who understands design principals and has done it successfully, Van Alstyne said.If you want proof of how this works, consider General Electric, which has set up the Performance Marketing Labs, a place to experiment with this type of transformational change. GE is an industrial giant, but it understands it cant just rest on its pastsuccesses. One project that came out of this lab is a game calledcalled Patient Shuffle. You navigate through an emergency room, and its a good way to explain how GE and the electronic medical records businessworks, Andrew Markowitz, general manager of the lab, told me last Fall.Fidelity Labs is another place where this type of work is going on. The lab produced a product called FidSafe, which provides a safe online repository for digital records such as wills and trusts, the kinds of records people have traditionally stored in a safe deposit box. This product has done so well, its graduating from the lab and being moved to the purview of the main product team.The bottom line is you cant stand stock still like a corporate deer caught in the headlights of digital transformation. You have to make some moves, try things and understand that not everything is going to work. When it does, it can have a dramatic impact on how your customers perceive your organization and the ways you interact with them  and ultimatelyyour bottom line.