
Samuel Scott is the director of marketing and communications at Logz.io.Despite the popularity of mobile applications such as Peace, Blockrand Ghostery over the last year,adblocking will be the least of digital advertisers problems in 2016.According to a report released by theInteractive Advertising Bureau (IAB) in December 2015 (the first official study of its kind), online advertisingfraudnow costs advertisers$8.2billon per year. Thats a nine percent increase from the $7.5billionfigure thatThe AdContrarian Bob Hoffman, the retired CEO and chairman of Hoffman/Lewis Advertising,unofficially calculated in June 2013.Specifically, the IAB found the following major reasons (the full reportisin PDF form here):The non-human trafficpart stems from the fact that few people do notunderstand the true definition of an impression. The term does not refer to one human being seeing an advertisement one time. In reality, it is one web browser making one request to be served with one advertisement from oneadnetwork. Thats all.For more technical information on server requests, I wrotethis informational guide on Logz.io last year on server-log analysis(in the context of digital marketing). Essentially, human eyeballs have little to do with requests  and that fact makes the impressions data in ad reports essentially worthless.Why is this important? Just under half of all Internet trafficis bot traffic. Every time that a bot loads a webpage, the browser makes a request for anadnetwork to load an advertisement  and that action counts as a paid-for impression even though no human being will seeit. In such an environment, I do not understand why anyone runs CPM campaigns (that charge a price per 1,000 impressions) at all. Advertisers are paying for impressions that no one sees.Themalvertising-related activitiespart refers to website owners trying to maximize ad revenue by doing things that are immoral at best or illegal at worst. As I explainedin a talk at Performance Marketing Insights London (PMI London)in late 2015, here are four common examples:The allegedfrauddoes not stop at the level of website publishers. A March 2015AdAge investigation reportedly foundmassive amounts of kickbacks between media buyers andadnetworks.Advertisers give money to media buyers to buy online advertising which, as we have seen, is already suspect  and the media buyers purchase ads from advertising networks. Then, the report alleges, theadnetworks send part of the money to corporate siblings of the media buyers. To top it all off, media buyers have also been allegedly overcharging advertisers by lying about how much the placements have been costing.MediaPost contributor Reid Tatoris once crunched allthe numbers and found that, as a result of bot traffic and onlinefraud, only eight percent of digitaladimpressionseven have the chanceto be seen by human beings. But advertisers are paying for 100 percent of impressions.(The third significant loss of advertiser money in the IAB study was due to infringed content, which is people accessing non-free programming and musical content without paying for it. That topic is not a focus of mine here.)This issue is rarely addressedin the marketing and advertising worlds. At PMI London, speaker and after speaker touted the line that programmatic advertising is the future usually because they represented companies that make money from programmatic advertising in one way or another  but disregarded questions onthefraudthat is inevitable whenever machines runad campaigns.But the problem goes deeper than that. Most of the entire Internet is funded by a general agreement on this principle: Digital advertising delivers equal or greater ROI to businesses than other available marketing strategies. If 92 percent of onlineadimpressions are never even seen thereby proving that the premise may be false then Google, Facebook, the online news publications that inform our social discourse and countless other online companies are all in trouble. No wonderno one wants to talk about it.So, before theadtechworld catches up, here are a few of the waysI have found that digital advertisers can protect themselves:As Director of Marketing and Communications for log management software company Logz.io, I am one of the team members who discusses and determines which marketing activities we will pursue. We have done little online advertising, partly because of the issues that Ipresented here  and$25billioninadspend was under reviewby big brands in 2015, as well.Time will tell if others will follow suit in 2016.