
Kevin Petrie is the technology evangelist at AttunityDigital privacy is on the ropes, and public cynicism is running high. But there are glimmers ofinnovationin what could be a new phase forBigData: empowering the customer.Fitbit and usage-based insurance (UBI) programs are prime examples of ways in which individuals can choose to trade personaldatain a transparent market transaction. Organizations that make this possible, treating customers likedataowners, can distinguish themselves competitively, increase brand loyalty and reap financial rewards. According to a recentsurveyby SDL, about half the consumers in the U.S., U.K. and Australia are willing to share personal information with vendors in exchange for loyalty programs and/or product/service incentives.I think a defining moral issue of the next decade will be that nobody should know more about your life than you do, said Alistair Croll, founder of Solve For Interesting, in his keynote address at the Strata + Hadoop World conference in San Jose, California in February. Croll asserted that we are in year zero of a 10-year phase in which modern culture will be transformed by a life feed of information flows that Amazon, Facebook, Google, Apple and Microsoft have the power to orchestrate.But all of us, businesses and consumers alike, have a role to play. And the businesses that invite their customers to engage in transparentdata transactions will create outsized benefits on both sides of the trade.Wearable health devices make sense: informed people make better lifestyle decisions. And informed doctors provide better care, creating the right incentive to share vitaldata.Startups likeCipherHealthenable individuals to send sleep, diet and exercise metrics through wearables such as Fitbits to their doctor. Signs of risk prompt a reminder call to the patient, to ensure they visit the doctor when blood pressure spikes, their weight drops, etc. and solve problems before they get out control. This is just the start: Apple Watch and Apple HealthKit are spawning the creation of apps that help consenting users take their medication, adjust exercise, get recommended screenings and find the right doctor.One Dropis a free new app for diabetics to track and share their glucose, food, insulin and physical activity in exchange for tips about eating and living better.Technology is helping a trend that is on the rise. Seven in 10 U.S. adults track a health indicator for themselves or someone else, and a third of those sharedatawith others, according to research by thePew Internet Project. Nearly half of them say personal health tracking has changed their approach and/or prompted new questions to their doctor. The results are reduced hospital visits, fewer costly hospital visits and better patient outcomes. Both sides benefit.Parents, commercial truckers and individual motorists now have the option to track their driving behavior with vehicle sensors, feeding personal driving profiles that are factored into auto insurance prices from companies such as Progressive. Both parties know more about their risks, and the resulting insurance price is more accurate. In addition, concerned parents and fleet operators are better able to reduce their risk. Cars are just the beginning. In April,John Hancock Financialstarted offering discounts to policyholderswho wear Fitbits or other personal health devices. More steps lead to higher discounts.For decades, vendors have offered willing participants freebies for their opinions. I recently provided my coffee preferences and some demographic datain exchange for free airport Wi-Fi. This was entirely voluntary, as I was given the option to pay instead. But I chose to get my free Wi-Fi, and one or more vendors gained some customer insights, although to be honest I dont buy enough coffee to merit close study.Loyalty cards of all types have the same premise. Any financial services or retail company can apply the model to their customers: Let us understand you better and we will serve you better.There is an argument that all of this feeds the larger problem. Consumers are losing their privacy, and its less of a choice each day as large companies essentially force customers to forfeit theirdatato play. We all need to surrender our social security numbers and tax records to get loans, for example. You dont need to be a conspiracy theorist to foresee a Faustian bargain consent to a totally monitored world emerging from these trends, writes UC Berkeley researcher James Rule in a recentOp-Ed piecein the Los Angeles Times. (Disclosure: I received a graduate degree from UC Berkeley.)But I agree with Alistair Croll: Nobody should know more about your life than you do. And companies that practice this philosophy will win in the next decade.