Technology IPOs, written off for the year just months ago, are back. And back in style.Both Square and Match Group posted incredibly solid first-day results today. You cant knock that. All sarcastic tweets aside, the firms priced at a point that allowed eacha nice pop. Thats how you build a damn narrative.A few raw results:Now, to the negatives. Keep in mind for the next section that both companies pulled off an IPO and strong first days. Thats amazingly hard. Comically hard. Not-to-be-knocked hard. So lets unpack it.Down First, Then UpWhen a company goes public, a moderate pop is desired. Thats what I have learned from both by watching the technology market, and chatting with CEOs either going public, or that have already crossed that particular chasm.But, there is a balance. You dont want to leave money on the table, and you also do not, and we can repeat this, fall on your first day of trading. Narratives matter. For context, I give you Levie:IPOs: If your stock shoots up, you left money on the table. If it drops, you screwed investors. If it's flat, you're boring. Aaron Levie (@levie) November 7, 2013How do you price animal spirits? By committee, it seems, and then auction house. I think its fair to say that if you price below your original range, it isnt the best of signs. We know that is true, because, in reverse, when a company prices above their initially proposed range, it is considered to be a strong sign.Moving ahead, when you estimate your price rangeconservatively, and then fail to break out of your initial range when you formally price, its not that great of a sign. A company can, of course, set its range low on purpose, so that when itdoes price at last, itlandsahead of that range,making itlook stronger, even though the resultwas at least partially artificial.Box did that. From TechCrunchs previous coverage:The $11 to $13 price band values the company at more than $1.5 billion. Thats a sharp decline from its last private valuation of around $2.4 billion. So is Box making a mistake, or leaving too much money on the table? I dont think so.Box later priced at $14 per share, ahead of its proposed range.Hortonworks and New Relic are two other cases of the same from recent days. So, you can win at that game.Or not, in the case of Square, which appears to embodythe thirdworst of all possible situations. It proposeda price range that was initially called conservative, and then set its final price dramatically below that range. All that was followed by a strong first day. So, it brought in less capital than it might have  something it certainly needs  and did so during a process that hurt its reputation at least some, only to perform strongly in its opening day.The second and first worst outcomes that Square did avoid, of course, are being flat after under-pricing, and, under-pricing and then falling all the same.Its easy to be a critic. Its easy to write a blog post. Its easy to not build companies. Its easy to not do hard things. I know that.At the same time, I do not think that we should consider the above IPOs to be complete successes. They were strong in the sense that they hit their amended goals. Thats to be credited.But lets not forget that a caveat is not a sin.