
Benjamin Brandall is a content crafter for Process Street.  Im not much of a designer. In fact, Im awful at it.I am, however, interested in how its done. I read and write plenty aboutcustomer success; along the way, (somehow) I foundSamuel Hulicks siteUserOnboard.His detailed descriptions of the user onboarding process in popular apps give designers an idea about how some of the most successful apps in the world keep you from quitting, becoming frustrated or getting no value. It leads by example.After being introduced to Samuels content, I came across a tweet of his linking to the siteemptystat.es, a collection ofemptystatescreenshots thats been taking user submissions since 2013.With my brain still whirring from writing about user onboarding, and equipped withEvernote, I set about collecting material to write a post about what has been called themost overlooked aspect of design.Anemptystateis what the user sees when there is no data to display on the screen. This could be because:Well quickly go through some examples of these three different kindsbefore taking a deeper look into howemptystatescan help increase retention and ensure users get the most out of your app.Gmails New Sign-UpEmptyStateTheway Gmail onboards new usersis great, but what happens when you (eventually) end up in the app itself? Well, it gives you further information in the same format youll be seeing it in the future: emails. It also sendsinstructions on how you can get more value out of the app, all designed to increase user success (and subsequently, retention).Process Streets Zero DataStateLike a lot of apps that rely on the user creating their own content,Process Streets zero datastatetells you how you can populate the app. Templates are the core of Process Street, and without them, thered be no checklists, no need for folders, tags or you get the idea.Eventbrites Error PageEven though its set in a desert wasteland, thisemptystateerror message is inviting, helpful and full of life. Unlike,some error messages, it tells you what you should do next. Nothing in your app should be adead-end.A usefulemptystatetells youwhatits for,whyyoure seeing it, andhowyou can fill it up. There are more elements that well look at later, but anemptystateshould be useful first, amazing second.When designing, think of those three questions (what, why and how) as the formula for re-engaging your user, but also keep in mind that its the bare minimum requirement for anemptystate.This is a big one. Its the most efficient way of continuing your onboarding process good work and keeping your valuable users sticking around. As I said at the start,emptystatescan and should be used to (re)engage your users and help them get success.How canemptystatesbe used to get attention and drive engagement? Well, whats the first thing youd be thinking when you land here?Veryempty. No trips. This tells mewhatthe screen is for, but nothing else.Okay, so thats why itsempty, but the fact Im here probably shows I dont knowhowto add a trip.Bingo. This obvious button and fitting CTA copy tells mehowto solve my problem. If I just saw that I had no trips, itd feel like the app was being deliberately unhelpful.Lets do this again with another app.Zero data and zero help. It tells mewhatthe page is for  displaying selected profiles but nothing else.Now I knowwhyIm here, but not how to solve my problem.Is it just me, or is this app being sort of rude? Anyway, helpfulness is what we like. Now we know how to fix our problem and fill theemptystatewith valuable data. Both of these examplesfollow the samewhat, why, howformula.There are two more things that theres room for inemptystates, and that is personality and benefits. Personality makes your app memorable and pleasurable to use. Benefits help communicate why your app is useful to the user, which increases retention and solves user onboarding issues.Khaylo WorkoutThis tells you what it is (anemptyChallenge screen), why its there (because you havent challenged any friends) and how to fix it (tap the + icon). But thats not all. This empty state communicates the apps personality with aesthetically pleasing graphics and conversational languageandtells you the benefits of challenging others.Lets take a look at another greatemptystatethat ticks all the boxes.BeamlyIve never used Beamly, but thisemptystatewas so helpful I know exactly what the app does. On top of the three basic components (what, why, how), it sneaks in a fun remark and explains the core value of the app to new users or returning users that need a handy reminder.Emptystatesare an excellent opportunity to make a human connection with your users and get across the personality of your app. Just like how web designers like toget creative with 404 pages, emptystatesare no different. Emotional-design guruAaron Walterturns to the hierarchy of human needs for anexplanationof what makes an apps user experience successful; while your app should be functional, reliable and usable, it also should bepleasurable.According toSmashing MagazinesSimon Schmid, there are a lot of ways to make a users experience pleasurable. Ive narrowed down the list he madeto the most relevant kinds of pleasure you can offer withemptystates:Going back to the topic of inboxes, I noticed something interesting about the attitudes of different emptystates; that is, how someinboxes congratulate you for making it all the way there while other apps encourage you to fill it up.What kind of feeling youremptystateconveys depends on the purpose of your app. Hangouts wants you to add content, whereas Outlook (with its Focused inbox, designed to help you read everything important) wants you to remove it.HangoutsWhatever this thing is, its sad. Is that anincentivefor the user to get invites on Hangouts? Design works in mysterious waysOutlookYouveachieved success with the feature. Definitepositivity.Its probably fair to say that most error messages come as a surprise to users. Why not use this surprise to delight them, instead of showing them something that feels like theyre not getting success out the app? After all, an error message isnt what you want your user to be seeing too often, so taking a fun attitude toward it when it does happen could help lighten the mood.Cognito Brain TrainingIm always surprised to see a shark, regardless of the context.TimehopIf youre going to surprise me by saying my Internet connections down, at least do it in a cool way, like with time travel and stuff.Finally, lets leavethe realm of design and delve in to more comfortable territory for me: copywriting.The central focus of your first-useemptystatesshould be (re)selling your users on the benefits of your app. Your user onboarding process wont always go as smoothly as you planned, and it might be that after signing up, your app sits as a half-forgotten icon on the home screen for days, weeks or months before being revisited. A userwho stopped using your app during or after onboarding is at the biggest risk of abandoning it for good, so make every effort to:In other words, the old copywriting axiom ofsell with benefits, support with features.Note: If you want a quick overview of writing clean copy, check out anotherarticle of mine onbusiness writing tips.Now, lets take a look at some great examples.Basecamps Projects Zero DataStateI love it when an app tells me what to do, how to do it and why I should care.Dropboxs Team Zero DataStateDropboxs copywriters are so slick. I have no use for this feature, but I did it anyway just to get more material for my swipe file.Because you made it all the way to the end, you get a special reward  a break from my rambling and a clear explanation of what I found whiletearing through as manyemptystatesas I could get my hands on. To recap, the basic questions anemptystateshould answer are:On top of this, you should aim to:Heres where I found theemptystatesfor this article: emptystat.es; UX:EmptyStates; UI Empty States.While Im still on theempty-stateskick, if anyone has some particularly good ones, Id love to see them. Leave them in the comments below, and thanks for sticking with me while I enthused.