Well that took no time at all. Intelligence agencies rolled rightinto the horrorand fury inthe immediate wake of the latest co-ordinated terror attacks in the French capital on Friday, to launch their latest co-ordinated assaulton strong encryption  and on the techcompanies creating secure comms services  seeking to scapegoat end-to-end encryption as theenabling layer for extremists toperpetrate mass murder.Theres no doubt they were waiting for just such an opportune moment to redouble their attacks on encryption after recent attempts to lobby for encryption-perforating legislationfoundered. (Astrategy confirmed by a leaked email sentby the intelligence communitys top lawyer, Robert S. Litt, this August  and subsequently obtained by the Washington Post in which he anticipated that a very hostile legislative environmentcould turn in the event of a terrorist attack or criminal event where strong encryption can be shown to have hindered law enforcement. Et voilaParis )Speaking to CBS News the weekend in the immediate aftermath of the Paris attacks, former CIA deputy director Michael Morell said: I think this is going to open an entire new debate about security versus privacy.We, in many respects, have gone blind as a result of the commercialization and the selling of these devices that cannot be accessed either by the manufacturer or, more importantly, by us in law enforcement, even equipped with search warrants and judicial authority, added New York City police commissioner, William J. Bratton, quoted by the NYT in a lengthy articleprobing the possible role of encrypted messaging apps in the Paris attacks.Elsewhere the fast-flowing attacks on encrypted tech services have come without a byline  from unnamed European and Americanofficialswho say they arenot authorized to speak publicly. Yet are happy to speak publicly, anonymously.The NYT published an article on Sunday alleging that attackers had used encryption technology to communicate  citing European officials who had been briefed on the investigation but were not authorized to speak publicly.(The paper subsequentlypulled the article from its website, as noted by InsideSources, although it can still be read via the Internet Archive.)The irony of government/intelligence agencysources briefing against encryption on condition of anonymity as they seek toundermine the publics right to privacy wouldbe darklycomic if it werent quite so brazen.Heres what one such unidentified British intelligence source told Politico: As members of the general public get preoccupied that the government is spying on them, they have adopted these applications and terrorists have found them tailor-made for their own use.Its a pretty incredible claim when you examine it. This unknown spook mouthpiece is saying terrorists are able to organizeacts of mass murder as a direct consequence of the publics dislike ofgovernment mass surveillance. Take even a cursory glanceat the history of terrorism and thatclaim folds in on itself immediately. The highly co-ordinated 9/11 attacks of 2001 required no backdrop of public privacy fears in order to be carried out  and with horrifying, orchestratedeffectiveness.In the same Politico article, an identified source  J.M. Berger, the co-author of a book aboutISIS  makesa far more credibleclaim:Terrorists use technology improvisationally.Of course they do. The co-founder of secure messaging app Telegram, Pavel Durov, made much the samepoint earlier this fall when asked directly by TechCrunch about ISIS using hisapp to communicate. Ultimately the ISIS will always find a way to communicate within themselves. And if any means of communication turns out to be not secure for them, then they switch to another one, Durovargued. I still think were doing the right thing  protecting our users privacy.Bottom line: banning encryption or enforcing tech companies to backdoor communications services has zero chance of being effective at stopping terrorists finding ways to communicate securely.They can and will route around such attempts to infiltratetheir comms, as others have detailed at length.Heres a recap: terrorists canuse encryption tools that are freely distributed from countries where your anti-encryption laws have no jurisdiction. Terroristscan (and do) build their own securely encrypted communication tools. Terroristscan switch to newer (or older) technologies to circumventenforcement laws orenforced perforations. They can use plain old obfuscation to code theircommunications within noisy digital platforms like the Playstation 4 network, folding their chatterinto general background digital noise (of which there is no shortage). And terroristscan meet in person, using a network of trusted couriers to facilitate thesemeetings, asAl Qaeda  the terrorist group that perpetrated the highly sophisticated 9/11 attacks at a time when smartphones were far less common, nor was there a ready supply of easy-to-use end-to-end encrypted messaging apps  is known to have done.Point is, technology is not a two-lane highway that can be regulatedwith a couple ofneat roadblocks  whatever manypoliticians appear to think. All such roadblocks will do is catchthe law-abiding citizens who rely on digital highways to conduct more and more aspects of their daily lives. And make those law-abiding citizens less safe in multiple ways.Theres littledoubt that the lack of technological expertise inthe upper echelons of governments is snowballing into avery ugly problem indeedas technology becomes increasingly sophisticated yetpolitical rhetoric remains grounded inage-old kneejerkery. Of coursewe can all agree it would be beneficial if we were abletostopterrorists from communicating. But the hard political truth of the digital era is thats never going to be possible. It really is putting the proverbial finger in the dam. (There are even startups working on encryption thats futureproofed against quantum computers  and we dont even havequantum computersyet.)Anotherhard political truth is that effective counter terrorism policy requiresspending money on physical, on-the-ground resources  putting more agentson the ground, within local communities, where they can gain trust and gather intelligence. (Not to mention havinga foreign policy that seeks to promote global stability, rather than generating the kind of regional instability that feeds extremism by waging illegal wars, for instance,orselling arms to regimes known to support the spread of extremist religious ideologies.)Yet, in the U.K. at least, the opposite is happening  police force budgets are being slashed. Meanwhiledomestic spy agencies are now being promised more staff, yet spooks time is increasingly taken up with remote analysis of data, rather than on the groundintelligence work. The U.K. governments draft new surveillance laws aim to cement mass surveillance as the officially sanctioned counter terror modus operandi, and willfurther increase the noise-to-signal ratio with additional data capture measures, such as mandating that ISPs retain data on the websites every citizen in the country has visited for the past year. Truly theopposite of a targeted intelligence strategy.The draft Investigatory Powers Billalso has some distinctly ambiguous wording when it comes to encryption  suggesting the U.K. government is still seeking to legislate a general ability that companies be able todecrypt communications. Ergo, to outlaw end-to-end encryption. Yes, were back here again. Youd be forgiven for thinking politicians lacked along-term memory.Effective encryption might be a politically convenient scapegoatto kick aroundin the wake of a terror attack  given it can be used to detract attention from big picturegeopolitical failures of governments. And from immediate on the ground intelligence failures  whether those are dueto poor political direction, or a lack of resources, or baddecision-making/prioritization by overstretched intelligence agency staff. Pointing the finger of blame at technology companies use of encryption is a trivial diversion tactic to detract from widerpolitical and intelligence failures with much more complex origins.(On the intelligence failures point, questions certainly need to be asked,given thatFrench and Belgian intelligence agencies apparently knew about the jihadi backgrounds of perpetrators of the Paris attacks. Yet werent, apparently,targeting them closely enough to prevent Saturdays attack. And all this despite France havinghugely draconian counter-terrorism digital surveillance laws)But seeking tooutlawtechnology tools that are used by the vast majorityof people to protect the substanceof law-abidinglives is not just bad politics, its dangerous policy.Mandating vulnerabilities be built intodigital communications opens up an even worse prospect: new avenuesfor terrorists and criminals to exploit. As officials are busy spinning the notion that terrorism is all-but only possible because of the rise of robust encryption, consider this: if the public is deprived of its digital privacy  with terrorism appliedas the justification to strip outthe robust safeguard of strong encryption  then individualsbecome more vulnerable to acts of terrorism, given theircommunications cannot be safeguarded from terrorists. Or criminals. Or fraudsters. Or anyone incentivized bymalevolent intent.If you want to speculate on fearful possibilities, think about terrorists being able to target individuals at willvialegally-required-to-be insecure digital services. If you think terror tactics are scary right now, think about terrorists having the potentialto single out, track and terminate anyoneat will based on whatever twisted justification fits their warped ideology  perhaps after that personexpressed views they do not approve of in an online forum.In a world of guaranteed insecure digital servicesits a far more straightforwardmatter for a terrorist to hack into communications to obtain the identity of a person they deem a target, and to use other similarly perforatedtechnology services to triangulate and track someoneslocationto a place where theycan be madethe latest victim of a new type of hyper-targeted, mass surveillance-enabled terrorism. Inherently insecure services could also be more easily compromised by terrorists to broadcasttheir own propaganda, or send out phishing scams, or otherwise divert attention en masse.The only way to protect against these scenariosis to expand the reach of properly encrypted services. To champion the cause ofsafeguardingthe publicspersonal data and privacy, rather than working to undermine it and undermining the individual freedoms the West claims to be so keen to defend in the process.While, when it comes to counter terrorism strategy, whats needed is more intelligent targeting, not more mass measures that treat everyone as a potential suspect and deluge security agencies in an endless churn of irrelevant noise.Even the robust end-to-end encryption thats now being briefed against as a terrorist-enabling evil by shadowy officials on both sides of the Atlantic can be compromisedat the level ofan individual device. Theres no guaranteed shortcut to achievethat. Nor should there be  thats the point. It takes sophisticated, targeted work.Butblanket measures tocompromise the security of the many in the hopes of catching out the savvy few are even less likely to succeed on the intelligence front. We have mass surveillance already, and we also have blood on the streets of Paris once again. Encryption is just a convenient scapegoat for widerpolicyfailures of anindustrial surveillance complex.Solets not be taken inbyfalse flags flown byanonymousofficials trying to maskbad politicaldecision-making. And lets redouble our efforts to fight bad policywhich seeks toentrench a failed ideologyof mass surveillance  instead offocusing intelligence resources where they are really needed; honing in on signals, not drowned out bynoise.