Only two companies have apps with over 1 billion Google Play downloads, and the other is Google. Today Facebook proved just how big a business replacingSMS can be, as its leader David Marcus announced Messenger has now been downloaded over 1 billion times on Android. It joins Facebook and WhatsApp, and Googles Gmail, YouTube, Search, and Maps in this very exclusive club.Messengers strategy of layering modern mobile sharing features over a speedytexting app has paid off, and it looks like Facebooks just getting started. With VOIP, video calling, stickers, voice clips, peer-to-peer payments, location, and a whole platform of third-party content creation apps, Messenger wants to own every way you communicate. And it partially is for well over 600 million users.Combined with WhatsApps streamlined SMS alternative, Facebook controls messaging in a way that deeply insulates it from disruption. Snapchat and Yik Yak might steal a few users from its social network feed, but Facebooks already focusing on the next fundamental communication utility.In fact, Facebook has been subtly baking Messenger munchdeeper into its product.When you graph search for people, like friends who like a certain band, Facebook shortcuts you to ping them on Messenger, not visit their profile. When its a friends birthday, in some cases Facebook now recommends that you message them Happy Birthday, rather than writing it on their wall.Just last week, Facebook overhauled how Messenger handles map and location sharing to lay the groundwork for a slew of new GPS-enabled features. Before, finding where to meet up with people was the domain of Nearby Friends in the main Facebook app.And Facebooks secret weapon in the messaging wars is that chat isnt where it makes its money. Rather than having to cram Messenger full of ads or convince you to buy Sticker packs, it just has to tie people closer to its big brother Facebook where lucrative mobile ads earn enough money to provide for the whole family.Getting to this point wasnt easy. Facebook had offend the pride of its whole userbase by telling them they were required to download whole other app for Messaging. It wasnt sweet, but the medicine went down, and Facebook saw engagement rise once chat wasnt buried in its blue behemoth. Freed fromthe extra weight, Messenger was thin and agile enough to build out its bells and whistles.With former PayPal President David Marcus in command and expert product guy Stan Chudnovsky as his first mate, in just the last six months Messenger has:Meanwhile, the other giant with deep enough pockets to fund a true attempt at owning messaging has spent the past few years distracted by moonshots. Google was late to launch its mobile messenger, which wasdragged down by Google Plus. It squandered its Hangouts products early lead in video chat, and missed on the chance to acquire WhatsApp, which could have turned this into a two-horse race.Instead, Facebook saw that messaging was the center of mobile, the app you use the most times per day. If its the reason you open your phone at first, its wedged a foot in the door to become the second and third thing you do too. And with Chinas WeChat pioneering the chat-app-as-a-portal roadmap, Facebook can just port what works to the rest of the world.After years of people asking what would be the Facebook killer, Facebook happily provided its own answer.