
Ben Schippers is a co-founder of HappyFunCorp.In a world whereengineerstruly are the new rock stars and markets continue to be moderately funded, it is not uncommon to witness or experience theengineering prima donnaeffect. Ive gently suggested this term in the past and it struck a nerve.The way I see it, theprima donna effect characterizes anengineerwho is young, wildly inexperienced and believes he/she (but lets be serious  he)is the greatest engineer since Jimmy Wales.We hireand interview a lot ofengineers. Speaking as an employer, we have an interesting vantage point that may provide a helpful perspective to a buddingengineer,as well as more seasoned, talentedengineers. As the markets soften, its easier for us to pick and choose who we want to work with. What we look for in a new hire is more focused on work ethic and basic professionalism; traits were finding harder and harder to come by.You may be suffering from prima donnaism if the following resonates with you:Major cities, notably New York City and San Francisco, are plagued by this the most. What we find is that you dont have to venture too far outside of these major cities before you see loyalty, appreciation for work and work ethic increase by an outstanding order of magnitude.Similarly, both cities require a premium price tag for qualityengineering, as the cost of living is uncomfortably high. As aprima donna, youre probably expecting to get paid that premium amount. To a potential employer interviewing you, this is a double whammy.With ego leading the charge, we see a lot of the above. We gently cut the interview short and send a thank you follow-up suggesting you need more experience. What we really mean is, Youre not nearly as accomplished as you think.Its important to get back to basics. Its very easy in the ever-changing, fast-paced climate of technology to get way ahead of yourself. What startups (andreally, all companies)want is hard work, commitment and, at the very least, decent hygiene and limited amounts of complaining. The pendulum has swung too far and, as a result, our once quiet, generally nerdy industry is filled with confused, entitled youngsters who will find it harder and harder to acquire work as markets continue to soften.However,all is not lost! Prima donnaism is reversible with focus. With a solid shower, a commitment to showing up on time and, most importantly, an understanding that you dont have all the answers  and thats okay you can be on your journey to getting a real job at a great company  being a juniorengineer.