With the Solo, 3D Robotics (3DR) is launching its most advancedconsumer drone yet. Its a ready-to-fly quadcopter that combines everything the company has learned from its earlier products  and those of its competitors  into a single platform. With the Solo, 3DR also offers a new level of customer support that is pretty much unrivaled in the industry.Unlike almost allof its competitors, the Solo can get video right from any modern GoPro camera (starting with the Hero3+) and streams it directly to your phone ortablet with the help of 3DRs new (and optional) 3-axis Solo gimbal.The new dronelaunches only a week after 3DRs largest competitor, DJI, launched the latest drone in its Phantom line-up. But while the new Phantom is a clear upgrade fromits predecessors, the 3DRmay just have leapfrogged it in a couple of areas.As 3DR Chief Revenue Officer Colin Guinn told me, the companys focus while developing the Solo was to prioritize the user experience. He wanted the Soloto be great for prosandeasy to fly for beginners  all with a focus on aerial photography.To do so, 3DR rewrote its old mobile apps to make them much easier to use, but it also built new smarts into both the drone and the controller.Whats maybe more important than any of the technical features that come with theSolo today is that 3DR is looking at this as a platform that is meant to be updatable and extensible.The maximum flight time for the Solo is about 20 minutes with a camera and gimbal underneath it and 25 minutes without them.Thanks to the companys partnership with GoPro, pilotscan now use their GoPros and start streaming video from them right to their phones, just like you can with the built-in cameras in DJIs or Parrots latest drones.The Solos completely redesigned controller features a small display that shows battery life and other vital information, but it also has an HDMI output, so you could even stream livevideo from the drone right to a large screen or first-person video goggles. The maximum WiFi range for receiving video is about half a mile. Thats less than some of 3DRs competitors and this may be a letdown for some potential users, but its enough for manytypical use cases.To enable video from the camera, 3DR had to work closely with GoPro, Guinn told me. This ability to directly control the GoPro also means you can now start and stop video recordings at will when the drone is in the air. Previously, you had to start the recording on the ground and hope that your video would turn out well  something I also dinged 3DRs Iris+ for in my review a few months ago.The Solo features most of the automatic modes from 3DRs previous drones, including the ability to have the drone orbit around a spot, follow you around or fly a preset track. But the company also learned from how its customersuse these features. You can now, for example, create a track by flying the drone to a number of spots that you want to capture in your video, set those spots as waypoints in the app and then have the drone smoothlyretrace this route This way, you can easily script out your pathand then get exactly the shot you were looking for.The Solo, of course, also comes withall of the standard convenience features users now expect from their drones, including automatic takeoffs and landings and a return to home feature in case something goes wrong.On the technical side, the Solo now features a 1 GHz ARM Cortex A9 processor in the drone as well as an identical processor in the controller. The Solo also features 3DRs new Pixhawk 2 autopilot, but because a lot of the computation now happens on the processor, the autopilot doesnt actually have all that much to do until the user asks it to kick in or something goes wrong. When the computer has to reboot for some reason, for example, the autopilot can keep it in place or  in case the computer doesnt boot up again  fly the drone back to its launch point.Unlike virtually every other drone, updates to the drones firmware can be installed wirelessly, putting an end to complex  and often error prone  updates. Also new and unique to the Solo is the top-loading battery that makes replacing the battery a snap.3DR looks at the solo as a platform. One feature that I think is especially promising is that the Solo has an accessory bay. This means third-party developers can easily create new hardware that can be attached to the drone. 3DR itself will soon launch a Lidar camera for the Solo, for example, that will make it easier to fly the drone indoors. Guinn also told me that the company is thinking about other tools like a ballistic parachute system or an LED lighting system for the Solo.In addition, the Solo can also take third-party gimbals, of course, but it also features easily swappable motor pods. So when you motors break for some reason, itll be easy to replace them or to upgrade them with more powerful ones at some point in the future.As Guinnnoted, its these kind of convenience, safety and platform features that make the Solo stand out, but 3DR has also decided to back its new product with a pretty unconventional guarantee.The Solo can log its flight data in the controller instead of just on the drone itself (having a data log on the drone, after all, isnt all that useful when you experience a fly-awayand your $1,000 machine lands in a lake). Whenever something goes wrong and your drone crashes, 3DRs support team can look at your flight data and if it turns out the crash wasnt the pilots fault, the company will replace or repair the drone and gimbal free of charge, as well as provide the owner with a discount coupon for a new GoPro.If you ignore your low battery warning or manually fly the Solo into a tree, you are obviously on your own, but having this kind of support  as well as a 30-day money-back guarantee  is something new in the world of consumer drones.The Solo will cost $999 without the gimbal. It will go on sale in the U.S. in May and globally in June and July. 3DR has set up partnerships with large retailers like Best Buy and B&H in the U.S., as well as numerous other camera and electronics retailers. The Solo Gimbal will be sold separately for $399.