The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is currently in its weeklong sunshine period before theFebruary 26 meeting that will see the agency vote on new net neutrality regulations. The sunshine period means that the FCC takes time away from external meetings on the topics it is going to vote on. Also, missives sent to the FCC during the period do not make it into the formal record of the issue.That was the situation that saw a deluge of commentary this past week, as groups and Congress tried to get their final say in. Given that I hope you did not spend your past week or so, as I did, reading as many Hot Takes on the issue as I could, lets go over some of the best, and the rest.Commissioner Ajit Pais One-Man ArmyCommissioner Ajit Pai held a press conference dinging Chairman Tom Wheelers net neutrality plan, followed by a fusilladeof media appearances and other utterances. Given that Pais team, the Republican Party, is likely going to lose the upcoming vote, it appears to be his only method of registering dissent.Some clippings:Politico: Pai embraces chief critic role on net neutrality. A sample:Hes more interested in grandstanding than getting something done, said one former staffer. Hes always saying we wont negotiate with him  that we wont compromise, but when his idea of compromise is to gut the order, than why even negotiate?Some at the commission also chafe at Pais efforts to portray himself as an everyman fighting for the little guy. Wheeler has taken hits for being a former cable and wireless industry lobbyist, but Pai  they point out  once worked for Verizon and stakes out positions that tend to favor the big telecom companies.FreeBeacon: FCC Commissioner: If You Like Your Wireless Plan, You Should Be Able to Keep ItThat is a tired, 2012 talking point, repackaged and repurposed for a 2015 regulatory battle? Do we award points for that?And heres Pai claiming that we are Aiding The Enemy: GOP regulator warns net neutrality rules would embolden Cuba, China.If in the United States we adopt regulations that assert more government control over how the Internet operates  it becomes a lot more difficult for us to go on the international stage and tell governments: Look, we want you to keep your hands off the internet, he said.Even if the ideas arent completely identical, you can appreciate the optical difficult in trying to make that case, he added.And finally, this passagefrom Commissioner Pais own joint op-ed:If all of this comes as a surprise, youre not alone. The plan has not been made public. And the FCC has made it clear that it wont be released until after the agencys commissioners vote on it. This is not right. We should have an open, transparent debate about whether the presidents plan for Internet regulation is right for Americas consumers. In our view, it most certainly is not.Lets move on.AT&T Is All, Like, Were Going To SueAT&T CEO Randall Stephenson isnt too happy:Startups ApplaudDozens oftech companies signed a letter indicating their support for the current FCC net neutrality plan. Among the firms that signed onwere Etsy, Tumblr, Kickstarter, GitHub and Yelp.Heres a sample from the missive:Chairman Wheelers plan is the best proposal we have seen to date for protecting the open Internet. While there are important details yet to be finalized, the substance of the rules that the Chairman circulated last week are encouraging. Any attempt to undermine the Chairmans proposal through obfuscation and innuendo is not productive, and certainly does not represent the opinion of the startups and entrepreneurs that have worked so hard to make the Internet great.Congress Is Suddenly Full Of Internet ExpertsCongress now has not one, not two, but three investigations into the FCCs operations and handling of net neutrality. A common complaint is that the White House was mean to Chairman Wheeler by releasing itsown plan, exerting Big Kid pressure on the agency, and effectively canceling its independence.Despite Chairman Wheelers consistent claim that he decided on a Title II approach on his own, suspicions are, among the credulous and boorish bores of The Hill, running hot. I think that Congress, irked that itsbill, which would have gutted the FCC of its authority over the open Internet, appears dead, ispulling a Pai to some extent.When all you have is a gavel, everything starts to look like a scandal.Important, Reasoned Commentary From Biased Think Tanks And Other Collectives That Take Donations FromThe Industry They SupportTK.Now less than a week away, its the final at-bats for this particular bout of net neutrality. Lets hope its our last pennant.