Theres never been a better time to start an early-stage startup in China, according to one of the countrys most successful foreign entrepreneurs.Fritz Demopoulous, co-founder of travel giantQunar  which just raised $500 million  and now an investor with Queens Road Capital, told the audience at TechCrunch China that a proliferation of capital on the angel side is making it easier than ever to raise enough capital to geta startup offthe ground.Things are, however, more complicated for foreigners coming into China, Demopoulous  who is no longer in a role with Qunar said. Thats because domesticentrepreneurs in the country tend to have a solid grasp of both the localmarket and  thanks to the internet and abundance of books and other media a good understanding of U.S. and global trends.Theres more competition, Demopoulouswho first arrived in China in the 1990s to workfor Media Corp  explained. In the past, you could turn up and be successful. But Chinese entrepreneurs get the local market and U.S.too. Unfortunately, most Americans only get whats happening in North America.That said, there are opportunities emerging for non-Chinese nationals in China, but Demopoulous believes that entrepreneurs and their companiesmust fulfill some key  and often tricky criteria  to have any chance ofsuccess.There is room [for new companies], but you have to ask what value foreign companies can bring, he explained, pointing out that money, tech and even management sophisticationare already at advanced levels across Chinas tech industry.Ideally, you have to be Chinese or have a strong Chinese reference point, Demopoulous added. And ask yourself everyday, What value do I add?Demopoulous, who led Qunar to an IPO, is primarily involvedin venture capital these days. Queens Road Capital isnt focused on China, however. Instead, it is using its experience and understanding of Chinato focus on Southeast Asia, a region that Demopoulous said he believes is too often overlooked in favor of China, India and the U.S..Inspired by multi-market successes such as Skype and Spotify in Europe, hetold TechCrunch interviewer Catherine Shuthat he believes markets like Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia and others are ripe for companies that can execute across multiple countries.If you can make it in New York, you can make it anywhere  so the song goes, Demopoulous said. Theres a thesis that if you succeed in China then you can succeed anywhere but its probably too early to tell for sure.Demopoulous said he is particularly interested in marketplace startups and enterprise companies.