Editors note:Ajay Agarwal is a managing director at Bain Capital Ventures in Palo Alto where he focuses on early-stage SaaSand mobile investing.Marketing is no longer the forgotten stepchild of enterprise software.Traditionally underserved and under-penetrated, marketing is finally receiving its fair share of attention by technologists, founders and investors alike. Gartner famously predicted CMOs would spend more on IT than CIOs by 2017. IDC estimates $32.4 billion in marketing technology spending by 2018, growing at 12.4 percent CAGR. Hundreds of new companies are emerging every year, and thanks to Scott Brinker, marketers now have their own dedicated technology conference.Three years ago, I wrote a post that called marketing the next big money sector in technology, and predicted it will give rise to several multi-billion-dollar companies. At the time, Omniture had sold to Adobe for $1.8 billion but was the only marketing-focused technology company with an exit north of $1billion. All other enterprise categories over the past 30 years have created several multi-billion-dollar software companies across functional application areas: SAP (manufacturing), Oracle (financials), PeopleSoft (HR), Siebel (sales) and Salesforce (sales/CRM).While we have yet to see a dominant >$10 billion company emerge in marketing technology, we have seen tremendous changes and progress in this sector driven by digital, mobile, social, analytics and commerce technologies. We have also seen several big exits in the last three years. A quick snapshot:Note: For public companies, these values are as of March 26, 2015.The hottest standalone category to date has been marketing automation, which has become a must have solution for B2B CMOs. The two largest independent players, Hubspot and Marketo are both valued north of $1billion and are growing at rapid rates. Salesforce with itsacquisition of Pardot is now a formidable player in the space as is Oracle through itspurchase of Eloqua. All of this progress now sets the stage for my next prediction: We will see the first $5 billion-plus marketing techcompany emerge over the next four years (and likely more than one). Three key drivers will get us there:The core infrastructure is now in place to manage online and offline marketing: website and e-commerce management; customer relationship management; mobile applications; email marketing; and sales force and marketing automation.The new frontiers for CMOs in the coming years will be data science, machine learning and behavioral insights, which then drives optimization and personalization. This represents the largest opportunity ever seen for both vendors and CMOs alike. All of which should set the stage for the first $10 billion-plus marketing tech company.Note:6sense, Bloomreach, Optimizely and TellApart are Bain Capital Ventures portfolio companies.