TechCrunch is holding a Meetup and Pitch Off during Mobile World Congress, on the evening of Wednesday, Feb 24. The event is now SOLD OUT.Attendees will see around 8 startups pitch to win tickets to TechCrunch Disrupt NY. These will be 2 minute pitches, with no slides. Well be joined on stage by our judges, Natasha Lomas (Writer, TechCrunch), Ingrid Lunden (News Editor, TechCrunch), Farooq Abbasi (Mosaic Ventures), Check Warner (Downing Ventures) and Tim Yi (Northzone Ventures). I will MC.Thanks to Caroline Spek of Orangeingredients for helping us put this event together.The startups pitching are:Air by bitrefill.com
A global Mobile Money system, like M-PESA, but international, built on an open blockchain platform, and with the ability to instantly cash out into mobile airtime all over the world.Spark by readdle.com
Spark is a new smart and fast email client that allows you to power through your inbox quickly. Spark was picked by Apple as Best of the App Store 2015 and we are launching a universal (adding iPad support) version on 25th of February. We are going to turn Spark into a collaboration and communication platform for teams to get things done.Pointr
Pointr provides indoor location data and analytics to three key industries: Airport (Gatwick, Dubai Airport), Retail (Harrods) and Industrial (PepsiCo). In short; We provide the software to position people and assets on a map within indoor venues down to 1 metre accuracy.Thingthing
The Thingthing Keyboard is an iOS 3rd party keyboard that lets you attach cloud documents, pictures from everywhere, calendar availabilities and more while chatting and emailing. Our goal is to build a keyboard that can offer you your things as well as services in ANY communication app you love using.Talkitt
Voiceitts software application, Talkitt, translates unintelligible voice into clear speech in real time, enabling those with motor, speech or cognitive disabilities to communicate with caregivers, family members, health care professionals and society as a whole.Pillow Talk
Bring back the intimacy to long-distance relationships with Pillow Talk, a wristband that picks up your heartbeat and sends it, in real time, to your loved one.sacha@glovoapp.com We are an on-demand delivery platform/app launched out of Barcelona in March 2015. We are now operating in 4 cities. Our users use our app to buy or get anything in their city delivered to them in less that 60 mins. Our delivery network are all freelance independent couriers.
You covered our company in November.Spains Glovo, Another On-Demand Local Delivery Startup, Picks Up 2MFundingTusi app by Nautilus Beam
Up to 100bn messages are sent daily via WhatsApp, SMS, Skype etc. Dragging out & unlocking your phone to reply is a pain. Better to use the smartwatch on your wrist. But speech lacks reliability and privacy, and cramming a QWERTY keyboard onto a tiny screen isnt the answer. So we created Tusi, a clever, attractive way of typing quickly and easily on a smartwatch using a novel UI and state-of-the-art word prediction, correction and abbreviation expansion.Sponsors:ExoClick, the innovative ad network, is ranked the 4th largest ad network in the world by W3Techs, serving 155+ billion geo-targeted ads a month to a global network of 65,000 web/mobile publisher platforms. ExoClicks proprietary software offers 20+ different ad formats, optimized targeting and behavioural retargeting, access to big data statistics and strategic analysis tools to further improve ROI, data refresh every 60 seconds, day parting and 24/7 customer service. Our platform API allows developers to create their own bespoke software add-ons for programmatic processes on our platform. Visit http://www.exoclick.com for more details.Nubo by Panasonic
Panasonic Corporation is a worldwide leader in the development and engineering of electronic technologies and solutions for customers in residential, non-residential, mobility and personal applications. In 2013, Panasonic acquired Panasonic Cameramanager; an established leader in cloud-based video surveillance. This year Panasonic Cameramanager developed and brought Worlds First 4G Mobile Monitoring Camera to market; Nubo. Nubo is the first consumer product of Panasonic Cameramanager. For more information about Panasonic Nubo, please visit http://www.nubocam.comAptoide
Aptoide is one of the Top 3 largest Android App Stores in the world with more than 97 million unique users in 2015. Developers, OEMs and users choose Aptoide because of the diversity of content, rich features and flexibility. With Aptoide, you can create your own Store and manage it.Rakuten
Rakuten, Inc. (TOKYO: 4755) is one of the worlds leading Internet companies, offering a wide variety of services for consumers and businesses with a focus on e-commerce, finance, and digital content. Since 2012, Rakuten has been ranked among the worlds Top 20 Most Innovative Companies in Forbes magazines annual list. Rakuten is expanding worldwide and currently operates throughout Asia, Europe, the Americas and Oceania. Founded in 1997, Rakuten is headquartered in Tokyo, with nearly 12,000 employees worldwide.Wuaki.tv
Wuaki.tv is a video-on-demand (VOD) streaming service, offering thousands of hours of high quality movies and TV series for subscription (only in Spain) rental and purchase. Wuaki.tvs extensive catalogue includes content from major Hollywood studios including Warner, Disney, Sony, and Fox, production companies such as HBO, and European distributors, giving consumers access to new releases, blockbusters, classic movies and TV series on the device of their choosing. Wuaki.tvs content can be streamed to Internet-connected PCs, laptops, gaming consoles, tablets, iPhones, Chromecast and Smart TVs.Photoslurp
Photoslurp is a visual commerce & marketing platform enabling brands to collect brand-attributed photos of real users using their products across all social networks. The solution quickly finds all brand-attributed UGC in the main social media channels and includes all the tools required to embed these into ecommerce stores, making them shoppable and providing detailed photo analytics as well as evangelist identification.Estimote
Estimote is on a mission to build an operating system for the physical world. We offer hardware and software tools based on Bluetooth beacons to help developers bring location context to their apps. Over 50,000 developers and 65 of Fortune 100 brands use our products to create contextual mobile experiences ranging from retail, to smart office, to hospitality, and far beyond.CornerJob
CornerJob is the leading mobile hiring app based on simplicity, interaction and immediacy, empowering companies through mobile technology. CornerJobs mission is both, for companies to empower them with mobile technology and multiple disrupting features in order for them to find the right candidate in the shortest period of time, and for candidates to find the right job in the same short timeframe. It is basically a job matching platform that enables users to find geolocated job offers, apply to them, chat directly with the recruiters and get an answer in 24 hours. For companies, it represents the perfect recruiting channel in terms of simplicity, interaction and immediacy. It also adds value in the selection process, since it includes a chat feature to minimize timeouts.CornerJob is a startup founded by Antai Venture Builder and is therefore part of the Southern Europes leading digital ecosystem with headquarters in Barcelona. The same digital ecosystem that founded other successful ventures like Wallapop, Glovo (JustBell), Deliberry, BePretty, Stampydoo, Shopery or Elcodi, among others.