We are excited to announce one of the most important speakers wholl be appearing at TechCrunch Disrupt London conference on December 7-8, 2015. Hell be joining global startups, influential speakers, VIP guests and more. And who is he, you ask?Hell be talking about how technology and digital media is changing the sports industry and the fan bases, why he backed London startup Grabyo and what sports, music and fashion talent can bring to social platforms. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will be joined by none other than Thierry Henry.World Cup Winner, European Championship Winner, World Club Cup Winner, Champions League Winner, Spanish Sextuple Winner, English Double Winner, the Greatest goal scorer in the history of his country and also Club. He is the first player to ever win back to back European Golden Boots and the first player to ever win Domestic Golden Boots three years in succession. This coupled with winning two consecutive English Player of the year Awards, five French Player of the Year Awards (all feats never to have been achieved before) are just a few accolades in his impressive rsum.He was Arsenal Football Clubs top goal scorer every season for seven straight seasons and became their greatest ever goal scorer in the history of the club. He was also the top goal scorer in the English Premier League in four different seasons. Then at FC Barcelona, he won the Spanish League, Spanish Cup and the Champions League (The Treble). This was quickly followed by the Spanish Super Cup, European Super Cup and the World Club Cup making an unprecedented six trophies in one year. At the New York Red Bulls, he became captain of the team in 2010 and won the Shield in 2013.Off the pitch he has been a true statesman for the game and was appointed by FIFA (the world governing body of football) as their official Ambassador against racism. He retired as a Professional Footballer in December 2014 and has joined Sky TV as an expert football pundit and global ambassador.Thierry Henry has been nominated as World Player of the Year on two successive occasions, voted the Greatest Footballer Ever to have played in the English Premiership and was recently honoured with entry into the All Time Hall of Fame.Held on December 7 and 8, (and preceded by a weekend Hackathon), Disrupt is one of the most anticipated technology conferences of the year.Well start each day with panels and one-on-one discussions featuring TechCrunch writers and editors, special guest speakers, leading venture capitalists and entrepreneurs addressing the issues of the day. In the afternoon, we host the Startup Battlefield competition which culminates in six finalists taking the stage at the end of the event for a shot at winning the Disrupt Cup, and taking away a 30,000 check.Buy your tickets to Disrupt here and save 400 if you buy before November 6. You can also grab Startup Alley tickets here, where you can showcase your startup.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.In addition to onstage panel sessions and fireside chats, Disrupt will also feature Startup Battlefield and Startup Alley to London.Startup Battlefield competitors pitch their companies live and onstage to innovators, investors and influencers in the tech community. TechCrunch identifies emerging companies to demo and compete for a prize of 30,000 (42,000) and the coveted Disrupt Cup, won previously by Mint.com, Yammer, Fitbit, and Dropbox, among others.The Startup Battlefield will select around 30 brand new startups to launch on stage in front of a panel of top VCs and other founders, coverage on TechCrunch and the winner gets the 40,000 prize. Startup Alley offers another way for early-stage companies to gain exposure with a setup that encourages both exhibiting and networking, and provides high visibility. Roughly 100 startups comprise Startup Alley with around 50 new companies demoing on Monday and 50 demoing on Tuesday.Additional speakers and agenda details will be announced between now and the show. Stay tuned!