Now that its been a year and change since Apple revealed it would be opening up access to the system wide keyboard in iOS were seeing some prettyinteresting stuff going on right within the keyboard. No, not GIF keyboards;something a lot more interesting.Developers are starting to view the keyboard as a productivity platform in and of itself, which can be used to shortcutthe process of sharing other types of content mobile users mightneed access to as they compose messages, emails and other missives on the go.One example I covered recently is ReBoard: a keyboard app which launched late last monthand includesa commandkey that can be used toaccess other third party apps  such as YouTube  right within the keyboard itself.Calendar appSunrisealso launched an iOS keyboard earlier this year(Meet) thatlets users schedule meetings right within the keyboard interface  so without having to hop out to the full-fat calendar app.Well heres another contender for the productivity-focusedkeyboard pile: Barcelona-based bootstrappingThingThing Keyboard,whichsums up what its keyboard app is aiming to achievewith the slick tag-line: Switch less. Do more.At this early stage (it also launched in August) its not actually offering a Qwerty keyboard, although co-founder and CEO Olivier Plante says that is next on their dev list. So for now its functionality is limited toapp switching, relying on users to toggle (via the iOS globe key icon) to the native iOS keyboard if they want to type stuff (or whatever other keyboard they preferto use).What can the ThingThing keyboard do right now? It lets users link multiple accounts for other apps and services to provide an in-keyboard shortcut when they want to check on something like their availability (via calendar integration), or grab a document (via Dropbox), or a photo (from their camera roll) to include in themissive theyre composing.Point is messaging on mobile is huge, so anything thatreduces friction aroundcontent sharing via the mobile keyboard is likelyto find fans.The current version of ThingThing lets users link the iOS calendar and photos app to the keyboard, plus third party apps Instagram, Facebook and Flickr, and cloud services Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive, Pocket and Wunderlist  content from any or all of which can then be accessed and shared (via ThingThings sharing button) into whatever message the user is typing.The team plans to integrate with moreapps and services as they continue developing the app.The first pass of integrations was selected byasking users what they wanted easier access to when theyre typing, says Plante. The overall idea for the keyboard came to himwhen he was working as a consultant  and received an email from a client asking if he was free to meet the following week, and requesting he send a particular document.I started like most of us would do switching between apps, so I switched from my email app to my calendar, I check my availability, I note that down, and I went back into my mail app  it was super painful! And then after I went in my Dropbox app and I copied and pasted the link, which is sort of complicated when you think about it and when you do it, says Plante.Along with his co-founder, hisfirst thought was to create a messaging app  but they soon realized they were making a rod for their own back by directly trying to compete with behemoths like WhatsApp.We said to ourselves lets create an app like WhatsApp where you can share whatever you want from wherever, and it didnt feel right. And when we were asking for users we started to say this is really not the approach. Maybe we could find another one. And then we saw the Keyboard API from iOS and we said wow, this is amazing, because you could have everything under your keyboard  right at the moment you need it. And all organized in a way that you feel its natural.Plante says ThingThings focus isuser-centered design  adding: were really focused on UX and UI  and that certainly shows in the product, even in v1.1 of the app, which hasa clean-looking interface andan intuitive workflow. A lot more intuitive than the rather fiddly command-key approach of the rival ReBoard app, imo.Part of the intuitive design is also about designing the functionality that is available to the user when they pull a third party service into the keyboard  so instead of dumping them into the full-fat Dropbox interface, say, ThingThing is being selective withthe features it offers to fit with its mobile productivity and sharing-focused ethos.We work them based on does it make sense for the user? What do you really need when you are typing a message? Our goal is not to integrate whatever because why not. We want to make it make sense for people, says Plante. We want to make it super coherent.The grander aim is to become a peoples content hub, he says, hinting at more ambitious plans around making users digital content more accessible. So where other keyboard makers concern themselves withenhancing the typing experience  a laSwiftKey, Swype, Fleksy and so on  ThingThing is putting its emphasis squarely on sharing. Sharing your availability, sharing your pictures, sharing your files, sharing your stuff, addsPlante.There is an iOS limitation the team is having to work with (and around) for now, which is that they have to use cut and paste to transfer content from the third party service to the users message  and not every third party app supports pasting photos, for instance.Inserting a picture directly or a file is limited by Apple so we cannot do that right now. However we have submitted our request to Apple, says Plante with a hopeful laugh. Were working on finding a solution or workaround that will make it super easy for the user. But we have this particular limitation of copy pasting.Weve seen that in some apps, for instance in Outlook, it doesnt work because of the copy pasting of images. You can still insert links, Dropbox links or any links, text-based, but copy-pasting images doesnt work However were working on partnerships as well so were looking into contacting these companies and building partnerships so they can open that gate for us, he adds.In terms of monetization, the ThingThing app is a free download but Plante says they will be adding in-app purchases in future. He also says they have an additional revenue stream schemeup their sleevebut isnt ready to disclose that thinking just yet.The app remains iOS only for now. Plante says theyre considering an Android version  and versions for other platforms  but want to get the concept properly polished on iOS before putting additional resources towards developing for other platforms.Some of that ambition is doubtless contingent on the bootstrapping team raising funding to keep growing the product. We are in discussion with many investors to raise our seed round, he notes.