Whose phone charger is that sticking out of the wall? Oh. It must be Bens. Ben always leaves his charger at work. Classic Ben!Alas, its not Bens charger. Hell, its not a charger at all. Its actually a little spy device disguised as a phone charger, capable of sniffing out every key you type on that wireless keyboard on your desk. Oh, and it can send the stuff it picks up straight to the eavesdroppers phone. Oh! Oh! And itll keep working even if you unplug it  it only pretends to turn off.That little box up top is built by Samy Kamkar (Yeah  the same Samy who built the self-titled worm that ravaged Myspace back in the day, and who built that crazy hands-free hacking necklace a few weeks back) who has dubbed it the KeySweeper.Before you panic and throw your keyboard in the trash, here is the good news: This specific device only affects certain wireless keyboards. Most notably, Microsoft-branded wireless keyboards. Were still trying to dig up a more exhaustive list  but for now, let Microsoft wireless keyboard be your caution sign.In a statement, Microsoft notes that it only affects its 2.4 Ghz (not Bluetooth) keyboards released before July 2011 (Update: See the bottom of this post for a note on this from Samy, the man behind the hack). Even if its only older keyboards, remember: outside of the gamer crowd, most people dont update their keyboards very often.Heres some of the crazier stuff KeySweeper can do:On the upside, most brand-name wireless keyboards sold today use encryption methods that are a bit tougher to crack. Logitech, for example, uses 128-bit AES on all of its wireless stuff (see page 6 of this doc for reference).Samy estimates that each unit would cost $10 to $80 to build, depending on what sort of features you want (ditching the SMS support, for example, brings it down by about $45)  but is quick to note that hes not actually selling these.You can (and should!) read Samys full breakdown of the project over here.Update: While Microsoft says only keyboards before July 2011 are impacted, Samy shot me a note to point out that said keyboards are still on sale and seemingly manufactured:Just wanted to mention  while Microsoft states it only affects keyboards before 2011, the vulnerable keyboards are *still* being manufactured and sold today, even from Microsofts own web site and major retailers like Best Buy.I purchased the vulnerable keyboard brand new from Best Buy just last month, and the date next to the serial number says 07/2014