Peakview is the investment advisory arm of Shengjing Group and the largest global fund of funds in China.It alsohas millions of dollars to invest in U.S.-based venture capital funds, it says.This year. Right now.Its a very different message than VCs are receiving from many other institutions,judging by our recent conversations with these backers, calledlimited partners.According to a variety of sources, the many brands talking with LPs include Andreessen Horowitz, Menlo Ventures, Eight Partners, True Ventures, and First Round Capital (to name but a handful). But someinvestors arent happy with the founder-friendly approach that many VCs have taken in recent years. As oneinvestor told usearlier this week, speaking on background: Alot of VCs have returns but theyre mostly unrealized; its not like they were pumping these [portfolio companies] out [onto the public market] as soon as they could. And now the IPO market has collapsed.Erik Lassila, a longtime VC who is now the U.S.-based managing partner of Peakview, understands his peers frustration. Theres a big and often costlydivide between paper and realized gains. But as part of an organization thatplansto invest $1 billion in venture funds  including hundreds of millions of dollars intheU.S., a smaller percentage in Israel, and the rest back home in China Lassila doesnt have to worry about VCsmistakes in recent years.Hes working with a blank slate, as he puts it.He also notesthat the bar is veryhigh right now forSeries A and Series B deals.Indeed, Lassila, whose office is on University Avenue in Palo Alto,has already made commitments to six funds, including the newest funds of Menlo Ventures,Institutional Venture Partners, and Foundation Capital.Now, Lassila is looking around at other places to park his capital andworking to spread the news that professionally managed Chinese capital has come to the U.S. for the long term. (In reality,money has been leaving the country at a torrid pace since last year.)Peakviews capital comes fromhigh-net-worth individuals; local development funds; and insurance companies, which were given the green-light to invest overseas for the first time in 2012,though some remain hesitant to do so forfear theyll be punished harshly overpoor performance by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission.Asked if Lassila is seeing pushback over concernsthat Peakviewsfunding could be impacted by Chinas turbulent economy, heacknowledges that the macro economy will have ups and downs but notes thatgreat wealth has been created in China and Chinese investors are keen to diversify internationally.Despite the outflow of capital from China,Lassila also argues that most Chinese institutions have less than 1percentof their assets invested overseas, so these international investments have a long runway to grow before reaching any kind of balanced portfolios.Venture firmsmay decide its worth working with Peakview either way. In addition to cold hard cash,foreign investors often provide needed diversification to a venturefirmsinvestor base;having money from an economy that doesnt move in strict lockstepwiththat of theU.S. can come in handy in a downturn.Peakviewis promising VCs another perk, too: to help theirportfolio companies bridge networkinggaps between the U.S. and China.A GP will call me and say, Our portfolio company received an investment offer from XYZ Ventures in Shanghai. Whats its reputation? What kind of resources does it have?' says Lassila. Conversely, he adds, Chinese companies will tell us they want to form a partnership with a top U.S. firm to invest in whatever field. We can help them pick the right partner.Peakviewisnt paid for its consulting services, says Lassila.Its just something we do for our family.Whether the services areenough to get Peakview into every top fund it would like remains to be seen. But Peakviews pitchcould certainly be music to the ears of the many VCs who areback in the market in 2016and wouldhappy to join its brood if it means getting their newest funds raised.