Can an app replace the selfie stick? Sadly thatseems a forlorn hope at this point. The plague of wands topped with phone clamps and wielded by photo-loving tourists everywhere seems unstoppable.But San Diego-based iOS developer Ford Davis reckons theneed to carry an extra bit of kitjust tosnap a selfie (or a groupie or whatever else kidscall photographs these days) couldat least be reduced with better self-timer software. So hes put together a free face-detecting app, called Selfie Stick,that lets you take selfies and hands-free photos just by tilting your head.Now I say just, however the appactually requires some pretty extensive head tilting to trigger the timer at this inaugural stage (v1.0). And the tilt detectionseems to work a lotbetter if the phone is in portrait orientation vs landscape. So be prepared to do quite a bit of rubber necking before you get to take your shot.You need to do enough tilting for a green circle to be fully drawn on the screen. At which point the process takes place in reverse, with the green circle disappearing and changing color,through orange to red  to show you how much time is left before the shot is taken.A pleasing piece of design, although the amount of time that can be required to rubber neck the green circle into beingvs the speed atwhich it then zips down and snaps a shotcan feel rather out of balance. And with all the limbering up you might well haveforgotten which duck pout you were intending to pull before the shutter fires #FirstWorldProblemsThe app is alsodefinitelylittle glitchy at this early stage. Davis admits its not flawless but he isjust a one-man-band working on theproject in between contractwork,adding: Im not funded, I dont have a company or any employees so Im not technically even a startup, just a guy with a macbook and some crazy ideas.If youre not holding your phone to use the app youll of course need to have propped itup somewhere. So its not really going to persuadeselfie stick loyalists to switch, given they know they can shootthemselves and their friends anywhere they like so long as they have their trusty stick to hand. But for anyone who doesnt own, and doesnt want to own, a selfie stick then this software alternative offers aless cumbersome/socially awkward and free  alternative.Selfie Stickfollows other software self-timer apps includingvoice triggered options, and apps that snap a shotwhen you smile. But happily this appdoes not pre-determine thefacialexpressions that will appear inyour photos  so your selfies can be as moody as you like Other features include an audio aid for the timer countdown and to help you determine how much more tilting you need to do to trigger a shot (if youre using the rear camera and cant see the screen), and a face detection pinger to help you figure out when youve got your visage in the frame.