Frustrated by how difficult it was to have spur of the moment get-togethers with friends, Stanford classmates Joseph Lau and Nikil Viswanathan spent a Friday afternoon in San Franciscos SoMa district building what they called Down To Lunch.I want to emphasize how simple or silly it was, said Lau. We didnt know who was free, and who was where, and who was able to hang out, Viswanathan explained. We literally made the simplest app we could think of  which was one button, joked Lau, describing the apps speedy development in early March.Initially available only as an Ad Hoc Beta from a link on Viswanathans Facebook page, Down To Lunch launchedon the App Store shortly after and on the Google Play Store later thatmonth.While the initial version of the app resulted from a Friday afternoon of programming before a party, their app is attracting serious competition. Despite Down To Lunchs humble origins, it looks set to outperform more formal competitors Hangster and Shortnotice, two apps also made by current Stanford students. Shortnotice was launched by Kush Nijhawan, a Stanford classmate of mine. While Hangsters beta was expected to launch today, the team informed me that the release will be delayed until early next week.Perhaps it is Down To Lunchs straightforwardness that has allowed it to to grow so organically in the face of other full-time competitors like Free, which was co-founded by former Path employees. Unlike competing apps that require users to enter text or downselect into an activity type, Down To Lunchs simplicity makes it a useful tool without adding extra work for users.We had close to a million contacts really quickly, said Viswanathan, who declined to divulge specific user numbers. Despite this, he maintains that he and Lau only ever expected around 5 users. 48 hours later, people I hadnt seen in years were using it, he added.Oscar Barillas, cofounder of Hangster and a former classmate of mine in Stanfords Mechanical Engineering department, explained that his team came upon this problem in the same way. For one of our co-founders, the biggest problem in life was finding out who was around and free to do something, he joked. Following Down to Lunchs lead, Hangsters team decided early on to base their product on visual cues. We realized that people didnt really want to type statuses, Barillas added. Itll be a bit before we can say anything about Hangsters user growth, but early versions of theapp promise an enticing visual experience.The value of visual cues is clear. Shortnotice, which was part of a Microsoft Ventures accelerator program in the summer of 2014, hasnt been able to grow past around 3,800 registered users. While Nijhawan assured methe app would get an update in Septemberand that the team had planned an exciting marketing campaign featuring Memphis Grizzlies player and NCAA Champion Russ Smith, the apps unwieldiness could make user retention and acquisition difficult. Shortnotice is centered on text-based input and a fatigued interface, and as Barillas team noted early on, an enticing user experience and visual interaction signage is critical.Launch screens for Down To Lunch, Hangster, and ShortnoticeSitting in a caf in Washington, D.C.s Chinatown quarter, for example, opening Down To Lunch brings users to a screen filled by a large red button. Currently saying Down To Drinks on my iPhone, the app uses the local time to deliver an appropriate message. On Shortnotice, the same task  inviting friends for a quick drink  takes twice as long and cant be done with one hand. By restricting the users input options to a type of meal determined by time of day, Down To Lunch eliminates what can only be described as the tedium of listing out what activities youre interested gather friends for.Shortnotice requires manual text entryWhile Lau explained that the apps simplicity was the result of its somewhat casual origins, the effect of simple design choices seems to have resonated with users.The app grew so fast over the first few weeks, Lau explained, that they soon were encountering scaling issues because of the sheer number of users. Again, emphasize just how primitive this product was. We were expecting just a few friends to use it.Its possible that Hangsters team will be able to match Down To Lunchs growth with strong marketing strategy. Barillas said the team is about to launch their campus ambassador program at the University of Californias campuses at Berkeley and Merced.Viswanathan pointed out that competition in the consumer social app space is not differentiated by technology. You win because your product is good. Its really about how you market it, how you get the word out, he said. Despite the pairs success, Viswanathan and Lau are working on another (undisclosed) product full-time. Right now, its [Down To Lunch] still a side project, he said, adding that he was open to other people solving the problem.Its not to get attention, its to actually [go] do something, said Shortnotices Nijhawan of his teams goal to move communication back into the real world. With interpersonal communication increasingly dependent on devices and messaging, enabling face-to-face interactions will only become more important.Disclosure: I am currently a student at Stanford University. 