Where Neil Youngs Pono may have flopped with critics, another hi-fidelity music service soon to be owned bya music superstar is hoping to fly. Tidal, a newhi-fi streaming service from Norways Asipro, today announced that it will be adding 22 more countries to its list of active markets this quarter, but on the back of just 35,000 subscribers for Tidal and sister service WiMP to date. The news comes on the heels ofAspiro announcing that hip-hop megastar Jay-Z has made an offer to acquire the company for approximately $56 million (466 million Swedish kronor).If the deal proceeds  and it looks like majority shareholder Schibsted is recommending that it does  Jay-Z will have a tall order ahead of him to gain critical mass for the service. In a quarterlyupdateon its progresswhere it is already active  the U.S., Canada, UK, Ireland, Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg  the numbers are small, to say the least.As of December 31, 2014, Aspiro had 500,000 total paying music subscribers overall, a decline of 2% on the previous quarter. WiMP and Tidal users (the HiFi services), meanwhile, are now at only 35,000 (up 75% on last quarter). The streaming service Tidal alone has only 12,000. Tidallaunched for business in the U.S. and UK on October 28, 2014; Canada on December 8, andNetherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Finland and Ireland on January 22.As a point of reference, Spotify recently reported that it had 15 million paying users, and 60 million users overall worldwide. The economics of music streaming, with thin margins needingto be shared among many players, have proven to be tough for smaller companies, and weve been seeing a gradual consolidation that somepredict will end with only a handful of companies surviving.Aspiro says that its revenues have gown by 28% in the quarterto SEK288.6 million ($35 million).Like Pono, Tidal is aiming for the higher end of the market and a quality product, referring to itself as the ideal music service for those who care about quality. Also like Pono, its based around FLAC technology, specifically FLAC/ALAC 44.1kHz / 16 bit  1411 kbps.Given the echoes of Dr Dre and Jimmy Iovines involvement with Beats originating around the idea of creating products to appreciate and highlight high-end digital sound services, it may have been the hi-fi aspect of Tidals service that struck a chord with Jay-Z.Tidal currently has a catalog of 25 million tracks and 75,000 music videos, along with a curated discovery platform. It also has integration partnerships with 37 electronics companies, although only 18% of its streams today are taking place through home audio systems. The rest are on mobile (42%) and desktop (39%), the company noted today.We continue to accelerate our expansion, as demand for our product keeps rising,said TIDAL CEO Andy Chen in a statement.Besides directly from consumers, we are also seeing a very strong growth from new home audio partners. We now have 37 confirmed partners to offer TIDAL across the broadest selection of home audio systems.The 22 new markets that will be added this quarter areAustria, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Switzerland, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, South Africa and Turkey  bring the total number of active countries for the service to 30, with the U.S., Canada, UK, Ireland, Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg already live.Updated with correction: numbers represent quarter-on-quarter growth, not annual.