Digital music service TIDAL climbed to the top of the App Store, thanks to scoring the exclusive rights to Kanye Wests new album, The Life of Pablo  but that release hasnt exactlybeen going as planned. Twitter today is filled with complaints from consumers who claimed they paid for the album, but never received the download. TechCrunch staff has experienced the same problem, in fact. [Note: post has been updated with additional information.]To catch you up, the new album went live over theweekend and was originally made available for streaming through TIDALs music service, as well as for download from the web throughalink on Kanye Wests website.However, soon after launch, the artist tweeted that he decided not to sell his album for another week, and pulled down the download page. A link,kanyewest.tidal.com,now redirects to kanyewest.com.According to those complaining to TIDAL, however, the company charged their credit cards for the albums purchase, but they never received an email from TIDAL or a download link.In some cases, their credit card was charged more than once. In addition to double-billing for the albums purchase itself (at $20 a pop), they werealso double-billed a $1.00 fee which wasnt explained, either.This appears to be a pre-authorization fee to ensure the credit card submitted is valid, but typically a company explains this in advance  not after the fact, as TIDAL is doing. (The companys Twitter says the $1.00 charge will be reversed quickly, but that could take up to a few weeks to process)1 hour later Still no download link #Tidal #TLOP Bigg P From 68th (@BiggPMusic) February 14, 2016Tidal took folks $$ for the Kanye album but no download link? KSNAGAUSJSNHSB Blk Mixed With Blk (@MysticHue) February 14, 2016After waking up to no email download of #TLOP I went back to bed. Now the purchase link for Tidal isnt working either? Mark Davis (@themizarkshow) February 14, 2016@kanyewest please dont release new music to buy not with tidal, no one receives the download link after paying fscherer (@floryanscherer) February 14, 2016The end result of theglitches users are experiencing is that some have now paidup to $42 for an album that has yet to arrive.Others, including TechCrunch editor Matthew Panzarino, report that they were charged only for the album itself, along with a couple of $1.00 (pre-auth) fees, without receiving adownload.Whats worse is that TIDAL doesnt seem to be responding to the flood of complaints hitting its Twitter, asking some users to DM (direct message) them with account information and support ticket numbers  as if the situation werea one-off that needed to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.@TIDALHiFi I bought TLOP on https://t.co/gupMyNMSBI and I never got the download link. I was charged the $42 on my card. Requested a ticket mountaineer (@Trap_Meech) February 15, 2016Other users seem to be ignored entirely by TIDALs Twitter  which, in all fairness, could be overwhelmed by the volume of requests.That said, given thatmany are experiencing the same problem, its time for the company to make a statement.@TIDALHiFi @SuperstarSnake Tidal is garbage, charged my credit card and still no link to download album Yo!Hozay (@YoHozay) February 14, 2016@TIDALHiFi Still waiting for a response Emmet Purcell (@EmmetPurcell) February 14, 2016In addition to the Twitter complaints, somewho have entered formal support tickets say their requests are going unanswered, too.Conspiracy theorists on Reddit speculate this is all a bit of marketing buzz meant to generate headlines regarding the new album. That seems less likely.Update, 2/15/16, 3 PM ET:TechCrunch has been informed by people familiar with the matter than less than 4,000 consumers who purchased the album have not received their download.This group includes two factions  those whose credit card transactions processed, but went through around the time Kanye actually stopped fulfillingdownloads. The other groups transactions didnt fully process due to Kanyes website crashing, but they are seeing pending credit cardcharges on their bank statements. These charges will be automatically reversed, were told.Meanwhile, for those whose transactions actually did gothrough, TIDAL will be emailing them today with the option to wait a week for the albums official release (which Kanye is controlling) or they can request a refund.Unfortunately for TIDAL, thesituation is just one of whats now many examples of serious concerns overits ability to operate a trustworthy music service. Even if the companywas not involved with Kanyes decision to pull downloads, his websites crashing, and the subsequent fulfillment issues, its brand is associated with thisrelease and its name is appearing on consumers bank statements, due to it serving as Kanyes credit card processor for album downloads.The damage, as they say, is done.The company already accidentally leaked Rihannas album, attributing the problem to a system error. However, in that case, TIDALpointed a finger at Universal Music Group, indicating the error was not on its side, but rather on Universals.That may or may not be true, but the company has had problems of its own as well, before this latest issue. For example, TIDALs live video stream of Kanyes Yeezy Season 3 fashion showand concert also suffered numerous glitches. The live stream went down, seemingly unable to handle the load of viewers.Representatives forTIDAL have been asked forcomment. Well update if one isprovided.UPDATE, 2/15/16, 5 PM ET:An email from TIDAL is now arriving in users inboxes. It reads as follows:Hello,Our records indicate you purchased Kanye Wests THE LIFE OF PABLO, and did not receive the album. A partial version of the album is available for streaming on TIDAL.com, but the download is currently not available.The final version of the album will be released in the next several days. Upon the new release, we will send you a download of THE LIFE OF PABLO to this email address. However, if you would like a refund, please respond directly to this email and our customer support team will assist you.Thank you.TIDAL Support