Apple CEO Tim Cook made an uncharacteristic admission today in an interview with Indian news channel NDTV  that iPhones are too expensive. He immediately qualified it, and the context really is important, but its just one of those things you dont hear very often.A report from Deutsche Bank found recently that India is among the most expensive places in the world to buy an iPhone, with prices averaging 31 percent higher than the U.S.  only Sweden, Indonesia and Brazil have it worse.After some opening softballs (or rather, cricket balls), Cook faced some serious grilling on this topic from NDTVs Vikram Chandra.Cook acknowledged the truth of the statements, but caught himself before going too far.The duties and the taxes and the compounding of those takes the price and it makes it very high. our profitability is less in India, its materially less  but stillI recognize that prices are high.We want to do things that lower that over time, to the degree that we can, he said. I want the consumer in India to be able to buy at a price that looks like the U.S. price.He didnt detail much in the way of concrete steps to this end, however, saying the company was looking at India holistically before getting into retail or fiddling with carrier relationships. And its worth noting that he did not say the iPhone was overpriced, merely too expensive. Theyre different things, not that it matters to someone who has to pay $850 for a base-level iPhone 6.What we see here is talent, he said, in response to questions on how Apple would be investing in its Indian presence. That means getting the development community moving on iOS. Were also using a lot of skills in India for maps the maps facility will be several hundred million dollars worth of work.But the iPhone wouldnt be getting a special, localized version at lower cost or with highly customized services.We want to bring Apple Pay to India. We want to bring every service that we do to India  every one, he said. And if theres something unique thats needed, we also want to do that.But not more than that: I dont believe personally in trying to be something youre not. We are what we are. Were a California company.