Theres been an explosion of niche, over-the-top video streaming services in recent months, as consumers cut the cord with traditional pay TV in favor of videos they can watch at any time on any device. Today, yet another over-the-top service is making its debut  this one from Time, Inc. which is introducing the blandly titled People/Entertainment Weekly Network. The name implies what this streaming service will focus on, as it references the companys top entertainment brands.Details of the service were announcedby Rich Battista, President of the Time Inc. Entertainment and Sports Group and Video,at Times annual NewFront presentation in New York.The company pointed outthat People and EW combined have an audience of over 100 million.Thenew streaming network will attempt to tap into that audience by offering over 100 hours of original, long-form programming, updated daily, focused on celebrity, pop culture, lifestyle and human interest stories, as well as specials and live event coverage.This will include translating a number of the two media properties content franchises to the service, such as Peoples Sexiest Man Alive, Heroes Among Us, Worlds Most Beautiful, Half Their Size, EWs Fall TV Preview, Must List, Reunions, Bullseye and People en Espaols Mas Bellos.There will also be coverage of awards shows, festivals and premieres.Parent company Time, Inc. will additionally help to facilitate access to moreevents, likeSports Illustrated Swimsuit, the Time 100, Essence Festival, the Food & Wine Classic in Aspen and others. And it will aid in the services development by providing production studios, marketing and promotional support, as well as its global ads sales team.In addition to its 100 hours of original programming, which will grow every day, there will be a library of more than 50 hours of programming available at launch.The company did not yet unveil an exact launch date, beyond sayingit would arrive this fall. However, were told the service will be free and ad-supported.The launch comes at a time when major media companies, networks, and studios are trying to carve out a niche for themselves in the streaming era. As Time pointed out in its announcement of the new network, its expected that nearly 200 million connected TVs will be sold in the US by 2020, with weekly consumption of over-the-top (OTT)programming doubling during that time, and ad spending on OTT services projected to reach $40 billion.However, its still unclear if consumers will embrace these numerous, niche services to complement their subscriptions to bigger players in the industry, like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu.And the market is massively crowded. There are so many services to choose from today, its getting a little ridiculous. Or fantastic, depending on your viewpoint as a cord cutter.Not only do premium cable TV networks like HBO, Showtime and Starz now offer their own over-the-top offerings, there are also broadcast TV services like CBS All Access, genre-focused services for things like comedy (SeeSo), indie movies (Tribeca Shortlist and FilmStruck), childrens programming (Nogginand DisneyLife), and more. Plus you can find original content from creators on services like YouTube Red, Fullscreenand Vimeo. Even golf is available as an over-the-top subscription.And lets not forget that Sling TV and Sonys Vue will soon compete with Hulu with theirlive TV subscription services. As will YouTube, according to a report from Bloomberg.With a crowded market like this, it could be that Amazons strategy to offer these smaller players as optional add-ons to its larger Amazon Video service may the right move. However, at this time, Times service is not yet confirmed to be available on Amazon Video. That could change in the future, as Amazon has been picking up add-on streaming services left and right, including as of today, SeeSo.Posted updated, 12 pm ET, to include pricing details (ad-supported, free)