Twitter has been in the spotlightfor the past severaldays over allegedly imminent (longstanding) plansto change the order ofTweets in your timeline. Butwhile its CEO has confirmed there are no such plansforthis week, Twitter is adding a new productin its advertising business thatdoes underscore the fact that on Twitter, timing does count for a lot.Today Twitteris unveiling a new video ad unit called First View. Advertisers opting for a First View position will essentially jump to the front of the queuein Twitters ad network, getting the top ad spot the first time a person opens Twitter, for a period of 24 hours.At launch,First View will be video only  pushing Twitters drive to expand its offerings in rich media. Aspokesperson says Twitter is considering expanding to other Tweet types int he future.An example of how it looks is here to the right:The news comes at a critical time for Twitter.The company is due to announce its Q4and full-year earnings on Wednesday, February 10.And just yesterday its stock dipped to below $15/share for the first time  a sign of how some investors continue to question whether the company will be able to demonstrate that its user base is increasing rather than stagnating, and that its advertising-based business model is growing along with that.Addingin more premium ad units is one way for the company to increase its revenues per user, which could also help to offset the smaller margin play based around simpler ads for a larger audience.First View ads (Promoted Tweets) will be rolled out initially in the U.S. and select U.S.-managed clients, acrossTwitters mobile and desktop apps and Twitter.com, with a global roll out planned for the near future. Mobile web and third-party apps are not supported at this time, says thespokesperson.(And in case you were wondering, thespokesperson didnt respond to a question I had about whether verified accounts will see First View ads. As you might recall, some verified accounts users have not had ads served to them in a while.)Neither the blog post about First View from Deepak Rao, nor the spokesperson, revealedanything about how First View is being priced compared to other Promoted Tweet ad units.But thefact that First Viewgives advertisers a coveted position at the top of the feed  putting to rest the worrythat some people just dont scroll that much on Twitter  and that its focused around premium video, both point to Twitters interest in developing more higher-priced tiers around its main line of revenue generation. Other ad units launched recently that supportthis strategy include conversational ad units and the expansion of TwittersAmplify video program.So who will be a typical advertiser using the new First View unit? With the fact that its centered around video, youll be very unsurprised to hear thatone target market isthe entertainment industry:Word of mouth is more important than it has ever been in movie marketing. And there is no better word of mouth social platform than Twitter. Twitters First View is a great opportunity to widely distribute our trailer for Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates while generating buzz and social conversation. We are able to hit a broad movie-going audience with great video in a way that not just garners views, but actually creates social momentum, saidMarc Weinstock, president of marketing at 20th Century Fox in a statement.