Move over T Machine, theres a new automated Tinder hack in town  and this one doesnt just dumbly swipe right on everypotential datelike a drunk trying to undo their shoelaces. Its got visualsmarts,thanks to an Eigenfacesalgorithm thatanalyzes the facial featuresof each potential mate  and then likes or dislikeseachbased on your own previously expressed aesthetic choices. So basically: Hello Tinder + machine learning!The software was created by Vancouver-baseddeveloper Justin Long. Detailing his projectin a blogLong notes that he got fed up with all that manual swiping on Tinder  so decided there had to be a smarter, tech-powered fix for the tedium/sore thumbs. And one that didnt just indiscriminately swipe, like T Machine et al. Hence he decided to add infacial recognition algorithms for more intelligent auto-sorting.He writes that he built the first version, which he called Tinderbox, in three weeks, pulling on the Tinder APIs torecreate the Tinder app experience in a browser. Faces are cropped out of suitable profile pictures (smaller shots wont work of course) and are then compared with an average face, representing the sum of the human users aesthetic choices. And yes theseamalgams definitely check the uncanny valley boxLong notes that the user is required to make 60 yes/no choices before the bot has enough data to choose on your behalf  after which it can be on full Tinder auto pilot. Yikes!But wait, theres more! The Tinder bot can even start conversations with potential mates too  thanks to Long implementing natural language processing techto power aconversation startermessaging feature, and help the user weed out matcheswho arent actually into them (perhaps because they were swiping right on everyone).He writes:UsingStanfordNLP, the bot analyzes the sentiment of each chat response and classifies it as positive or negative. Using a message treethe bot selects from pre-programmed chat messages as a response based on the senders sentiment. This continues up to 3 replies until the user is notified that a chat is ready to enter. The advantage of this? It removes the time involved in filtering new Tinder matches since a lot of people tend to drop off and go dark early in the process. Extended conversation is a strong indicator of interest.Which does really rather pose the question of what happens if the Tinderbox algorithm encounters itself in a chat? Would the machine-to-machine exchange result in algorithmic love at first byte? Or would the feedback loop cause some kind of marginlesserror that takes Tinderbox out of action, leaving its human instigator forced to resort back to thumbs? We can but speculate(Update: Asked about this Long confirms he hasnt (yet) tried algo-on-algobut says his gut feeling is it will burn out rather quickly into stalemate because he notes messages are pre-set  not auto-generated. And indeed he adds that failureto swap out these pre-set messages when he let a female friend try out the bot resulted in 40 men on Tinder beingasked if They could teach a guy to bake and all that. Which just goes to show that human error can be hugely amplified by automation.)One thing is for sure, a future of algorithmic dating is going to involve some pretty weird conversation openers. (Althoughmate-seekinghumans let loose on dating appsarequite capable of that on their own, asTinderfessionsamply illustrates.)What happened with Longs relationship with Tinderbox? Turns out they went steady for a while, and things were good. Too good. To the point of it becoming a distraction. So hes now kicked the algorithmichabit. But does sayhe wenton at least 10 dates based off of Tinderboxschoices. And in a couple cases says he had follow-ups  and is apparently still seeing one person, despite revealing his machine-powered pick-up methods to her. That must have been a fascinating conversation*Long adds:The bot is amazingly effective. I would estimate an accuracy of up to 70% in its selections  though there may be a hindsight bias. Using a brand new account, I did a quick test to see how quickly the bot could get results. In 48 hours, the bot registered 21 matches (starting all of those conversations), made 4 extended conversations, and the bot itself made over 300 moves. A move is any step the bot makes in either sending a message or making a swipe. And in that time I barely needed to touch the app. I also created a dashboard to give me an overview of my metrics.Reader, he even created a dashboard. That really is taking procreation evolution to the next level.So there you have it. Whether Long would have found the same partnerby thumb power alone, or stumbled upon a different humanis, alas, an unanswerable question. Theres no algorithm for parsing parallel universes  yet.The code for Tinderbox has been made available for personal use and modification on Github.Long says he doesntcurrently have any plans to pursue the projectcommercially. Undoubtedly someother developerwill.Update:Interestingly, Long tells TechCrunch, too many faces (around 300+) pushes the algorithm to breaking point the yes model and the no model seem to converge, he says, adding: It would indicate that there are limits to the algorithm, and a different strategy is needed for the long-term.Another problem for algorithm-powered mate-matching isthe prevalence of Instagram et al filters making it harder for the bot to distinguish between faces properly.The bot produced a full spectrum of looks, and the reason for this is because the Eigenfaces algorithm mostly focuses on facial features rather than skin color or body type. Thats not to say I didnt look into adding those features into the algorithm. The problem was mostly due to how so many photos used many filters, probably from Instagram, and it was difficult to normalize them. If I had more time and had to do it all over again, Id probably be a little more comprehensive, he adds.He also told TechCrunch what his girlfriend had to say when she found out thealgorithmic truth. She actually thought it was really cool! What helped the most was that this wasnt a swipe for all scenario, and the bot was meant to seek out others just how I would pick them myself, he says, adding: To be honest, I was surprised that many women had a positive reaction to it. It is something novel and actually meant to be a part of myself. After matches have been filtered, Tinderbox is entirely meant to be passed over to the user. I think it would be rather dystopian if a person couldnt ask for their own date.*A note on Longs Github page includes the helpful caveat: Since it is a tool that automates a lot of the Tinder experience, be forewarned not everyone appreciates being met through a robot.