This year it looks like budget hotel networks area major trend for the tech industry in Southeast Asia. Already close to half a dozen startups offering standardized accommodationoptions have sprouted up, and today another new entrant has emerged in Indonesia  with a slight twist.Indonesia-based Tinggal is less than one month old, buttoday it announced that it has raised $1 million in funding. Particularly of interest is the fact that this financing has come from the investors and members of the executive team behind India-based Wudstay, a budget hotel network that launched in July 2015.The premise for Tinggal is simple, Indonesias internal and overseas travel market is booming with particular demand around budget stays, but theres a major disconnect between booking a place that looks nice in photos and then arriving there. Tinggal is taking the budget hotel model  pioneered by SoftBank-backed OYO Rooms  to add a guaranteed level of expectation for each stay. For example, all rooms booked via Tinggal include a range of expectations, both in terms of bed and room quality and additional items like free breakfast and WiFi.Beyond catering to travelers, with rooms priced around $17, the company also includes an elite option that goes to $60 per room per night.The funding for Tinggal comes from VC firms Mangrove Capital and Simile Venture Partners and Nimbuzz CEO/angel investor Vikas Saxenaall three backed Wudstay last summer  and Wudstay CEOPrafulla Mathur.Tinggal plans to cover Indonesias major cities over the next 12 months, andright now it has 35 properties across four cities. Thats considerably less than other rivals like RedDoorz, Nida Rooms, and Rocket Internet-backedZen Rooms, but Saxena and Tinggal co-founderArjun Chopra stressedthe advantage ofleaning on the experience and tech that Wudstay has developed.Tinggal is an independent company, Saxena told TechCrunch in an interview. But whats quite obviously is that weve taken advantage of a strong technology backbone [via Wudstay] in India.Alot of early efforts [from rival companies in Indonesia] went into building the tech and understanding the market, we come with a level of that already to some degree.Chopra, who is Indian but spent significant time in Indonesia over the past decade via roles with PayPal and Intuit, said the plan is to increase Tinggals headcount from nine right now to 35 over the coming six months.Its older rivals are either in multiple markets inSoutheast Asia already or aiming to expand soon, whileIndias market leader OYO Rooms entered the regionrecently, but Tinggal is taking a slower approach.As of now were just focusing in winning in Indonesia, Chopra said. Within this year, we hope to make Tinggal the winner in Indonesia  when that milestone happens, well look at other markets.Wudstay hasnt backed Tinggal in an official capacity, but with three common investors and investment from its CEO, there are clearly links. All parties said it is too early to speculate over a possible acquisition in the future, and Tinggal said it will beopen to investment from other backerswhen it chooses to raise additional funding, which could be later this year.Why didnt Wudstay simply expand its service to Southeast Asia, rather than going to the hassle of backing a new company? Saxena saidit doesnt need the distraction of a new market which requires a different approach. He cited ZO Rooms  which recently shuttered and was bought by OYO Rooms  as an example of the pitfalls of doing too much too soon.Southeast Asia is an emergingmarket, but it is different to India, he said. Wudstayis veryfocused on India. Wethought it would be better if we let the organic solution bloom.Lots of Indian companies have begun to think [they can enter Southeast Assia], but what works in India doesnt always work there.