Tip your Uber driver. Dont argue, just do it.Uber doesnt include any kind of gratuity in the cost of your ride. And it doesnt just pay drivers more to make up for that. The company implied that it did by saying there was no need to tip, and by simply not including the option to tip. The narrative is predicated on a deliberate omission.No one questioned it, partly because it tallied with the white-knight persona, the slaying of the evil cab companies and the victory of clever technology over a dinosaur of the 20th century. Tipping was an anachronism, only necessary because of how poorly cabbies were paid. So in the new Uber era: no tipping necessary.Uber drivers make about $15-20 per hour on average, then have to pay for their own maintenance and gas after Uber takes its 20% cut. Thats not a bad wage, plus the flexible hours are nice, but its not great either, and its not like theyre going to get regular merit raises. But thats all kind of beside the point.Tips are an unfortunate relic of (among other things) the longstanding and ongoing underpayment of people in the service industry, but for now theyre also the reality. People working at jobs where their employers dont provide adequate support  good wages, benefits, equity, expenses  often must rely on the unofficial and unreliable tip system to make ends meet.Uber drivers fall under that category, since the service is no different from other car services where tipping is standard, but the companys narrative and the app itself are designed to exclude them from the tip process in order to give the service the illusion of economy. Its shameful, really.I know its not easy, because part of the reason you use the app is so you dont have to carry cash, and because tipping is old hat. Blame Uber for not including the option and for telling you theres no need to tip. Well, of course theres no need. Theres no need to tip anyone. Youre just a dick if you dont, since, until employers stop treating their workers as adversaries and obfuscating the actual cost of a product or service, youre on the hook to make up the difference.Dont like it? Me neither. But dont take it out on the driver, or the barista, or the waiter, or the cook, or the cleaner, or the mover, by not tipping. If you really want to broadcast your disappointment with the situation, support businesses that are doing right by their employees, and decline to support businesses that arent. (I dont use Uber, myself, and maybe you shouldnt either. There are plenty of options to choose from.)One of the unfortunate dark sides of the gig/1099 economy is this: if the price seems too good to be true, the company isnt paying for it  the worker is. Who better to subsidize the price than the people who have no choice in the matter, since the alternative is often no job at all? Its exploitative, and you should be suspicious of every business model that drags its workers with it on a race to the bottom.Exceptions are conspicuous (and meritorious): companies like Honor and Rinse make waves just with the uncontroversial action of making their employees W-2s. It behooves companies claiming to be progressive to enact progressive policies.Cutting out middlemen, fighting entrenched legislation and established players, leveraging instant connectivity, these are all great things. I congratulate Uber on its conquest. I dont think its evil, but it sure isnt on the side of the angels, either. Tech is supposed to be a rising tide that lifts all boats.Until that happens, tip your Uber driver.