Messaging apps and social networks have overtaken email for many consumers as their primary way of communicating with people  with some collaborationstartupslike Slack specifically aiming to kill email altogether. Now a new email apphopes to reversethat trend, bringing people back into the email fold by adopting messaging characteristics.TL;DR, as the app is called, lets users create short emails of no more than 30 words, giving senders the option then to link to longer versions of their messages or other supporting documents. It then lets users scroll through emailthreads as they would through a messaging conversation, with easy options to discard those that are no longer needed. Its out today with a Gmail integration and asan iOS app and with a Chrome extension, with apps for other platforms coming soon.The app is the brainchild ofAmi Ben David, one of the co-founders of Everything.me, the Android launcher startup. (He left Everything.me last year butremains a shareholder.) TL;DR is launching with seed funding from Moshe Hogeg and Singulariteam, a VCout of Israel that today announced a new $102 million fund.I started TL;DRbecause I hated my email, he tells me. It was eating my life.What TL;DR is offering as its unique selling point is brevity. Those who use the app areeffectively forced into trying tothink of how to distill their messages into fewerwords, while those who are using other email programs will see their messages cut off at the 30-word mark. For those browsing their feeds,threads can be viewed effectively like messaging conversations.What TL;DR is emphatically not doing (yet) is trying to figure out the best way of shortening the text for you,  la Summly, although this could certainly be one way that it might evolve.To be sure, there have been other apps that havetried to tackle the email conundrum, all trying to improve on different aspects of what makes email so annoying.Mailbox (now a part of Dropbox) focuses on making it as simple as possible to discard or file away emails. Inbox from Google attempts to apply some of the companys search smarts in a fresh start that goes beyond email to help you get back to what matters. Dispatchgives users an easy set of buttonsto respond to emails when users are on the move.You can see some of the other popular choices in this quick straw poll I ran on Twitter. What this shows is that email is a platform that is crying out to be made better, but also thatthere is a crowded roomful of companies already trying to do so.