Facebook today announced it has acquired personalized shopping search engine TheFind to help improve its commerce ads. TheFind had raised $26 millionfrom Lightspeed and Redpoint since getting off the ground around 2005, but will now be shut down. Some, but not all, members of the team are joining Facebook.TheFinds product allowed people to get customized recommendations for products while searching through its massive database of products. A user could entersomewhat generic terms like black sweater and then compare prices on black sweaters from a wide array of retailers aggregated by TheFind. They could also discover places to buy their chosen product locally if they want it immediately.Just last month, Facebook launched a special ad unit designed to highlight specific products a merchant is trying to sell. TheFind could help Facebook better match not just a company to a user, but make sure the products shown in the ads are things theyre likely to buy.Over the past few years, Facebook had increasingly courted big-brand advertisers and developers seeking to buy app install ads. But with the new product ads and this acquisition, it seems intent on squeezing more cash out of direct marketers, e-commerce companies, and fashion brands.Facebook tells me:Were excited to welcome TheFind to Facebook. TheFinds talented team has built a successful search engine that connects people to products. Together, we believe we can make the Facebook ads experience even more relevant and better for consumers. Our business is about connecting people with the topics, companies, brands, and increasingly products they care about and we look forward to doing that with TheFind on board.TheFind writes:We are joining Facebook!For the last nine years, weve worked hard to bring you a shopping experience thats easy, efficient and fun  searching all the stores on the web to find just the right products youre looking to buy.We are now starting our next chapter by combining forces with Facebook to do even more for consumers. Facebooks resources and platform give us the opportunity to scale our expertise in product sourcing to the over 1 billion people that use the platform.Key members of our team are joining the company and will be working hard to integrate our technology to make the ads you see on Facebook every day better and more relevant to you.Unfortunately, this means we will be taking our search engine offline in the next few weeks.Thank you for your loyalty and for making this a fun journey for all of us!