Brian OMalley is good at his job. Hesgood enough,in fact, that two years, ago, Accel Partners plucked him out of his former firm, Battery Ventures, so he could bat for its team instead.As venture industry watchers know, these moves are rare, and they often pay off. Two famous examples include Sequoia Capital enticing Jim Goetz to leave Accel in 2004; Goetz hassince led hugely profitable deals for Sequoia, including WhatsApp. Peter Fenton, also formerly of Accel, has similarly done a bang-up job for Benchmark, which lured him away in 2006.Earlier this week, we sat down with OMalley at Accels new San Francisco office to talk about switching firms, as well as why, despite a sudden cooling toward on-demand companies, hes as bullish as ever about them.Were running onepart of that chat today; stay tuned for the rest this coming weekend.TC: Across both Battery and Accel, youve backed numerous startups that meet on-demand needs, like HotelTonight, the sports ticketing app Gametime, and the food delivery app Sprig. Are you still interested in apps that meet last-minute needs? BO: At Accel, weve done three on-demand companies. We put a small piece in Sprig. Weve backed the [Uber-for-kids startup] Shuddle. And we invested in Din[formerly called Forage], which is kind of like Blue Apron but that leverages the whole on-demand infrastructure, so you arent relying on all this packaging and UPS to get food across the country.TC: You mean Din ispiggybacking off other on-demand startups? BO: If you think about it, Uber, Postmates, Sidecar  they all have APIs, so we can take advantage of the fact that billions of dollars have been invested in last-mile infrastructure and that those companies are set up to be API drivena turnkey resource. Why build when we can take advantage of what these guys already have?TC: You also mentioned the importance of packaging. BO: It really matters. When people get boxes of dry ice and space-age packing materials, it piles up after a while, and thats a big reason for churn. Meanwhile, we can play into food trends that people are excited about, which is around eating locally and eating fresher.[Using other startups infrastructure] works, too, becausethe times when you want to drop this stuff off at someones front door is 2 to 5 p.m., when those other guys arent so busy, so you can take advantage of a slower period during their days.TC: What other kinds of verticals are you seeing or imagining couldbe builtoff others logistics systems?BO: There a wide range of end markets, but onecore premise at Accel is that its not justabout building agood business but trying to find something that can be truly exceptional and break out. Sothe categories Im focused on are massive categories. Somewherebetween the grocery store and restaurant experience is a trillion-dollar market.TC: Youthink thats still wide open despite all the related startups and funding weve seen? BO: Yes.Blue Apron has done really well, but [in terms of revenue], theyre essentially still the size of four or five Safeway [grocery] stores. Theyre growing quickly and have raised a ton of money so have a lot of resources, but in the grand scheme of grocery spend, theyre solving a very narrow use case.Just like with restaurants and grocery stores, youre going to have different companies emerge to serve different use cases, includingdifferent companies that emerge asregional powerhouses. [Think] grocery stores like PigglyWiggly that youve never even heard of but that are multibillion businesses.TC: Likeregional Instacarts.BO: Right, byleveraging the Postmates and Ubers of the world, you can get into markets more quickly.The challenge is around how good of a service experienceyou can build, and once someone becomes your customer, whats the probability that theyll become your customerfor life. Butif you can make the logistics work from a cost perspective and you can make people love your service, theresstill opportunity.There are still a lot of changes in the way that American households spend their money and want to live that havent fully been met with new services.TC: Shuddle seems to play into that. Are its employees contract or full-time employees, and what do you make of the broader battle over whether they should be one or the other?BO: I think itwill take a while to be fully figured out, but I dont think that everything that we dub an on demand service will automatically face the same challenges as Uber. There are other businesses where theres a legacy of contract workers, including decades of the pizza delivery guy working as a contractor.Uber has become a service that users cant live without and its drivers wont churn out. I think the net result of legislationwill be that drivers and users lose [financially] while Uberremainsin the drivers seat.