Its been a while since we checked in with Toymail, the kids messagingstartupthat piloted its first product on Kickstarter back in fall 2013. Itsidea was to turnWi-Fi-enabled toys into a screen-lessconnectivitymedium that let parents send voice messages to their kids via a companion smartphone app.The basic idea isto housesimplemobile phone-like features (i.e. one-to-one messaging) in a far cuter and kid-friendly package,targeting kids agedtwo to eight years old.The Wi-Fitoys offer the promise of play withthe parental reassurance of connectivity butwithout the unwanted side-effect of trainingyoung kids tobecomefixatedon screens from a very early age. The Internet-connectedfunctionality in Toymails toys is limited toaudio features. Anyvisuals  beyond the look of the toy itself  have to be imagined by the child.A couple of years on from its Kickstarter and Toymail is inY Combinators winter 2016 batch. Co-founderGauri Nanda says its now fully focused on building out a messaging platform capable of addressing the mass market, with itsearliercrowdfunding campaign having been a way to beta test their ideas in public (theyraised just over $80,000 via Kickstarter, and have soldmore than 20,000 toysto date).Weve had a really big year. We sold about $800,000 worth organically of that product  without any marketing and ad spend. And since then weve also raised money from Amazon and Verizon, and now were in Y Combinator, Nanda tells TechCrunch.Over the last year weve been perfecting the product and releasing some new characters around it, to really get the product ready for mass market.Its a huge untapped market. 95 per cent of kids under 10 dont have their own phone. And the reason for that is of course that screen time is such a struggle and phones arent really designed with children in mind. And so what were really building here is the messaging platform that makes sense for children, she adds.YC enables us to really look at how does this become a billion dollar business and scale this up? Really look at this is not just a single toy were building We want to build this up as an entire communication platform for kids.After its Kickstarter, Toymailhas attracted investment from Amazon, via its Alexa Fund, and also Verizon (the parent of TechCrunchs parent, AOL)  taking in $1.5 million in seed funding from these investments plussome angel investors, in addition to $120,000 from YC.Prior to this the startup was bootstrapping, helped along by$10 million in sales the co-founders generated from an earlierhardware product they built (Clocky).Nanda couches the deals with Amazon and Verizon as strategic investments. One of the very interesting things thats happened over the last year is a number of telecoms have come to us saying they dont have a device to sell children under ten, she says. So were starting to partner up with the mobile carriers to make this happen for them.(Although, to be clear, currently thetoys are Wi-Fi only  with no data plan option.Nanda says eventually they might offer a data version but is evidently in no rush, adding:Its working very well with Wi-Fibecause kids are at home.)One of the more significant tweaks Toymailmade to its original business model was to quickly drop the initial stipulation of a price for sending messages.Messages arenow free to send and receive, and theres no subscription model linked to the toys as such  rather the idea is to make money from the hardwareand via what will amount to a Toymail app store theyre planning to launch in future where parents will be able to pay for additional content for kids.The store willletthird party companies withrelevant childrens audio content sell add-ons via the store, with Toymail taking a 30 per cent cut of any sales at that point. The aim is to launch the app store by June, according toNanda.Essentially what were building is an app store that enables parents to purchase these songs and stories. Or perhaps educational data. Or things around meal time. Anything they want they can send as audio to the toys, she says.One of the partnerships we have right now  Amazon is an investor in our company  so soon the children will be able to ask their toy to read them a story or play them a song from the Alexa network, she adds.Last week the startupopened up pre-sales for its nextline of plush toys, called Talkies (cue up your jokes about hardware that feels more like software ), which willbringsome new tech elements into the mix  including an accelerometer-powered feature that letsparents receive a push notification when their child has picked up the toy so they can then send them a voice message at the same time if they choose; and a funny voice filter feature that lets kids shake the toy to change the sound of their voice when they record a message.The Talkies willalso be able to be connected to each other, so kids can send messages directly to their friends toysas well as to their parents phones. Theres still no screens on the toys to monopolizeyoung childrens attention, but the toys do have a four button interface.Toymailclaims this is simple enough to be used by kids as young as two. And hopefully less mesmerizing than the chameleonic smartphone screen.What were really building now is a communication network. Beyond that one-to-one messaging were now enabling kids to be able to connect with all of their loved ones, whether they have a phone or another Toymail toy, saysNanda. Audio messaging is the beginning but were starting to add features like being able to send digital  GIFs for example. So a child could be rewarded for usage  so the more they stay connected with grandma they could be awarded points to unlock features in their toy. And theyll get GIFs like audio emojis or songs or stories.Additional platformfunctionalitycoming down the line will also allow Talkie using kids to share the audio GIFs theyve received with friends and family  so parents should brace themselves to bespammed with audible emojis by theirkidsWere finding all of these features increase engagement incredibly. Even with our first toy, we saw that for every message a parent was sending to a child a child would send about four messages back,adds Nanda. Thats really because the child is looking at this as both a toy as well as a communications device.The pre-sale price per Talkie is $59, with the aim being to ship the toys by the end ofApril. The retail price after the pre-order period will be $79.