Launched this week, London-based startup Trax & Wax is the first vinyl subscription service focused on sub-genres within electronic dance music. It workswith the most prominent distributorsof dance music including Rush Hour, Clone, Syncrophone, and Word & Sound to selecta personalized monthly box of12 records.Currently, Trax & Wax offers four niche music categories for the subscription:There are also two tiers of service (2 or 4 records per month). Each monthly release is a surprise. Subscribers will not know whats next until opening the package.Trax & Wax co-founders Manon Clayeux and Thomas Amundsen explained to TechCrunch that the company used the old idea of DJ pools as a model for this new service:It is similar in that customers will receive a selection of brand new releases on a regular basis.Well also allow our customers to sign up for different packages that suit their needs as a vinyl fan or club DJ.Further, well enable labels to submit their new releases for consideration so that anyone has the chance to beincluded in the monthly box. In that sense, I think the model is similar and a perfect tool for both home listenersand professional DJs looking for new records to include in their sets.Trax & Waxis self-funded,and the first shipments are set to go out next month.Clayeux and Amundsen say they are primarily focused on the UK market, but other areas can still use the service if they pay shipping costs.Why so niche? Is there a market for a service like this?Vinyl subscription services are great until a bad record arrives in the mail. Ive tried a number a different record clubs,and I always cancel after 3-6 months for the same reason: one too many records that werent the type of music Ienjoyed most.Thebiggest issue with vinyl subscription services is that they arent niche enough, and if a userreally digs a certain sound theres no way to get more of that type of music.Record clubs oftenjust send whats popular and try to lure in vinyl lovers with fancy cocktail recipes and exclusive artwork. Isnt itsupposed to be all about the music?Even sites like Prescription Vinyl that are supposedly more niche, arent really that niche. For example, one category on Prescription Vinyl is electronic, beats, and downtempo. Anyone that listens to some form of electronic music knows its a pretty broad category with tons of different beat patternsand tempos. And users crave these different sub-genres.There are sub-genres and micro communities within every type of music, and perhapsniche vinyl subscription offerings will become a trend. There are already some other companies testing out the idea with hyper-specificmarkets. One of the more popular niche services,Flying Vinyl, is all aboutalternative rock music. Another one, Feedbands, focuses on unsigned indie artists.But what about electronic music?Electronic music is growing like crazy, and I expect to see more and more sub-genres and micro communities pop up as it grows in popularity.By focusing on a personalized experience and very specific audience, Trax & Wax could create a tribe of loyalists that thrives on regularly getting freshunderground dance music releases.