Clinical trialslanded inthetech spotlight earlier this year when Apple launched an iOS software frameworkto let users sign up for medical trials. The challenge generally for medical researchers remainssigning the right people up to studies withvery specific criteria for participants.On one level thatsa matching problem which suggests technology can help (Apple certainly thinks so).TrialMatch, a hack demoed onstage here today at the TechCrunch Disrupt SF Hackathon, is also targetingthis problem. Co-founder Brian Clark has been working on the idea for around six months.Overnight here at thehackathon he builtan interface that pulls in the 200,000 clinical trials onClinicalTrials.gov, cleans up the data to establish clearinclusive/exclusion criteria, and lets potential triallists create a profile on TrialMatch tobe automatically matched totrials that match their personal criteria. The systemthen sendsan email when a potential match is established.The aim isto allow users to import their medical data into the system via an API (although Clark didnt pull in any actual medical recordsduring the hack because he hasnt paid for HIPAA compliance at this pre-MVP stage).We scan your entire medical record and well say do you match all the inclusionary criteria and do you not match all of the exclusion criteria Or you say I want to get it for my neck cancer, well run it for that specifically, and then well send you any matches that you get that already exist. Or when a new clinical trial comes about well automatically notify you of the new one, he explains.The germ of the idea he originally had was tocreate a database of medical records. Butafter talking to doctors that washoned to a more specific premise aiming to match patients toclinical trials.Clarks co-founder also hasa medical condition so has a personal interest in the space, after spending several monthstrying to get into a particular clinical trial only to bebeing rejected at the last step because he didnt match a specific criteria.We wanted to create the worlds largest database of medical records and give it to researchers but we didnt know what that would be useful for. So we went and talked to hundreds of doctors and a number of those doctors said I would loveto pick out my patients for my clinical trials from that database, Clark tells TechCrunch.Theres not a lot of really good technology in the space to actually match patients.Research firmswill typically partner with a hospital to identify potential trial participantsamong existing patients. Or else they hire a contracted research organization to conduct a marketing recruitment campaign seeking participants. Its a lot of manual stuff, he notes. Its not really that tech heavy.While the majority of matching criteria can be gleaned from a scan of a users medical record  Clark estimates this at about 75 percent  other trial criteria may need additional data. Criteria thatcant be gleaned from a medical record couldbe something like the participantneeds to be able to speak a particular language, for instance. Pulling additionaldata from elsewhere is something the team is going to look into in future, he says.It is alsospecifically thinking about integrating with 23andmes API as a way to further flesh out the data it can accesson potential triallists.Maybe well pull your 23andme data  based on certain clinicaltrials are now recruiting based on certain genomic factors people have, can we help recruit to those trials as well? 23andme has an API where they can add genomic data to our system, he notes. We would love  and this is tricky, we dont know if this would work from a business standpoint yet  if we narrow it down to these 1,000 patients are like high targeted patients, can we just pay for their 23andme data? And would that result in more clinical matches for them?But matching patients to clinic trials is also about more than just identifying specific medical criteria. Researchers need to be confident a selected triallist is going to be able to participate in the way a particulartrial demands  so thats another more amorphous challengethatTrialMatch needs to be thinking about.Just matching the patient is only one part of the problem, admits Clark. A big part is can you actually understand what this clinical trial is going to do to you? How responsible for it are you? What are you going to take? How long is it going to last for? What are the side-effects? Theres a long list of that and patients cant understand that all the time. So thats part of the recruitment process. Its not just getting the match. Its making sure they understand, when we say this is matched to you, you know what this is going to do so you actually are compelled to sign up for it. So thats very important as well.It certainly is a lot to think about, but Clarkpoints toclinical trials beinga $260 billion a year industry  with $20 billion spent just on recruiting patients  so the sizeof the opportunity is clear. Still,the various layers and playersinvolved herelikelyexplain why recruitment for clinical trials remainssuch an expensive and manual process. Its not so much about building fancy tech, as accessing sensitive data.The problems kind of abound with this, he admits. Which is why its such a big industry and why theres not a real tech player winning it yet and we would love to be that one.Convincing peopleto sign up to sharesensitive medical data with a third-party matching platform is one obvious challenge. Potential legal issues around per-patient recruitment couldbe another. We dont want to go to jail to do this! he adds, with a laugh.How might TrialMatchget patients to sign up? Thats what were figuring out at the moment, he says, adding that theyre talking with a cancer treatment and research institute about doing an unpaid pilot to test how effectively the system works.Advertising when people Google particular symptoms to flag up potentially relevant clinical trials could be one route to reachingrelevant people, he suggests.Probably the biggest question is how do we figure out the business side. And how do we build a good brand for patients, he adds. We have to be very trusted by the patient to handle this safely for them.Regulations around storing health data, such as HIPAA compliance, areless ofa health startup roadblock at this point  with Clark noting that thirdparty services, such asAtlas Health, sell HIPAA Compliant cloud hosting. You throw money at that problem, he adds.