 Ever felt like there are too many keys on yourfull size keyboard when all you need to do for the next hour is press Ctrl+Z? Of course you have. Trickey is a nifty littlehardware projectthats aiming to fix that by letting you replace a full size USB keyboard with a dinky unit that consists of whatever keys you happen to need for thatgame or graphics package  in whatever configuration you fancy. Saving on desk space and wrist movements in the process.Just plug in Trickeysreplaceable keys wherever you want them in the sockets providedonthe board and use the companion key writing software to customize the keys to your requirements. So you couldhave a physical keyboard that only consists of cursor keys, or spec out thespecific numbers and lettersneeded for a particular game or piece of editing software. You can also save on key presses by creatingsingle keys to representcombination key presses, like Ctrl Z.If you need more than six keys, multipleTrickey boards canbe plugged together to create a larger unit consisting of multiple grids. (The team says it has tested up to 20 keys in configuration and found no latency issues.)The keys themselves can also be customized with your own key mat designs, thanks to removable transparent key caps.Heres an example of custom designs on one of the current Trickey prototypes. Itsure iscute.Trickey is a (working) prototypeat this point. Its Japanese creators arecurrently running a crowdfunding campaign on Kickstarter to turn it into a shipping product. At the time of writing just over half the $30,000 funding target has been pledged with more than a month to go.One of Trickeys creators, Keisuke Shiro, anengineering student at the University of Tokyo, says the projectwas sparked by a rapid prototyping contest at the university  which has helped them with parts and equipment costs up to this point. Shiroalso works part time for robotics and engineering firmQibiTech which has been helping commercialize the product.This idea was derived from my favorite game, which has awkward key binding. I wasnt satisfied with the binding, and I thought about replaceable keyboard, he tells TechCrunch.Trickey is a normal HID USB keyboard. So Trickey works on any systems which supports HID USB keyboards.And we are planning to make the writer software on Windows and Mac OS.Already we have developed the prototype software on Windows.Development work on Trickey startedlast December. And the team is hoping to ship to backers by September. Early bird pledges have been snapped up so the Trickey keyboard now starts at $139 for one standard kit  which gives you six keys to customize, plus one spare in case you forget where you put akey after you unplugged it.