Last year we reported that Truecaller  the popular, smart phonebook app and startup was looking to raise $100 millionat a $1 billion valuation. But while therehas been nodevelopment on that front, the startup has been on a consolidation kick as it aims to become cash-flow positive. After confirming30 layoffs in December, today the company announcedthat it is merging features of one of its apps, Truedialer, into its flagship Truecaller app  and shutting downTruedialer in the process.Now in addition to existing caller ID options, Truecaller users will getfeatures like smart call history, availability and a new dialer to make calls from within the Truecaller app.Truecaller  which is available on iOS and Android  has not given a final closure datefor Truedialer, an Android-only app. But it has started to prompt users to migrate to Truecaller today.Truecallers separate Android app for SMS  TrueMessenger  and itsnew SDK will remainunaffected.The company saidthat the decision to phase out Truedialer was to enhance features in Truecaller, in part as a response to users.Over the past year weve studied user behavior and listened to our users, and most importantly ourselves, weve realized that both the apps offering these tremendous benefits would better fit together and will be more valuable for the users, aspokesperson told us.Its also the case that Truedialer was lesspopular than TrueCaller. According to data from App Annie, in India  Truecallers biggest market  the flagship app is asteady presence in the top ten Google Play store. Truedialer, meanwhile, hovers in the 200s.Truedialers last reported figure was over 10 million users as of April last year. Truecaller now has seen over 250 million downloads.But while its been a longstanding strategy among app developers to grow user bases byexpanding their app catalogues (see: Facebook and its army of apps like Messenger, WhatsApp and Instagram, all hugely popular in their own right outside of Facebook itself), it looks like Truecaller is taking a different route by enhancing its most popular app and cutting out some of the overlap among users.This could also help Truecaller compete against bigger companies that offercompeting services.Both Facebook and Google are among those that have stepped into the smart phone app space directly.Googles own dialer app and a similar effort from Facebook could be seenas serious competition, butMamedi claimed he sees these asan energy boost.Were happy to see companies like Facebookand Google looking at this space and trying to compete with us, he said. People get excited that we are doing the right things. We have such a head start and community of loyal fans.That community of loyal fanshas helped True Softwareattract some $80 million in private backingso far from top-shelf investors that include Atomico, KPCB, and Sequoia.But more generally, funding is getting harderfor a number of startups, with valuations under pressure for many. A source close to the matter tells us that TrueCallers efforts to land new funding at that $1 billion valuation didnt advance last year. Mamedi, meanwhile, denied there was a new round in the works, and added thatTruecaller is not looking for new investment.Wedont need external funding, were actually making money right now, the Truecaller CEO told TechCrunch. Were in a really good position werestill a small company and Id say were a very efficient companyRaising funds takes so much focus from your core business.Success has lately been seen as how much money you raise, Idont see that as a healthy perspective. Were focused on our product and bringing the best experience to our users.Swedish publication Dagens Industrireported that the startup lost 84 million Swedish kronor ($9.9 million) in 2014. It has not disclosed figures for 2015.Mamedi told the publication that Truecalleraims to becash-flow positive by the end of 2016 following the introduction of targeted advertising, its first effort to monetize its free apps.That will also be another by-product of merging Truedialer features into Truecaller: the aim is to get users to spend more time in the app, and to get them using it for more functions. Bycombingthe userbases of Truecaller and Truedialer into a single app, Truecalleralso increasesits advertising revenue potential by catering to more eyeballs.