A newer, much-debatedsocial network called Tsu has launched a workaround to Apples longtime ban on incentivized app installs (aka pay-per-installs). Technically, users are being rewarded for creating content on Tsu and inviting othersto join, but themoney they earn forthis activity comes from Tsus advertisers. That means Tsu serves as something of a middle man for companies that would otherwise want to buy app downloads, if thatwasnt in violation of Apples terms.Though the addition of app install ads on Tsu is still relatively new, the service has already snagged advertisers like Twitter, Lyft, Taco Bell, Pandora, and others.Tsus service, in case you missed it,launched last year. A social network that pays you to friend,proclaimedThe New York Times.A social network which pays users to post, said Re/code. Calling itself a social and payment network, Tsu basically pays its user base for their in-app activity and for helping it grow.While social media marketers have been experimenting on Tsu, it hasnt reached the mainstream. However, it recentlyclaimed to have topped two million users. Today, its iOS appranks #261 in the Social Networking category, according to App Annie, and on Android, it has over half a million downloads.Whats really happening onTsu is that its offering app publishers a new way torun something likeincentivized app install campaigns  but without directly compensating users. That allows Tsu to operate in a gray areawith regardto Apples ban onpay-per-installs.For a bit of background here, attracting new users to mobile applications has been an ongoing challenge for app developers, especially as Apples iTunes App Stores Top Charts highlight more recently popular and growing applications, not new launches.To manipulatethe charts, developers in years past would contract with third-parties like Tapjoy to run incentivized app installation campaigns  meaning, schemes where developers directly rewarded end users, usually with virtual currency, for downloading new applications and games.The idea, originally, was that developers couldfund new installations of their appsin order to push uptheir apps ranking on the iTunes Top Charts. That, in turn, would help them grow their user base and then their bottom line. As Apple considers the velocity of new installs as a part of its ranking algorithms, a pay-per-install campaign in yearspastcouldsend a new title climbing the charts. But thatgrowth was not organic  it was bought and paid for. And it was cheating, said Apple in an update to its Developer Agreement, which allowed it tobanpay-per-install applications from the App Store.And nowforyears, Apple has maintained its ban on blatantincentivized install campaigns. It also removed apps that functioned as alternative app stores, too, as they became anew means for similar chart manipulations.Thesechanges, in part, helped pave the way forthe massive successof new download drivers like Facebooks app install ads, an ad format thathas now been adopted by much of the industry. Facebook todayuses its relationship with developers, ad targeting capabilities and its significant mobilefootprint to get users clicking on its app install ads.Unlike earlier app install campaigns, which attracted low-quality downloads, Facebooks precise targeting brought app publishers a better subset of users. Andthe payout for Facebook has been incredibly lucrative.Tsu, however, says users should share inad revenues, since its userscontent that helps a network attract advertisers in the first place. Its altruistic-sounding vision references this belief:Users should be compensated for their likeness, image and content. Its simple and its the right thing to doWe share social revenues with everyone, for any type of content, size of network or level of influence.Its very touchy-feely stuff, but it obfuscates Tsus real plan.Above: Tsus founder Sebastian Sobczaks public feedThe servicespayment scheme is a bitlike an MLM  users are paid based on the engagement they see with their content, and how many new users they recruit.Today,10% of the total ad revenue goes to Tsu itself. Half of the remainder goes to Tsus content creators (users), and the other halfgoes to the network that brought in thosecontent creators to the platform. That is, when User A invites User B, and then User B shares popular content, User A is compensated for that. The better a users network, or family tree in Tsu lingo, the more money you make.Meanwhile, Tsu places ads around the content, and revenue from those ads accrues into a pool until Tsu distributes that moneyvia its algorithm. (More on Tsus advertising scheme is describedhere.)Where Tsudiffers from your standard pyramid scheme is that the money thats funneled to users doesnt come from the suckers onthe bottom rungs, but rather from the outside  from Tsus advertisers.On the web, Tsu runs display ads. On mobile, it runs app install ads.Where things get murky is that Tsu users are basically being incentivizedto download apps thoughnot paid directly  and to recruit more people who will do the same.In short, because the socialnetworks entire payment scheme is related to the redistribution of ad revenues, Tsu users are more likely to click on itsads. They understand that theyre helping to generate revenues by doing so, and those revenues are ultimately funneled back to their own accounts.In addition, Tsu is marketing thesedownloads to a user base who understands that the more people they recruit, the more they get paid. That means more eyeballs for the ads, more clicks, more installs, and ultimately, more payments to users for installing apps.A quick poke through Tsus feed shows that many app publishers have taken the bait. In addition to those mentioned above (Twitter, Lyft, etc.), weve seen ads for several games including Game of War  Fire Age, High 5 Casino Slots, Madden NFL Mobile, and Slot Machines*.One otherdifference between older pay-per-install campaigns and Tsus indirect payment scheme: developers in the pasttypicallyrewarded users with virtual currency they could use in their games. Tsu today is paying users in cash.Whiles Tsus advertisersare not necessarily acquiring high-quality downloads like those driven by networks like Facebook, incentivized install campaigns were never really about quality, just quantity. Drive enough downloads overa period of time, and those pay-per-installappsbecome more visible on Apples Top Charts.Tsu, with its millions of users motivated to click app adsfor personal gain, todayoffers a new meansfor publishers tobuy downloadsbut without looking like theydid.* Note: We reached out to Tsus advertisers for comment, but none have yet to respond. We asked Tsu a number of specific questions related to its revenue scheme, but the company declined to comment. 