Amazonis changing how it pays royalties to writers who have self published via its Kindle Direct Publishing (KDP) platform and opted to make their book exclusive to its platformto qualify fora cut of the royalties itpays out when KDPbooks are read via theKindle Unlimited all-you-can-read subscriptionservice, or via the Kindle Owners Lending Library (KOLL).The KOLLgivesusersof Amazons e-readers who alsoshell outfor itsone-year membership, Prime, the ability toborrow from a catalogue of Kindle e-books for free.Amazon sets a monthly global fund to incentivize authors to participate in itsKDP Select program, dividing the pot of money between authorswhose e-books have been borrowed or read for free (via KU) that month.Starting on July 1 Amazon says it will be switching how it calculates KDP royalties from the current situation,of qualified borrows, to paying out based on the number of pages read. It will also be changing thebonus programs forKDP Select authors to the same pay per page model.Currently itcalculates KDPshare of royalties based on either downloads (for KOLL), or how frequentlyKindle Unlimited customers choose abook and read more than 10% of it (hence that qualified borrows phrase).Were making this switch in response to great feedback we received from authors who asked us to better align payout with the length of books and how much customers read. Under the new payment method, youll be paid for each page individual customers read of your book, the first time they read it, is howAmazon explainsthe change.Given that the length of an e-book page varies depending on the device itsbeing read on, Amazon has developed what it dubs astandardized approach to determine how many pages of a KDP e-book have been read each month  coming up with yet another acronym for this (aka the Kindle Edition Normalized Page Count or KENPC).So this per pages royalties model is actuallya per unit of in-bookcontent as determined by Amazon model (charts and images within a books text will apparently count towards the KENPC, so its not just per unit of text).Add to thatroyalty generating pages also only start when Amazon says they do  based on where it determinesthe book itselfstarts. So long lists thanking your myriad muses before chapter 1 kicks off wont help bump up your royalties. Indeed, on the contrary, they might put a reader off from ploughing on any further and lead to no royalties being triggered at all. Dont blockyour story from starting, and tella compelling story is basically Amazonssubtext here.We calculate KENPC based on standard settings (e.g. font, line height, line spacing, etc.), and well use KENPC to measure the number of pages customers read in your book, starting with the Start Reading Location (SRL) to the end of your book. Amazon typically sets SRL at chapter 1 so readers can start reading the core content of your book as soon as they open it, the companynotes.Amazon is not saying how many KDP Select pages are read on average per month. Andthe KDP Select royalties fund is also a moveable feast  with Amazon setting its level eachmonth (its $3 million this month). So there are plenty of question marks about how the new pay per page modelwill impact and incentivize indie authors using Amazons platform. One thing is clear: the ecommerce behemothisdeployingeconomic levers toshape creative content in the interests of e-book selling.Paying royalties after 10% of a book isread likelyencouraged authors to submit shorter e-books (to reach the 10% threshold faster)  which perhaps annoyed readers with the sense they werent getting much e-book for their cash(assuming they paid to read it). Amazons new payment mechanism will discourage indies from writing shorter e-books generally for its platform. Or from writing dull tomes that readers flee from.Switching to a model that rewards authors for reader engagement, based on getting peoplereading as quickly as possible and keeping them turning the pages, is the sort of advice acommercially-minded publisher would be dispensing. So Amazon is usinga payment mechanismtoschool indieauthors asan editor might on a winning formula.While that might be good for business it remains to be seen if it will be goodfor creative content.As ad-funded online publishinghas generateda viral rash of clickbait, Amazons puppeteering of indie writers may welltrigger a rush tocliffhangers and button-pushing formulas. This is, unsurprisingly, adriveto begetpage turners exclusive to Amazons platform, not encourage indies to submit difficult literary works.Butagain, thatsthesame impetus as anymajor publisher. And theres nothing minor aboutAmazon.