You know when youre looking at your phone and you see five bars and you think youre golden. Then you try to do something and the app youre using is just hanging in spite of the bars.Twin Prime, a company that came out of stealth this week, and announced $9.5M in funding, wants to solve that problem. Its working with app developers to make sure that you dont face those kind of performance issues and the app just works.The funding is led by DFJ Venture and True Ventures with participation from Milliways Ventures and Moment Ventures. Om Malik from True Ventures and Bubba Murarka from DFJ will join the Twin Prime Board of Directors under the terms of the deal.The product itself consists of a software development kit, which developers can integrate into an app in a few minutes, says CEO and co-founder Kartik Chandrayana. Whats more, his companydoesnttouch the content because there is no caching involved.As he points out, mobile brings a whole of host of challenges to what they call the the last mile of delivery. App performance issues could be due to a myriad of problems from network traffic, a poor WiFi signal, location, interference or an issue with the phone or operating system version.We already know that mobile phones behave differently depending on where you are. As we move around, mobile performance moves with us, he said.The company gathers data and encourages an A/B testing approach in which one set of users gets the accelerated app and one doesnt. As customers go through this initial process, Twin Prime gathers data about how the app performs under a variety of conditions. They can adjust the parametersto make sure whatever issues are out there arent having a major impact on performance.We are constantly refining the data to optimize the experience. We are building a performance heat map of the world, Chandrayana explained.Their whole selling point is that frustrated users are bad for business. In fact, research has shown that if an app has a serious performance issue, users coulddrop it and not return.If youre thinking this is thejob of the content delivery network, Chandrayana says CDNsdo their job well, but a CDN was built mostly for the web and it doesnt handle performance issues around mobile appsnearly as well, especially those last mile issues thatTwin Prime concentrates on  at least thats what he claims.And if youre wonderingabout how Twin Prime fits with applications performance management tools like New Relic or AppDynamics, Chandrayana sees it as a complementary technology where APM identifies app performance issues and Twin Prime helps to fix them.Chandrayana met co-founder Satish Raghunath while they were still in graduate school, and he jokes that they have known each other longer than they have known their wives. After working for a number of years in networking, they got together to focus on mobile performance and how to make apps run faster.The company, which was launched in 2013, was bootstrapped until this weeks funding announcement. Itcurrently has20 employees, and plans to expand thecustomer support arm and sales and marketing using the new funds.It iscurrently working on5-10 apps and another 20-30 companies are in trial at variousstages, he reports.Its still early days, and it remains to be seen how well this will scale, but Twin Prime hasidentified a space inside the mobile app process, and they are trying to maximize performance within the niche.