Despitereportstothe contrary,Twitters new algorithmic timeline,announced last month, has only now reached all of Twitters user base. That being said, the company does have some early data on how well this updated timeline experience has been performing so far. According to the company, few users are choosing to opt outof having their tweets sorted for them automatically.In fact, the company says that the opt-out rate, since launch, is in the low single digits.In addition, Twitter says that it has seen across-the-board increases in things like per-user favorites, retweets, replies, tweetsanddaily usage following the new timelines debut. Though the company hasnt shared any hard numbers related to these increases, its at least an early sign that making the switch away from presenting tweets in pure chronological order could be working.In case you missedthe fuss, Twitter announced a drastic change in February to the way its service works, designed to encourage growth and activity on its network. The company has been facing stagnant user growth, which has seenits stock hitting all-time lows. This prompted Twitter to rethink some of the core tenets as to how it operates, as well asits overall user experience. Among these was the idea to present a filtered timeline to users which would show recommended tweets at the top, instead of just the most recent ones.What appears at the topis now determined using a variety of signals, taking into accountthings like thetweets you interact with, the topics youre interested in, and the activity of people who are similar to you, among other things.This is a big change for a network thats historically been focused on being a real-time feed of information, but not one thats all that surprising or unexpected. The company had been discussing the possibility of an algorithmic timeline for years.However, there was some concern that many of Twitters older users would rebel against having their timeline configured for them in this way  and that they would quickly opt-out of the new experience. There was even a hashtag of backlash related to this  #RIPTwitter.Twitter made it easy for those not on board with this change to turn it off for themselves, though. In the apps Settings, a section called Timeline offers an option to uncheck the box called Show me the best Tweets first. Once disabled, the timeline will appear as it always did.Of course, until the new timeline remains in place for a long enough period for users to make adecision about whether or not they want to keep it around, we wont know if Twitters early retention and usage data will continueto be as positive as it seems now.Still, Twitter is hardly the only network to realize the importance of making its feed more engaging to its users. While Facebook obviously pioneered this idea with its algorithmically determined News Feed, other social services are also now making this shift. The latest to announce a move away from chronological posts is Facebook-owned Instagram, which only days ago said that it would begin displaying the best posts first.Combined, these shifts represent arealization that real-time content and recency arent necessarily what makes a service compelling to its users. Instead, what users want to see is interesting content that matters to themeven if its a few hours  or even days  old.edit: Post updated to reflect that the timeline rollout has now completed.