Its about to get easier for Twitchscommunity of gamers to stream mobilegamestoday, after BlueStacks, a company that emulates Android games on desktops, added streaming support to its service.Streaming is a serious business  Amazon paid close to $1 billion to acquire Twitch, and the services users watch more than 20 billion minutes of video each month. But, when it comes to mobile, it gets tricky.Currently, Twitch usershave to jump through a lot of hoops to stream mobile games. The setup requirements include wiresanda webcam which can distract from actually playing. Now Twitch users can use BlueStacks to play mobile games on their desktop and then stream the footage with a click. That lets them keep the samesetup that they have for their PC streaming sessions, not smartphone needed.Five-year-old BlueStacks, which has raised $27 million from investors and claims 130 million users, believestheres plenty of synergy between its service and Twitch.BlueStacks users are already playing mobile games likeHearthstone, Castle Clash, Vainglory and others, we just built a bridge between our platforms, CEORosen Sharma said in a statement. This combines the power of two huge user bases.Beyond users, the setup could be a useful option for developers, since it prevents them needed to drop an SDK into their apps, but it is Android-only so any iOS exclusives arent covered.The alternative for hardcore mobile game streamers is to jump ship from Twitch altogether. Thats what some top streamers have done for mobile games, with Y Combinator-backed startup Kamcordnetting gains here.Kamcord is dedicated entirely to mobile. For iOS users the setup requires cables and dedicated software, but Kamcords Android app got an updatelast year that enables users to stream right from their device. That ease of use has helped the company lure big streaming names, Clash Of Clans specialist Chief Pat is one such example. He has 1.7 million subscribers to his YouTube channel and uses Kamcord for mobile. Hes one of the platforms biggest names, with more than 47,000 followers, but that in itself demonstrates the challenge that Kamcord and others face  Twitch and YouTube are just so much bigger.Those wanting to actually play on their phone may pick Kamcord over Twitch, even with this BlueStacks integration in place, particular now that it is exploring ways to help its broadcasters make money. Theres also an argument that Twitchs community slants towards console and PCgames, with mobile and casual gamesnot takenas seriously.Either way,todays news is one waythat mobile gap is being closed. Although this is not a partnership, BlueStacks has simply added third party support, theresno doubt Twitch itselfhas further plans in the not too distant future.Updated to clarify that this is not an official Twitch partnership