Yetmore changes afoot for Twitter as the social network continues its big turnaround effort. A day after the social network announced a large round of layoffs under itsnew CEO Jack Dorsey, ithas now appointed a new executive chairman: Omid Kordestani,poaching him from Google, where was thecompanys chief business officer.Kordestani is a long time Googler who had been the chief business officer at Google for just over a year, taking over from Nikesh Arora after the latter execleft for Softbank. More recently, however, it looks like hetook a step back from having a central role at the company. When Google made itsAlphabet splitthis past summer, his chief business officer role was eliminated and he quietlybecame anadvisor to Alphabet and Google without a specific title.This means that its unlikely for Google to announce a replacement for Kordestani. Google declined to comment on whether it would be replacing Kordestani in any way.Kordestanisappointment to the chairmans role at Twitter is symbolic. Kordestanihad been at Google since 1999  employee number 11 apparently  and is credited with being at the helm of the companys first revenue-generating activities and asthe person to have broughtthe company into profit for the first time.And heres an interesting twist:as speculation was ramping up in the last couple of monthsaround who would become Twitters head honcho, wed heard that Twitter had whittled the list down to two: Dorsey andsomeone at Google. Its a very interestingcoincidence that longtime Googler Kordestani today is picking up the chairmans role.Predictably, the news was broken by Jack on Twitter: Today we're appointing @OmidKordestani to the Twitter Board of Directors to serve as our Executive Chairman! Jack (@jack) October 14, 2015Kordestani, who as of the time of writing had tweeted all of11 times since his account was startedin 2012, noted: Excited to work with @jack, the Twitter Board, @adambain, @anthonynoto and the rest of the team to grow @twitters impact and business.As someone who held both executive sales as well as CEO advisory roles at the search giant, Kordestaniwill be bringing some strong commercial and business chops to Twitter at a crucial time for the company.Google also underscored that idea in its official statement about Omid leaving the company.Were excited for Omid and very happy for Twitter. Omid was instrumental in establishing Googles business and helped us develop really close, longstanding partnerships across the industry, a spokesperson said. We wish him every success in the years ahead.Twittersstock and business has been on a roller coaster since going public last year. The turmoil and lack of growth prompted the resignation of Dick Costolo as CEO, along with many other executive departures. Some havespeculated that Kordestanis now-former employer might buy it, and others more generally have questionedthedirection of the company. Now is the time for Twitterto double down to drive more growth and show the market that it is notjust a niche social network but a large media business.The news brings to a conclusion one detail hanging over from last weeks CEO announcement: Twitter had said that with Dorseys permanent ascension to the CEO role, it would be seeking a new chairman, a role Dorsey had occupied in a non-executive capacity while also running Square (which he continues to do at present).Twitters stock, which got a bump on yesterdays news, is up again slightly in trading this morning.