After four months ofrunning under Jack Dorseyinterim chief executive, today Twitter finally named himas its permanent leader. The man who helped co-found Twitterin 2006is now itsfull-time CEO again.In addition to the new permanent role for Dorsey, Adam Bain is becoming COO  Bain used to handle revenue and partnerships at Twitter and was another CEO candidate. Dorsey also announced that a new board is in the works. The company already announced that Dick Costolo stepped down from the board. Dorsey will continue to serve as a board member but no longer as chairman.There are currently no plans to provide Mr. Dorsey with direct compensation for his role as Chief Executive Officer, Twitter writes in the SEC document announcing the changes.In an investor call, Twitter executives announced the changes and answered questions. Its our goal to exceed the expectations the world has for us, Dorsey said. Ill do whatever it takes.Ive worked in partnership with Jack since I joined Twitter in 2010, Bain said. He also said that hes met with Dorsey over the years to talk about business, product and overall strategy. He also commented on the last four months as Dorsey has been temporary CEO for quite a while now.Hes got the senior staff working better than ever, he said. Hes also led the team for a product re-envisioning and product roadmap for 2016. Naturally, the conversation shifted toward this mysterious product roadmap.When asked about it, Dorsey alluded to project lightning, Twitters plan to show relevant live content to casual users.Weve been reviewing our roadmap to make sure that we make Twitter easier to everyone around the world, he said. Theres a lot of initiatives aimed at making sure that people can immediately get value out of Twitter.At the same time, Dorsey reassured existing Twitter users, saying that the company is also building new tools to let power users do more things. Weve been playing with [Lightning] internally for quite some time and it feels amazing, Dorsey said.Dorseyisjuggling the job with a couple of other roles. In addition to already beingthe social networks chairman of the board, he is also the CEO of Square, a payment processing company that he co-founded in 2009and is reportedly slated for a public offering sometime this year. Insiders at Square have been quietly assuring everyone that Dorsey plans to stick around as CEO.When it comes to splitting his time between Square, Dorsey dodged the question during the investor call.After a Re/code article was published citing sources saying that Dorseys new permanent job was imminent, Twitters stock popped a few percentage points followed by a sharp decline and another rise.Throughout his interim CEO period, Dorsey has remained committed to leading Square, as well. But the fact that Dorsey was already running anothercompany when he took over as interim CEO of Twitter from Dick Costolomay have beenone of the sticking points when considering him for the job long-term: Chris Sacca, a vocal Twitter investor, claimsthat a Twitter board member was one of the people who took issue with Dorsey doingboth jobs simultaneously.Some may havebelievedthat the CEO role wouldalways go toDorsey, but more widely themove brings to an endone of the more-speculated leadership vacancies in the tech industry. Other names that we had heardfloated for the job includedinsiders Adam Bain (head of revenue and partnerships and now COO) and CFO Anthony Noto; Jeff Weiner from LinkedIn; Bradley Horowtiz from Google and Padmasree Warrior.We may now have a name to engrave on the back of thechair at the top of the table, but it doesnt make that seat any less hot.Twitters stockhas been on a roller coaster, with the company weathering questionsabout its user growth and engagement, leadership changes, and more existentially what it is as a product. Thats led many to debate whetherthe company, with its stock in a dip, would simply get snapped up by a bigger fishlike Google.In that regard, you can see howsomeone leading Twitterwho has been connected to it and its bigger visionfrom the start could make a lot of sense. Now the question will be how Dorsey implements that legacy advantage.Heres Dorseys statement announcing the changes: Hello! We have some news to share!We are naming @adambain COO of Twitter, we're working to change the composition of our Board, and I will serve as CEO of Twitter and Square!I've been CEO of both companies for over 3 months now. I have the smartest, strongest, and most determined leaders in the world on my teams.My focus is to build teams that move fast, and learn faster. In the past 3 months we have increased our speed and urgency at both companies.A few things about each company, and their impact in the world. What we stand for gives us purpose, and that purpose dictates our job ahead.Square stands for economic empowerment. We stand for financial systems that serve instead of rule. We stand for leveling the playing field.Square is the most powerful set of tools to start, run & grow a business. Download Square, start selling. Download Square, get cash to grow.Twitter stands for freedom of expression. We stand for speaking truth to power. And we stand for empowering dialogue.Twitter is the most powerful communications tool of our time. It shows everything the world is saying rn10-15 minutes before anything else.Both companies have strong businesses and are well positioned to grow their impact in the world. I will do whatever it takes to ensure that.We're working hard at Twitter to focus our roadmap on a few things we can make really great. And we're strengthening our team along the way.Our work forward is to make Twitter easy to understand by anyone in the world, and give more utility to the people who love to use it daily!That's all for now. We'll have a bit more to say on the Twitter investor call today at 5:30a Pacific (see @twitterIR for all the details). Dick Costolos statement:1/ delighted for @jack and the team and excited for the future of Twitter.   twitter.com/plscurrie/stat2/ @jack is a calm and thoughtful leader. He is bold, forthright, decisive, and the team loves working with him.   twitter.com/jack/status/653/ as I step off the board, two reminders:  those banging pots and pans outside Twitter know the least about what's going on inside Twitter4/ and @Twitter, there is only one narrative that matters and it's the one you'll create for the world.5/ 

(Inside reference for the @twitter folks) http://t.co/PNjxvANgkPAdam Bains statement:Im thrilled @jack is now Twitter's permanent CEO, and honored to serve as COO. No one has thought more about @twitter than him..@jack has the insight as well as the moral authority as a founder to push teams to make big, bold changes to @twitter.Our teams are energized by @jack and our advertisers & partners love interacting with him.Expanding my role is only possible because of our amazing sales & business leadership and teams. They are the best in the business.