After years of user-growth struggles, Twitter just announced that its CEO Dick Costolo has chosen tostep downJuly 1, though hell remain on the board. Twitter co-founder and Square CEO Jack Dorsey will be the interim CEO. A conference call with investors has been set for 2:15 p.m. PST today to discuss the situation.Dick Costolo to step down as CEO, will remain on Board, and Jack Dorsey appointed Interim CEO, effective July 1 TwitterIR (@TwitterIR) June 11, 2015Conference call to discuss CEO announcement to be held at 2:15 pm PT. Visit @TwitterIR page for webcast link: http://t.co/Nud3F9IgDM TwitterIR (@TwitterIR) June 11, 2015The stock market initially responded favorably to the change, with Twitters share price up 7 percentin after-hours trading, but it now declined to just 3 percent up. Thats after itsstock plummeted 18 percentsix weeks ago following an earnings miss in Q1. User growth was up just 4.86 percent since the previous quarter to bring Twitter to 302 million users.[Update: On the conference call, Costolo saidhe initiated internal conversations about leaving at the end of last year, and that following discussions in February and his decision to step down, Twitter decided to begin the CEO search. Costolo said he chose to leave now because he thought staying on through the CEO search would cause scrutiny to intensify. During the Q&A, Twitter execs said that since Costolo voluntarily stepped down, there will be no severance package.And on the topic of whether Twitter would consider being acquired, an exec said it wouldnt rule that out, but that we see no reason why we cant [succeed] as an independent company. However, legally it cant rule out acquisition offers and must review them, so thats not really news.]Costolo, a former standup comedian, sent a tongue in cheektweetWelcome back, Jack. Dorsey, meanwhile,tweetedCalling my parents. Twitter hired notorious crisis PR management firm Sard Verbinnento handle the transition.Welcome back, @jack !! https://t.co/3papmyUKg0 dick costolo (@dickc) June 11, 2015Dorsey will continue to be Squares CEO, but will fill in for Costolo until Twitter finds a replacement. Dorsey was previously Twitters CEO before being forced out and replaced by co-founder Ev Williams in 2008. Dorsey became Twitters executive chairman in 2011 when Costolo became CEO.The CEO search committee is being chaired by the Twitter Boards Lead Independent Director, Peter Currie, and includes early investor Peter Fenton and Williams. Earlier this year, there was speculation that Twitters head of revenue and partnerships, Adam Bain, would take over if Costolo left the position. Others believe CFO Anthony Noto might make a good big bird.In a statement to investors(in its entirety below), Costolo said:I am tremendously proud of the Twitter team and all that the team has accomplished together during my six years with the Company. We have great leaders who work well together and a clear strategy that informs our objectives and priorities. There is no one better than Jack Dorsey to lead Twitter during this transition. He has a profound understanding of the product and Twitters mission in the world as well as a great relationship with Twitters leadership team. I am deeply appreciative of the confidence the Board, the management team and the employees have placed in me over the years, and I look forward to supporting Twitter however I can going forward.Pressure on Twitter to get its product and leadership straightened out has intensified lately. That culminated last week in an 8,000 word essay by Chris Sacca, one of Twitters biggest investors, which detailed potential improvements that could boost growth and recover users who ditched the service due to poor onboarding.Costolo will be remembered for many things, including a wildly successful time for Twitters monetization. However, last-quarter performance doesnt a future cashflow make. But unable to ensure user growth, investors worried about its long-term potential to offer the scale advertisers want.Product innovation was considered painfully slow until Costolo recently promoted Kevin Weil to SVP of Product. Hes helped build fixes for some of the companysbiggest problems, including an easier onboarding flow and Highlights, which shows the best tweets you missed. But those changes could take time to produce real growth improvements.Todays announcement may have materialized recently, considering two weeks ago at the Code conference, when asked if he was worried about keeping his job, Costolo said I dont worry about that at all. The board and I are completely in sync. Believe me, I dont worry about that at all. That was a sly way to word it, because he knew he planned to step down.Internally, sources say many employees loved Costolo. He brought order to Twitter when it was still in its chaotic adolescence, and turned it into a serious business. Whoever comes next will have to transition Twitter from something for news junkies and public figures to a service the average person can love. At its best, Twitter can make anyone as smart as everyone, and that shouldnt be a niche product.You can see the full statement to investors here: