Twitters CEO Jack Dorsey todayannounced a new CMO for the company Leslie Berland, who joins from American Express. The confirmation comes two days after her name first came up in connection withthe role, amid a number of other big executive changes at the company.Matching some of the current internal turmoil at the company, Twitter has been having a lot of problems in the public markets, with its stock trading at one of its lowest points in 52 weeks (it hit its 52-week low last week after somesystem outages). Itsshare priceis still settling on the news:at one point in pre-market trading it was up over 2% to $17.40. Butit seemed to be short-lived. As of our latest check,it has dropped a couple of percentage points againto below $17.Berland herself also confirmed the news  on Twitter of course  and Twitter has provided us with the following statement from her:Twitter is a service like no other. It has and continues to change the world, shaping how we communicate and connect, how were entertained, informed and inspired. It represents everything thats relevant at each and every moment  to me, theres nothing more powerful. Im thrilled to have the opportunity to work with Jack and the Twitter teams to bring the magic of Twitter to life, broaden its reach, and deepen its impact as the company enters this incredibly exciting new chapter.Before Berlands appointment, the marketing was being managed by the companys CFO, Anthony Noto.Berland most recently had been EVP,Global Advertising, Marketing and Digital Partnerships at AmEx, which she first joined in 2005. Part of her role was to build bridges between the old schoolfinancial services company and Silicon Valley, such as in this deal with Stripeto power a newdigital wallet.Her experience at AmEx is an interesting addition to Twitter. She brings inroads and connections into thefinancial space, which could possibly give some much-needed oxygen to Twitters own ambitions inpayments (an area that seemed like a big interest for the company but has not really gone anywhere very fast).She also comes with a network of marketing heads at big businesses and brands by virtue of AmExsmany connections through to those businesses for paymentservices. While one obvious area where this could be leveraged is in advertising and building new kinds of services and experiences for different brands to interface with Twitters audience, its also interesting to ponder how and if this could be built up for Twitters other ambitions to do more in B2B services.Twitter has some 300 million users today, so its not exactly a minnow. But as it tries to grow its advertising-based business, brands and others will demand bigger audiences and more engagement from those who do use it. So the question now is whether Twitter will be able to deliver.The CMOs role in helping to shape Twitters response to this challenge  both by partnering with others for new initiatives but also in coming up with the best way to present Twitter to the world  will be crucial, and quite possibly thankless.Updated with share price, other details.