When Mark S. Luckie joined Twitter in 2012, he felt excited by the opportunity to explore the intersection of technology and journalism. Before joining Twitter, Luckie spent his entire career as a traditional journalist, with his last position as national innovations editor at The Washington Post.What appealed to me about Twitter was that its not just focused on one organization, which gave mea chance to influence many organizations, whether directly or indirectly, Luckie told TechCrunch. I was pushing the envelope and seeing what were the bigger and better things Twitter could create, and what were the more interesting ways to tell stories.Luckie spent three years at Twitter as manager of journalism and media, where he helped journalists use Twitter andhelp them better understand how to use itfor sourcing. As Twitters platform evolved, so did Luckies role. It became more of a product management role, where Luckie was tasked with overseeing the building tools and features for Twitter products like TweetDeck, Vine and Periscope that could be helpful to journalists and news organizations.When I asked Luckie about why he eventually left, he cited two main reasons:The first was, I saw a lack of diversity and the companys lack of outreach to black users who are some of the most active users on the platform, Luckie said. They make up a huge part of Twitters base and I thought to myself that I could be using some of my skills to go beyond newsrooms, and move towards advocating for social justice and bringing to light issues that black people are discussing on the platform.The reason I finally left was just because twitter has evolved. It has become very horizontal in nature with a lot of middle managers, and theres not a lot of room for growth, so if I wanted to move up in the company, I would have to move to another team. I just didnt really have a lot of options there.After he left, Luckie was able to dedicate more time to his second book, Do U., a novel about the lives of three studentsat a historically black college. The novel, whichtouches on sexuality, individuality and repression, was part of Luckies move to becoming more involved with social issues around black people, and spreading the word on those issues. The book came outthis past September, and now Luckie is on to his next project: Today in Black Twitter, an online digest featuring the most talked-about news and stories on Black Twitter.The idea for Today in #BlackTwitter, which officially launched in October, came from something called BlackWeek, which was Twitter employee resource group Blackbirds take on the companys quarterly Hack Week, Luckie said.We were trying to come up with ideas of how to advocate for the black community through Twitters technology, Luckie said. During that conversation, Luckie and other Blackbirds membersdiscussed how there are algorithms within Twitters API that could help them surface exactly who Black Twitter is and what theyre talking about, Luckie said. And after I put out the book, I thought, hey, I could actually do this and I think itd be amazing.All of the data and content Luckie incorporates into Today in #BlackTwitter comes from Twitters public API.The most interesting thing about it (TiBT) is its based on public tool, Luckie said. Anybody couldve created this, but nobody has used it in this way up until now, and I think because, quite frankly, because no one cared to do it in that way. So [the public API] really provided an opportunity  a unique space to take Twitters technology and move it into some place different that the company wasnt really using it for.Luckie, who spends about two hours a day curating TiBT, created a dashboard for himself that shows the top handles, links and hashtags that people are tweeting within Black Twitter. Building that, Luckie said, was the hardest part. Now, its just a matter of him using his journalism skills to figure out what stories are being talked about, and then putting them on Medium.Yesterdaysdigest, for example, touched on Jamar Clark, a 24-year-old shot by Minneapolis police while he was allegedly handcuffed, Gawkers history with women, and Badlands. So far, the feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, Luckie said. Down the road, he envisions TiBT becoming its own site and bringing on board a couple of people to help curate more content on the site.So, who makes up Black Twitter?Even though Luckie is black, is on Twitter, and used to work at Twitter, he said he doesnt necessarily consider himself part of Black Twitter. Thats because most of the content he tweets isnt related to the issues that Black Twitter is talking about. He also told me that, based on his data, I am also not part of Black Twitter, even though Im black anduse Twitter.You cant say its black people on Twitter because not every black person is tweeting about Black Twitter topics, Luckie said. So, the actual definition for Black Twitter is a little bit nebulous. Basically, its a network of people that are discussing African-American-related issues, both newsy and fun, and it really sort of runs the gamut depending on the day.There are almost 200 people  some with thousands of followers and some with just a couple of hundred  on Luckies base list. But Luckie said hell likely never share who is on the list.The reason why I wont share is because these people may not identify themselves as part of Black Twitter and I even find Black Twitter putting that label on people, but I dont feel necessarily comfortable with it, Luckie said. The plain and simple truth of it is it does exist and it is worth identifying these conversations because they are heavily influential.