Twitter is currently holding a post-earnings Q&A on Periscope. The guest? CFO Anthony Noto. The company took a bit of a nosedive after its Q3 earnings at the end of last month, so folks have questions. While its normal for companies to have follow-up discussions with analysts, this format is new for Twitter. Addthat its being streamed on Periscope and there you have it  a very valiant attempt to be more transparent to users and, more importantly, investors.A quick note before we begin our post-earnings Q&A with @anthonynoto $TWTR #TWTR pic.twitter.com/U1tjJAxepX TwitterIR (@TwitterIR) November 3, 2015You can tune in on Periscope here:LIVE on #Periscope: Q3'15 Post-Earnings CFO Interview https://t.co/Zvtk3fH2kC TwitterIR (@TwitterIR) November 3, 2015I dig the FAQ format here, but whether investors will hear what they want to hear? Thats a whole different question.In regards to monthly active users, the all-important topic, Anthony Noto discussed Twitters hopes of last year that it could double its growth (which hasnt happened). Noto pointed to recent changes in the company, including Dorseys return as CEO and product roadmap changes, saying: Were not as far along as we would have hoped. He went on to discuss how important Twitters content is, content that others would love to have. He explained kicking up growth as unlocking the services potential with user penetration.When asked by Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo analyst, when we should expect an update on the success of Moments, Noto said didnt say anything different than whats already been said. Its only been out for a few weeks, so thats fair. Were going to hear this question from investors and pundits over and over again though. Noto says that the data is helping the company drive better content to people within the product. Were doing exactly what we wanted to do.Noto said Moments helps to increase favorites so even Twitters CFO hasnt gotten used to the latest change on the platform.One interesting biton ad-blockers, which sometimes block content such as promoted tweets, Noto said that theres no impact for Twitter.Well continue to follow the stream to see if anything interesting is discussed and will let you know what we hear.