Many in Silicon Valley may be worrying more and more about how to transform their startup stakes into cold, hard cash. But thats not stopping institutional investors from writing out some very big checks to venture capital firms.Somewhat astonishingly, U.S. firms just closed on more capital commitments than they have since the second quarter of 2006, according to new data from the National Venture Capital Association and Thomson Reuters. In hard numbers, 57 U.S. firms raised $12 billion in the first quarter, a 59 percent jump indollar commitments overthe first quarter of 2015.Institutional investors arent necessarily spreading the wealth, with thenumber of funds raised down 17 percent from this time last year.Indeed, as you can see from this downloadable fund list, roughly halfthe new capital commitments in the first quarter were locked upby just fourfirms: Founders Fund, which announceda new $1.3 billion fund; Norwest Venture Partners, which closed on $1.2 billion; Accel Partners, which raised $2 billion across two funds; and Lightspeed Venture Partners, which sealed uptwo funds totaling $1.2 billion.Close behind them, by the way, were General Catalyst Partners, Battery Ventures, and Index Ventures, which raised $845 million, $950 million, and $550 million, respectively.If youre confused about whats happeningparticularly given the dearth of IPOs weve seen, along with themiddling performance of the tech stocks that have gone out in the last couple of years join the club.We have our suspicions, though.One very likely factor is a public market that has done very well in recent years and fattened the bank accounts of institutions like universities and pension funds that invest in venturefirms.When these institutionshave more money, that means they have moreto invest on a percentage basis in VC. In fact, some institutions currently have so much capital to invest that for them to see a meaningful return on an investment, they have to write out larger checks, which is why youre seeing some firms securing such enormous amounts of funding right now.Another factor, presumably: interest rates, which remain low. Though the Fedraised short-term interest rates in December for the first time since the 2008-2009 financial crisis, it ruled against raising them again last month and reportedly wont seriously consider raising them again until June.There are also many more foreign investors looking to park their capital in the U.S., including from China. One source whoattended Founders Funds most recent annual limited partner meeting said he wasapproached by numerousinvestors from China, almost all of whom were either looking for other fund introductions or the directcontact information of certain founders.Some Dealogic data underscores the trend. As of mid-March, Chinese companies had announced 36 purchases of U.S. companies valued at $39 billion, eclipsing 2015s full-year record of $17 billion through 114 deals, as well asthe $14 billion Chinese investors spent onU.S. acquisitions in 2014. (That number includestransactions where Chinese firms took big stakes in U.S. firms, including the5.6 percent stake that Alibaba took in Groupon in February.)Of course, another reason that VCs are likely pulling in so much money right now could owe to the countercyclical nature of venture investing. No doubt many investors think theyre being smart by ploughing money into the startup industry now, presuming a wave of IPOs will take place because of pent-up demand.It makes as much sense as anything, we suppose.As venture capitalist Mike Volpi of Index Ventures notedin February when his firm closed on its newest early-stage fund, downward pressure on private markets is oftenboth good and bad news for investors. While some later-stage companies may get squeezed, history shows itcan be a good time to make new startup bets.Its partofthe natural course of the business were in. So it hurts us, and it creates opportunities.