Uber is continuing its focus on Asia after announcing that it will expand into seven new cities in India, taking it to a total of 18 locations in the country.The U.S. firm recentlyclaimed one million rides per day in Chinafollowing rapid growth, and it is also sweet on India. Ithas hired a president to run its business in India and hasseemingly invested significant sums to grow its visibility and presence in India,now its time to rank its plans up a gear. Uber said that this expansion  which will see it drive intoBhubaneswar, Coimbatore, Indore, Mysore, Nagpur, Surat and Visakhapatnam  is the largest number of new international cities [it]has ever launched together.Now, with 18 cities served, India becomes the companys biggest market based on city coverage, behind only the U.S..This underscores our commitment towards transforming urban mobility across India, Uber added.A leaked letter to investors recently suggested that China will overtake the U.S. as Ubers largest market based on rides handle per day. While the company isnt spilling raw figures for its business in India, it did say that it is seeing unprecedented 40 percent month-on-month growth across the country.Our data already shows that residents and visitors in each of these new cities have been eagerly waiting for Uber for sometime now and we expect to see a similar response here, saidNeeraj Singhal, who leadsexpansion efforts in India.Ola, the SoftBank-backed rival to Uber in India, covers more cities in India  it is targeting 200 cities by the end of the year  but that doesnt necessarily mean Uber is losing the battle. It is still early days for the taxi-hailing industry, whileUber covers the countrys biggest cities where the lions share of the revenue is likely to be.Following this news, it will be interesting to see what other expansions Uber is sitting on in India. The company is apparently raising $1 billion for its business in China, where it plans to expand into 50 new cities. Its plans may not be so aggressive in India, but Uber is clearlyready and willing to push harder.Ubers checkered time in India included the alleged rape of a passenger in New Delhi last year, while it also landed a strategic investment from media firm Times Internet. The U.S. firm has also relaxed its dependency on credit cards with a cash payments trialand the mandatory adoption of a payment wallet, while it introduced a range of India-specific rides including chauffeured hatchbacksand auto rickshaws.