Fresh from raising new funding, Uber China  Ubers dedicated business in the worlds largest country  is embarking on its largest expansion to date which willincrease its coverage to 37 cities, up from22.Uber China has slowly expanded its coverage of China with launches in large cities thus far. In a change of approach, itsaid today that it will launch in 15 new cities in Sichuan, Chinas fourth most populousprovince, before Chinese New Year on February 8.Sichuan, a 485,000 km square region with a cumulative population of over 80 million people, is already a hotspot for the company. Provincial capital Chengdu is Ubers top city worldwide, based on weekly completed trips, and it reachedthe number one spot just nine months after Uber launched there. And theres apparently promise of more:Uber said its volume in second cityMianyang, where it launched in November, is forty-times higher thanChengdu was at that stage of launch. (Uber didnt give raw figures for either city, though.)Now, it is homing in on the region and expanding its coverage into tier-two and tier-three cities inSichuan. Uber told TechCrunch it already soft-launched in five cities, but it is targeting an additional ten in order to fully cover the main cities inSichuan ahead of Chinese New Year, which is the largest annualmigration on the planet as urban-based Chinese return en masse to their hometowns for the holidays.More broadly though, this expansion is a sign of things to come for Uber in China this year.The company declined to disclose specific expansion plans for the year when we asked  citing the need to keep information confidential and away from competitors  but last yearit revealedit would take its coverage tomore than 100 cities in 2015. This move in Sichuan looks like phase one.2015 was Uber Chinas Year of Localizationand 2016 will be our Year of Growth,Zhen Liu, who isUber Chinas Head of Strategy, said in a statement.We have built a strong foundation across the countryand have put in place an excellent local team that will drive our growth in the year ahead our goal is to be in 100 cities across China by the end of the year, Liu added.Reaching100 new cities inside 12 months is a huge task, but even if Uber is able to pull it off, the company will still trail local leader Didi Kuaidi on total national coverage. Didi Kuaidi, which is valued at $16.5 billion versus Uber Chinas $8 billion tag, ispresent in over 360 cities and townsand isreportedly at break-even in more than 100 of them.Thats not quite all from Uber China in Chengdu. The company also said it is opening up ride-stations in well-known landmarks across the city. The idea is to create designated areas where drivers can meet passengers  similar to suggested pickuppoints it is testing in the U.S.  because it can be surprisingly hard to rendezvous, particularly if a passenger is new to, or visiting, the city andnot familiar with its road system.The stations have been added to Baidu maps, Chinas top mapping app, run by Uber investor Baidu.Oh, and they are Panda-themed too 