Uber saysit is on course to topplebitter rival Didi Chuxing andbecome Chinas most popular ride-on demand service withina year.Thats according toZhen Liu, SVP of Strategy at Uber China who oversees the companys businessin the country. Duringan interview atConvergein Hong Kong, Liu statedher firm would overtake Didi on overall marketshare withinthe next twelve months.Liu claimed Uber isgrowing rapidlyin China, to the point that it is only a matter of timebefore it snatches the top spot.Last year, we were only operating in eight cities and we were [at] about one percent marketshare. A year later, we are about one-third of the marketshare and operating in over sixty cities across China, shesaid.Uber's China head predicts the ride sharing company will surpass rival DiDi "next year" #ConvergeAsia @jasonanders pic.twitter.com/pZ6LwZTv00 Rebecca Blumenstein (@RBlumenstein) June 3, 2016A change at the top would represent a remarkable achievement for Uber. The firm has only been in China for just over two years and, as its own CEO has acknowledged, it has poured billions into a fierce rivalry with four-year-old Didi  which itself was created via a mergerwhen Chinas top two ride-sharing firms abandoned an expensive subsidies battle to join forces in 2015.Generally speaking it is hard to find accurate data that measures how Uber and Didi, which is present in over 400 cities, are performing in China, although most reports and watchers peg Didi as being a large margin ahead. Nevertheless, China remains the most important market for Uber worldwide, Liu said.Six of Ubers top ten busiest cities are located in China, and sheexpects that China will continue to account for even more of its top locations. Uber China earlier this year raised more than $1 billion at a $7 billion valuation, and Liu said that the company is actively raising funding once again. From her comments and part history, it seemslikely thatsome of that roundwill come fromparent company, Uber Inc, which justcloseda$3.5 billion investment from Saudi Arabias Public Investment Fund (PIF). Although Liu did not explicitly say that.Didi, by contrast, is backed by local Chinese giants including Alibaba and Tencent, while Apple recently joined the party with a landmark $1 billion investment in the firmlast month. Interviewed separately atConverge,DidisSenior Director for International Strategy,Li Zijian,was more diplomatic on the rivalry, pointing out that his firm isnt concerned withothers.Theres lot of competition in the ride-sharing market, thats true [but] what we are really doing is to focus on whats in front of us, Li said. Its like running a hurdles race, if you want to win a hurdles race the only thing you need to focus on is whats in front of you.You dont really look over your shoulder to see what other athletes are doing.