Uber may be on the wrong end of a 95 percent-plus marketshare that its chief rival Didi Kuaidi enjoys in China, but the country is on track to overtake the U.S. and become the U.S. firms largest market before the end of 2015. Thats according to communications leaked to the Financial Times (pay wall).In aletter reportedly send to investors ahead of a planned funding raise of $1 billion for China  to help Uber expand into 50 new cities there; it currently operates in 11 Uber CEO Travis Kalanick provided surprising nuggets ofhow the U.S. firm is performing in China. Kalanicks information is at odds with how Uber is perceived in the country, where it is seen as an outsider struggling for marketshare.Kalanick claimed that Uberis logging nearly one million trips per day across China. If true there have been suggestions that its generous subsidies are being abused by drivers who logfake rides  thats quite astonishing since Uber hit one million daily rides worldwide as recently as December 2014. (In addition:a New York Times story earlier this week pegged its rides in China at 100,000 per day  Didi Dache was logging five million per day a yearbefore its merger.)The Uber CEO also said that four of the companys largest cities worldwide, based on rides per day, are in China. Thats despite Uber China  the companys business in the country  being far younger than its U.S.-based operations.Guangzhou, Hangzhou and Chengdu have all surpassed New York as ourthree largest cities on a trips basis. Impressively, Hangzhou and Chengduhave accomplished this feat in just 9 months, compared to New York whichis 4 years old.Hangzhou is now over 400x the size that New York was at its same age.200,000 Hangzhou residents are becoming new UberChina riders everyweek!That staggering growth is shown in the chart below:Other tidbits Kalanick revealed included:Kalanick, who revealedin the letter that he is personally overseeing the business in China, said he believes that Uber can buck the trend of Western companies struggling in China.Simply stated, China is the #1 priority for Ubers global team, he wrote. [The]combination of operational excellence and a superior product is allowing us togrow significantly faster than our competition.On that note, Kalanick had some choice words for one competitor  presumably Didi Kuaidi  which he said cloned our core productline and is attempting to transition from its legacy taxi business to a similar P2Pmodel.Didi Kuaidi did indeed launch a peer-to-peer service this month, but Uber claims that it leads the P2P taxi market in China with a near 50 percent share and a presence that is substantially larger in many of our key cities.Kalanick also blasted Didi Kuaidis backers which he claimed had made unfair moves to shut Uber out. Tencent blocked Ubers official accounts from its WeChat service  Chinas largest messaging app service  while the Uber supremo said drivers had been paid to protest against Uber, and forged messages weresent to existing Uber drivers in some cities.The letter from Kalanick is, of course, written bya CEO to a list of potential investors and therefore is always goingto be bullish. But it provides a very different take on Ubers situation in China. The U.S. firms big window of opportunity appears to be ashift from traditional taxis on-demand to a peer-to-peer model across China.That change hasnt sat well with many regulators in the country, Asia and other parts of the world to date. Though Kalanick said he has spent time with high level government officials throughout China, regulators in some Chinese cities have raidedUber offices and cracked down onits competitors for offering P2P services. Yet, if that model canachieve legitimacy among Chinese authorities, then Ubers prospects of success in the country will be a lot rosier.An extra $1 billion in the coffers will help the cause too.Uber has raised some $5 billion from investors to date. One existing shareholder is Chinese search giant Baidu, which made a strategic investment in the company in December, and is using its payment wallet and popular maps service to help raise Ubers visibility in China. Uberwas said to be raising $1.5 billion back in May, it isnt clear whether this China raise represents a chunk of that figure or whether it is altogether separate.