The U.K. governments Department for Transport (DfT) has released updated statisticson the number of taxis and private hire vehicles operating in England  which shows a marked increased in the latter since 2013.In case you were wondering, on-demand car-hailingservice Uber soft-launched in London in summer 2012. Coincidence? Id wager not.The biggest leap in the figures is a 25.9 per cent hikein private hire vehicles (PHVs) operating in London between 2013 and 2015. Over the same period London taxi numbers increased by just 1.5 per cent:According to the DfT data, there were 62,754 PHVs operating in London, as of the end of March this year, up from 49,854 in 2013  so close to anadditional 13,000 PHVson Londons roads. While the number of black cabs in London barely increased, to22,500.The TfD data also shows the number of licensed PHVoperators shrinking, including within London  where the report notes a decline of 4.8 per cent to 3,000operators. Which suggestsanUber-shaped impacton the PHV competition.An Uberspokesman toldTechCrunch it now has more than 15,000 partners (aka driverswho sell ride-sharing services via itsplatform) on its booksin London. While,last October,CEOTravis Kalanick was reportedsayingthe company expects to ramp up driver numbers in London to 42,000 by March 2016. He also claimed Uberhad some 500,000 users in the Capitalat that point.Covering his comments atthe time, theIBT also reported him saying:In last month we have had 7,000 active drivers on the roads in London.For each of those cars on the road, you are taking seven and half cars off the road.[emphasis mine]Its not the first time Uber has made specious claims about how its ride-sharing service reduces traffic. Kalanicks maths here is particularly disingenuous  given the 7.5:1 ratio (presumably) assumes all Ubers are carpooling with full occupancy. And that if the people in the Ubers werent Ubering they would all be driving around in their own cars instead.Which, in a citylike London  with a comprehensivepublic transport infrastructure, and a congestion charging zone incentral London thats designed to disincentivize people fromdriving is of course complete nonsense.A DfT report on U.K. vehicle licensing notes that, as of the end of 2013, London had by far the lowest rate of per head car ownership in the U.K., with 307 cars owned per 1,000 people. While Transport for London (TfL)data for 2011/12 identified2.6 million cars registered in London  versus an urbanpopulation of between 8.2 and 8.3 million at that time.The TfL report noted that 54 per cent of London households had at least one car at that time  ergo close to a majority of homes had no car. Going a bit further back, the 2011 U.K. Censusrecorded an increase in the proportion of car-free households in Greater London  with car-less homes rising from 38 per cent to 42 per cent between 2001 and 2011.All of which is to say that increasing numbersof Londoners dont own a car, so are unlikely to be choosing between driving themselves or letting Uber drive them around. More likely they are choosing between getting the bus/train/cycling or gettingan Uber. (Yes there are also car sharing schemes like Zipcar in London but its far quicker and easier to take public transport for most trips than booking, using and parking a shared car  and human transportation modus operandigenerally followsthe path of least resistance.)So Kalanicks claim that Uberreduces roadtraffic in London when DfT data shows big jumps in the number ofPHVs on Londons roads  rings pretty hollow, to say the least.(Related: the city of New York is conducting a study intoUbers impact on congestion.)Nor is Ubermerely supplantingexisting London taxis, given that taxi numbers also increased (albeit marginally) over the period. You can say taxi numbers might have grown a little more if there was no Uber-shaped competition, but theres no reason to think they would have swelled by a quarter, given the cost of taking a cab ishigher than the cost of getting an Uber.Whatseems closer to the truthis the (VC-subsidized) cost of taking an Uber is encouraging (some) Londonersto step away frompublic transport and get into one of its partners cars  a car which is only on the road in order to pick up paying passengers.If there was no Uber, that Uber partner would, in all probability, be doing something other than spending large amounts of their time driving around the city. While the cost-conscious Uber user would probablybe taking public transport to get to where they need to go, rather than shelling out for a black cab ride. Remember:public transport in London is both plentiful and generallycheaper than getting any kind of taxi.Soif thenumber of fossil fuel burning vehicles for hire on Londons streets is increasing  and DfT data appears to suggestit is (unless theres been a massively underreported influx of all-electric Teslas for private hire) that growth mustbe havinga negative impact on Londonsair quality. And a portion of that foul air has to beassociated with Uber.Asked forcomment on theimpact of its business on air quality in dense urban centers like London, an Uber spokesman claimed that themajority of London partner-driverson itsplatform drive hybrid cars.Thesecars are better for the environment than many other options. Furthermore Ubers price point means that many riders are now leaving their private cars at home and using Uber. This reduces the number of cars on the road which helps to ease congestion and is better for the environment, he added, echoing Kalanicks comments from last year.Theres no doubtLondon has a seriousproblem when it comes to air quality.Last year the European Commission startedlegal actionagainst the U.K. for breachingpollution targets, including in Greater London  specifically associated with nitrogen dioxide (a toxicbyproduct of car engine and exhaust fumes combining with oxygen).Londonis reported to havethe highest levels of NO2 of any European capital city. Londonscity authority website itself notes that most air pollution in London is caused by road transport and domestic, along with commercial heating systems, and recommends that businesses encourage employees to use public transport, walk or cycle to work.City-dwellers are particularly exposed, as most nitrogen dioxide originates in traffic fumes, the EC noted in a press release detailingits legal action against the U.K., adding: Nitrogen dioxide is the main pre-cursor for ground-level ozone causing major respiratory problems and leading to premature death.Astudy, published thisJuly,ofthe health effects of NO2 and particulate matter pollution, commissioned by the Major of London and carried out by Kings College London using 2010 data, reported a higher health impact than previously estimated  including that there wasthe equivalent of 5,900 deaths associated with NO2 long term exposure in 2010.If the huge health costs of traffic fumes in urban centers werent bad enough, the U.K. is facingEC fines of up to 300 million for breaching air quality standards.Whats clear is that increasing the quantityof vehicles on Londons roads is not compatible with meeting Europeanair quality standards  not unless the vehicles in question generatezero emissions.On that front, its interesting to note that Uber has been linkedto aninterestin buying autonomous cars from electric car-maker Tesla in future. WhileTeslas CEO Elon Musk was asked (and declinedto answer) whether his companymight not itself offer ride-sharing services in future.In the meanwhile,Londonerslooking foracleaner alternative to Uber might be interested to hear thatan all-electric Tesla taxi startupsoft-launched in the citylast year. Called Gliide, the zero emission chauffeur service remainsinvite only at this stage.