Uber will acquire assets from Microsoft Bing, including roughly 100 employees focused on the products image collection activities. In short, Uber is absorbing data-collection engineers from Microsoft to bolster its own mapping work.The companies confirmed the transaction with TechCrunch, but each declined to name the terms of the agreement. Microsofthanding Uber part of its operating expenses is minor, given the financial scale of the firms. The technology transfer is far more interesting. Ubers app is essentially a map with add-ons, so that it would want to pick up engineers  currently the hottest Silicon Valley commodity1  isnt surprising. And that Microsoft might want to shed some talent that isnt precisely core to its larger platforms and productivity efforts doesnt shock.Still, Microsoft has been noisy for years about how Bing isnt an asset that it will sell, so to see the firm let go of a small piece is notable. (Update: To answer some questions, Microsoft has been pointed on the issue of Bing searchremainingas part of its family, and not Bing as the diverse asset that it is, doing thesame. The gist is that this sale, so far as I can grok as just one nerd, is that there isnt a change in strategy taking place.)The move also underscores Ubers ambition. A firm doesnt hire 100 specific-focus engineers in a single move if it doesnt have large product aspirations. The new Uber kids are the folks who worked to getimage data into Bing, meaning that the search engines 3D, aerial and street footage is in large part their doing. You can therefore start to presume what Uber has in mind.The companies informed TechCrunch in the wake of the deal that assets will transfer, as well as the workers. The firms both declined to elaborate on what those assets are. We can guess, however.If your work involves image collection, and you are hired away, that some of your work would follow isnt beyond the pale.My guess, therefore, is that Microsoft is selling a chunk of its image collection to Uber, and that it will retain licensingrights thereof. Also I presume that Redmond is selling off part of its bucket of intellectual property to Uber in the deal  if you know more about the terms, shoot me a direct message.The official comments from the firms are of the massaged variety, with Uber saying that its excited about the talent and technology this acquisition brings. Microsoft is similarly banal, saying that it has taken many actions to focus the companys efforts around our core business strategy in the last year.Uber wants to be clear that it wants to be a full-stack operation, while Microsoft wants you to consider its product focus as a weapon. Well see. For now, Uber has new tools, and Microsofts Bing product is slightly lighter in the financial sense.1 Soon, it will be capital. And not of the human variety.