As the U.K.s political parties sweat their policy wonks to come up with voter-friendlymanifestos ahead of the General Election in May, incumbent telcoBT has dropped areminder that broadband upgrades will never be big enough nor fast enough for digitals cutting edge unless politicians find the willpower and public moneyto chuck at future-proofing theproblem.BT has today announcedplans for what its dubbing its ultrafast broadband vision  aka how it plans to upgrade its existing fibre network to increase broadband speeds over the next five to ten years, with deployment due to start in the financial year 2016/17  subject to successful pilots of thenew tech.Its not announcing any new money to fund the upgrade at this point, witha BT spokesman confirming the plans wouldfallwithin the current capex envelope for fibre broadband.Under the telcosplans, faster U.K. broadband speeds would be achieved for a majority of the population by squeezing more megabits out of a fibre-copper mix, allowing BT to focus on upgrading its fibre-to-the-cabinet infrastructure, via a third-way tech  calledG.fast rather than spending the much larger sums involved inexpandingfull fibre-to-the-premises (i.e. where the fibre line is dug in all the way to a customersdoor).BThas previously shown this G.fast fibre-copper mix working from distribution points between the cabinet and the customers premises, but is now sayingitcan achieve faster speeds right from the cabinet  although it still has to conduct large-scale customer trials to prove the deployment in the wild.We know the technology is capable, so its just looking at how we deliver that on a larger scale, thespokesman noted.Headded that the tech also allows for flexibility in deployment  so BT could run fibre far closer to customers in some areas than in others, depending on the various costs/ROI involved.BTis talkingin terms of expecting G.fast to offer initial speeds of a few hundred megabits per second to millions of homes and businesses by 2020. And increasing thereafter to up to 500Mbps for a majority of the U.K. populationwithin adecade. So not exactly a startup-paced revolution. But that would likely require thegovernment to funnel (more) taxpayer money into the mix.Would more public money help accelerate the U.K. getting faster broadband? BTsspokesman vacillated on this questionbut finally said the upgrade timeframe would likely remain as is, given how the incumbent structures its fibredeployments, but did suggest thattaxpayer cash might be a way towiden the scope of thedeployments  to enablemore of the population to gain access to the higher speeds (should they wish to subscribe).[Government money] probably wouldnt mean it would be faster [to deploy G.fast upgrades] as were still rolling our fibre program and as that winds down G.fast will deployment will wind up hence we believe it will stay in broadly the same capex envelope. It might mean the scope of any program could be larger, however but it is a significant engineering task, he said.Taxpayer money has been used to that end  and funneled into BTs coffers  with current-gen U.K. broadband. The company isperhapsenvisaging a repeat of that process, although the spokesman added: The extent to which public funding might come in to play is not something that we have a view on in the current time.Whatever the paceof G.fast deployment,BTs vision/business planlooksset to cap the U.K.s broadband speeds atwell below 1Gbps for a majority ofusers for the next decade and beyond, whileleavingmore remote/less economically attractive areas lagging further still in the speed stakes, as is the case now. Bottom line: the U.K. will have amixed-estate of customer fixed-line connectivitywhichdigitalbusinesses will have to grapple with for the foreseeable future. (Unless 5G speeds into the frame to save all that fibre-line trench digging.)Others are clearly thinking bigger than BT on fixed-line broadband. Makinga series of digital policy recommendationslast year, an advisory group to the U.K. Labour party, called Labour Digital, suggested atarget of nationwide access to 1Gbps broadband in homes, businesses and public buildings, with 10Gbps services for tech clusters, as early as possible in the next parliament. It remains to be seen whether such atarget makes itinto the Labour Party manifesto.Across the U.K. the current average broadband speed is just 23Mbps, according to telco regulator Ofcom. While BTs top-linespeed for its current gen fibre to the cabinet broadband product is 80Mbps, andthe few full fibre to the premises deployments it has rolled out (such as in Milton Keynes) can offer up to 330Mbps.The U.K.s otherfibre broadband network, Virgin Media, covers just over half of U.K. properties  and hasa current headline speed of up to152Mbps.The spectre of up to 1Gbps broadband is also invokedin BTs ultrafast manifesto  a possible future product thats likely to be focused on the SME market, according to the spokesman. But this premium offeringcomeswithout any concrete commitments, pricing or deployment timeframes at this point:[BT]is also planning to develop a premium fibre broadband service for those residential and business customers who want even faster broadband, of up to 1Gbps.Were exploring options for a premium 1Gbps service, the spokesman added. There are various things we can look at. Were looking at deploying fibre all the way to the customers premises, as we currently do with fibre on demand, but were also quite keen to see what speeds G.fast can deliver as it evolves. So were keeping our options open there.All BTsupgrade plans remaindependent on the success of pilots of the G.fast tech  which it will be kicking off this summer,in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, and Gosforth, Newcastle, whereBT will beasking around4,000 homes and businesses to participate in trials. The G.fast broadband standard itselfwasapproved by the ITU justlast month.We are looking to re-use or co-locate with our existing fibre infrastructure where possible, to reduce the need for new kit, said the BT spokesman, discussing the pilots. Were also working to reduce the size of any additional cabinets that might be needed.During the trials we will be testing new micro cabinets that are about the size of a biscuit tin and can be attached to telegraph poles, walls of buildings or placed in footway boxes. Max range 400m, possibly further. Pilots will give us more accurate performance assessments, headded.Yes: the U.K.snext broadband revolution could be acceleratingto your router from out of a biscuit-tin-sized nodeCommenting on the upgrade plans in a statement, BT CEO GavinPatterson added: We believe G.fast is the key to unlocking ultrafast speeds and we are prepared to upgrade large parts of our network should the pilots prove successful. That upgrade will depend however on there continuing to be a stable regulatory environment that supports investment.