Smartphone sales are slowing down, and it looks like Apple might see its first iPhonesales declinein the next quarter. Thatpinch is now being felt by one of Appleskey suppliers. UK companyImagination Technologiesannounced today that it is restructuring its company. It willlay off350 people and shuttersome operations in the process  200 announced today, on top of 150 announced in February. Imaginationlicenses graphics and semiconductor IP to tech companies, counting both Apple and Intel as customers and shareholders (Apple currently holds an 8.4% stake, while it looks like Intel has just under 5%).Imagination saidthat the workforce reductions and closures of some operations will be in what it considers non-core operations. They will not impact its three main businesses graphics and multimedia (Imaginations PowerVR business), processing (its MIPS processor business that it acquired in 2012) and connectivity (its Ensigma low-power communications IP business).This swift and decisive action will put us back on a sound financial footing and will enable us to have the necessary resources to further strengthen our three core businesses, said Andrew Heath, the companys interim CEO. They are unaffected by these cuts.Its not clear where some of Imaginationsnewer initiatives will be left in the wake of this news. The company launched a Kickstarter for a new IoT dev kit in November 2015 partly to test the market waters for such a product. In February  before Imagination began to announce its restructuring news  the company updated Kickstarter supporters that it was in China for tooling and QA testing.The statement to the market today noted that Imaginations System on a Chip (SoC) design business will be refocused and rescaled. Imagination did not spell out exactlywhat other areas are being affected, but other businesses include the companys Flow cloud connectivity and VoIP products, as well as its CaskeiD audio distribution tech.The company  which has seen declines in revenues and a widening operating loss, according to its last earnings report from December  says it wants to cut operating costs by 15 million ($22 million) in the next financialyear, which ends April 2017, implementing cost reductions in the current FY (ending April 2016).Group revenues in the first half of the current fiscal year were 71.1 million, with 62.7 million of that covered by royalty and licensing payments for its technology. Its adjusted operating loss was7.3 millionfor the period, compared to aprofit of 5.0 million the year before.Imagination had previously flagged its financial situation and had said it would seek to sell Pure, its consumer electronics division that makes devices like digital radios, and it also reiterated that plan again today, saying that it has received considerable interest in the unit.Pureitself is estimated to be worth 15 million, on top of the other cost cuts that Imagination is aiming to make.Imagination said it continues to have sufficient cash resources to meet its obligations going forward. The companys shares today are trading up 8.5%, giving it a market cap of $737 million.