Proof, if proof were needed, that democracy is a cat and mouse game of PRthese daysCivil rights campaign organisation, theOpen Rights Group, is running a crowdfunding campaignto try to raise 20,000 to fund a challenge to the U.K. governments own massive PR machine which is in the midst of driving the draft Investigatory Powers bill through Parliament and onto the statute books this year.The draft IPbill, presented toparliamentary inNovember  and now being interrogatedby a joint selectcommittee of MPs and Peers, dueto report next month  is the U.K. governments attempt to update and crystalize the law on surveillance powers inthe post-Snowden era.The billnot only seeks to legitimize mass surveillance activity that has been ongoing in the U.K. for decades, with little or no public acknowledgement of this fact until after the Snowden disclosures  and with activity authorized via obscure legal loopholes such as section 94 of the1984 Telecommunications Act  it also expands the surveillance capabilitiesavailable to the intelligence and security agencies. For examplebyrequiring ISPs to store a list ofall the websites U.K.Internet usershave visited for the past 12 months. So called Internet connection records.This despiteEuropeanjudgesoverturning blanket data retentionpowers, back in 2014, on the grounds that such capabilities aredisproportionate. While,last summerthe U.K. High Court also ruled that the current emergency U.K.surveillance law, DRIPA  pushed through parliament without proper scrutiny, alsoin 2014  is illegal under European Human Rights Law.The Open Rights Group is hoping to be able to runits own,inevitablymore modest, public information campaign aboutthe IP Bill, by turning to Indiegogoto raise 20,000to make ashort film toexplain mass surveillance to the massesand illuminate the implications for Internet users if the bill passes into law. Itsflexible funding campaign is nearing theend, with five days left to run and more than12,500pledged so far.The public have been repeatedly told that if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear. We need to challenge this sweeping statement and show people just what is at stake. We may not have things to hide but we all have things we want to keep private, safe and secure. If this Bill is passed, there can be no guarantee that we can do this, the groupwrites on itscampaign page.A key criticism of the IP Bill has been the truncated timetable afforded to the joint select committee that is hearing views on the proposedlegislation. A member of the committee, the Liberal Democrat Peer Lord Strasburger, characterizedthe two weeks afforded to hear witnesses as ridiculous, adding that the government isturning the process into a rubber stamp.In one witness sessionheld in December before the holiday break, the committee heard conflicting views on the costs of capturing Internet connection records,concernsoverthe implications for encrypted services  including criticism of the billsvague wording and fears over sweepingpowers to sanctionmass hacking of services. So plenty to be concerned about then.The Open Rights Group says it wants to launch its public-facing campaign next month, to coincide with the committees report and put pressure on the MPs and Peers who will be debating, amending and voting on the legislation in the coming months. The governments timetable for passing the legislation is before the end of the year when DRIPA is due to expire.The Government is using fear of terrorism to persuade the public that they should give up their rights. We need to show more members of the public that what the Government is proposing is mass surveillance and it does have serious implications for their privacy and security. We have just a few months to persuade them, the media and our MPs that this draft law needs to be changed before it it passed by parliament, the Open Rights Groupadds.A 1,500 pledge to be the official sponsor of the planned film has been bought by U.K. ISPAndrews and Arnold, which has submitted written evidence to the IP Bill committee and is a long time campaigner against Internet censorship and against earlierattempts to legislate so called Snoopers charters in the U.K.