Making art more accessible to blind and visually impaired people is founder Marc Dillons new mission. After almost a quarter centuryworking in the mobile industry  latterly at alternative mobile OS maker,Jolla, from wherehe finally departed this fall  he says its time to give back.I was looking for something to do post-Jolla, Ive been in mobile for 25 years nearly and I wanted to do something that gives back to people,Dillon tells TechCrunch.The things that came together for me were I wanted to find a place where I could basically find a community that had a need and give back to that, with the experience that I have. And then with the fact that this was an open platform that basically will be free once it gets up and running  that were the things I thought were really amazing about this.The not-for-profit project  called Unseen Art  is launching an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign today, seeking to raise $50,000 to build a software platform where 3D artists can upload creations and those wanting to print the art pieces can freely download them. Idea being that great works of art should be accessible to all, says Dillon, the projectevangelist. The first artwork its aiming to create and make downloadable in 3D is the Mona Lisa.In validating the idea we found a young lady who was born blind, and she is an artist and a musician, and she had heard about the Mona Lisa her whole life and shed never had any kind of experience about what it really means, he says.There are people who have heard about many different pieces of art their whole lives and theyve never had any access to that. So I think that its amazing that an artist thats in London can create a model  in this case its the Mona Lisa is the one were starting with  and then theres a guy in Texas whos printing it out; a blind person or one of the organizations.Its been quite exciting to get involved and see that it actually does touch people. Theyget an emotional response  the art is about an emotional response. You might love it, you might hate it, but it should make you feel something. And weve seen a lot of people feel a lot of different things with this so far, he adds.As chance would have it, another 3D art platform (3DPhotoWorks) with a planto make artworks and photos more accessible to blind people is currently running acrowdfunder on Kickstarter  albeit its looking to raise considerably more money ($500,000), and is not an open source project.One of the biggest differences is that were trying to do this to build a non-commercial platform, says Dillon. The classical artworks of the world are something we believe everybody should have accessibility to and it should be free. So we have to build something in order to do that.The way that we got started here is that one of the guys was at a swim hole and there was a young blind boy who asked his parents for his swimming medal and the boy recognized that it wasnt the first place medal. And he said hey I want the good one; this is not the first place one. One of the guys here thought that it was amazing that two things that looked alike to him the boy could tell the difference between them just by touch, he adds.Why paintings and not sculptures, which are  after all  already 3D, so would be easier to replicate in 3D? Dillon says there have already been some moves to makesculptures accessible to blind people  such as by holding special exhibitions where blind people are invited to don examination gloves and touch the sculptures. But not so much formaking paintingsaccessible.Is a 3D painting still a painting? In the literal sense, clearly not. But theres also evidently going to be something of an interpretation process as3D artists turn 2D artworks into 3D models. Dillonargues this is also another differentiation vs 3DPhotoWorks approach, describing their productas more of a relief style versus the fully 3D models Unseen Art aims to distribute.One of the early validators that we had found was that there needs to be some depth of touch, and there needs to be some limitation to detail  a perspective on the art, or an impression of the art, for people to really understand it. If you took any typical painting, we could use the Mona Lisa again, and you made that whole thing  every bit of detail in there  then people arent really going to get a lot out of it, he says.Artists who want to do this  because its a good cause, rather than because its a commercial thing  weve gotten people that want to put their impression, they can put a different impression, maybe we might even have five different perspectives Or interpretations of a particular piece of art that might give a different perspective. Just like when you or I look at a piece of art we might see different things.As well as opening up artworks to blind and visually impaired people to experience via touch, Dillon reckonsthere could also be potential for the 3D artworks created on the platform to offer sighted peoplea different experience of great artworks.People thathave seen the Mona Lisa are like wow, you would never think you could touch this but in three dimensions  its quite a different experience, he says.Its not the first crowdfunding project Dillon has been involved with. Back at Jolla he launched a successful crowdfunding campaign to build a tablet running the companys alternative Sailfish OS(shipping of this has been delayed vs the original schedule but Jolla started shipping some slates last month, with more due to ship inDecember).Does Dillonstill think Jolla has a chance to make a dent in a mobile market thats dominated by Android in terms of volume, and iOS at the high end? I still believe in the mission. I still think that somebody needs to do this  and I hope theyre successful, he says. Its been a very tough fight. But I believe that its still possible for there to be a third major player in mobile and we have not seen who it is yet.