Its been just under 3 months since Apple debuted Live Photos with the iPhone 6s and, slowly but surely, big third parties are finding ways to integrate them. Tumblr picked them up just days ago and now Live Photos are getting support from the biggest photo sharing beast of them all: Facebook.Starting with an update hitting this morning, Facebook is rolling out the ability to upload and view Live Photos from within their iOS app.One catch: because Live Photos are still fairly new, Facebook isnt pushing support out to everyone at once. While some people will see them start popping up in their feeds as early as this morning, many wont see them until the new year.Uploading a Live Photo is pretty similar to uploading your standard still  in fact, its identical, save for one extra step. While uploading a photo from your camera roll that happens to be Live Photo-enabled, a LIVE box appears in the bottom right; tap that, and itll upload as a Live Photo. Dont tap it, and only the still goes up.Youll have to tap that box manually with each Live Photo, and with good reason: once enabled on your iPhone, Live Photos are created with little to no thought on your part. Its easy to forget the feature is even on. Add in the fact that Live Photos include 1.5 seconds of video and audio from before/after the instant you hit that shutter button, and its easy to imagine a scenario where you unwittingly capture something you maybe dont want to make public. By making it opt-in with each photo, theres less of a chance youll accidentally upload stuff you forgot was even there.Once in the feed, Live Photos will show as static images by default, just as photos always would. In the bottom right of each, however, will be a set of concentric circles  the same icon that Apple uses to indicate the Live Photo toggle within the camera UI (see the top-most right image for an example). Press and hold any photo with these circles, and the Live Photo starts playing. Lift your thumb, and it fades back to its static form.Only iPhone 6s and 6s Plus can capture Live Photos right now  but in the case of Facebook, any device running iOS 9 (so anything as old as the iPhone 4S) will be able to view them.Its easy to write off Live Photos by saying LOL, moving photos with sound. Isnt that called a video?. And thats not wrong! But its not the complete picture, either.When you say Video, most people conjure up an idea of something that considers extra thought, framing, and effort. If a video is 3 seconds long, it feels like an accident. Live Photos are more like a bonus  something created passively, and with no extra effort. You still get that still photo you lined up so carefully but now theres an extra little bit of potential. Most of the time, the Live Photo ends up being silly or blurry but sometimes  just sometimes  they capture something wonderful.