People who dont take Uber frequently take the bus. And those Europeans folks now include some rather high profileinvestors in London-basedurban transport startupCitymapper  who have just poured $40 million into a newSeries B round for itsapp which algorithmically knits together different transit options to help city dwellers quickly figure out how to get from A to B.Announcing the Series Bin a Medium post Citymapper lauds the great terms it secured for theround witha jokey aside that itsinvestors have promised to only take buses from now on.Investors name-checked in the round include Index Ventures (Dom Vidal),Benchmark Capital (Peter Fenton), Yuri Milner, Tom Stafford and Michael Lynton. So if anyone spots any of these besuited chapsgetting into an Uber in the near future do please shoutCitymapper last raised in April 2014, with a$10 million Series A round led by Balderton Capital  which it said would be used to expand its team and add more cities.At the time it was only availablein four cities: London, Paris, New York and Berlin. It nowcovers around 30  so its delivered on significantly expanding its reach over the past 21 months.But its eyeing a much bigger urban empire withthe Series B funding going towardsa hugeramping up ofits team. Citymapper notesits hiring in every significant metro city in world.Speaking to TechCrunch about the raise, Citymapper founder and CEO Azmat Yusuf saysit does not have a specific target in mind in terms of how many cities it wants to launch in over the next few years, because that depends on how it manages the scaling process.There isnt a specific target number that were going to go for. The thing we like to do is really focus on quality and so we look at a city and say can we do an excellent job? And part of when you scale a company youre trying to figure out how do you maintain that degree of quality? So its not something were honestly sure about in terms of ifwe manage to figure out how to do a great job then well expand faster. And if we struggle with expanding well slow down and make sure we do it well. So the number of cities is not the target. The target is basically how do we do a great job?Citymapper alsohintsthat its transport option simplificationambitions extend beyond being useful in obviousgood-fit cities  wheretransport chaos is at least timetabled  writing that it is eyeing up the challenge of expanding into emerging markets too:Its not just about London, NYC and Paris anymore. The next set of challenges involve the massive emerging market cities where the infrastructure is limited, rules of transit are different, data is sparse, and even the consumer approach to smartphones and apps is not the same.Discussing the challenge posed by operating a transport routing algorithm app in emerging market cities with far more complex and dynamic infrastructure, Yusuf saidCitymappers backend toolset a control centre interface which it refers to asthe Batcave where its staffcanaugment officialtransport data with additional transportinteland fixes on the fly  would bekey to operating in such environments.When we launch in an emerging market city we expect theres going to be more fixing, he says. And now we can basically do that ourselves without asking the [transport] agency to fix their data.In London the entire thing is TfL, but in emerging markets sometimes you have semi-private, semi-public [transport options] They are part of the data. We have to create that data ourselves, he adds.Other areas of focus for thenewfunding are the core product. Citymapperwrites thatitsinvesting heavily in this including currentlyre-writing its routing algorithm tomake it more realtime (using the actual state of the network at any minute, including disruptions), more human (tuned to what we really do in cities, personal and customisable), and more multimodal (mixing up modes including non-transit).It also hints at having other products in theworks  including somethingcode-named Caterpillar. On this its Medium Postsays:A completely new product that should launch in 2016. It changes everything. Caterpillar is top secret hush hush.Yusuf wont provide any more detail on this, saying we like to keep things under wraps, but he does flag up the less visible elementsofCitymappers product when asked what else its working on.We have this app thats very visible and everyone thinks that were just the app and part of what were trying to tell is the story that we also do a lot of data work. And the other thing that were trying to say is were doing more things. Its not just that theres a single dimension of an app. Were actually doing a lot more. We talk about the API, and the fact that were trying to support others to use our tech as well, he says.He alsodeclines to comment on the specific terms of thefinancing but a Sky News report earlier this week  which reported the startup was in the process of raising a new funding round in the tens of millions of pounds range (and also correctly identified Benchmark as an investor)  suggested the investment might value the business at more than 250 million.Citymapper ends its Medium post with a nod to discussions about whether it might be fast becoming a U.K. unicorn by saying: Were not a unicorn. Were more like a dolphin.