Vanitee, a six-month-old Singapore-based startup that provides a marketplace to connect beauty practitioners with customers, has raised $3.5 million as it prepares to expand its service across Asia.The round was raised acrossin two lumps. Initially, Southeast Asia-based beauty seller Luxasia and Robert Yap, head of logistics firm YCH, agreed to investment around $1.4 million, but subsequent contributors led by from serial investorIvan Lee andJapanese beauty portal @cosme raised the round. Interestingly, a filing with SingaporesACRA shows that Garena  a billion dollar tech firm covering payments, games and e-commerce  also partookin Vanitees round.Vanitees origins come from the beauty box scene. Back in early 2012, Douglas Gan  a Singaporean entrepreneur behindShowNearby,bought by Yellow Pages back in 2010, and other projects  was a co-founder who startedVanity Trove, a servicethat let users receive a monthly pack of beauty products for a fixed fee. The company subsequently hoovered up a cluster of rivals  including Rocket Internet-backed Glossybox Taiwan  in a six deal acquisition spree.As hype around the beauty box scene died down in Asia, Vanity Trove tried to go digital with the launch last year ofa social network aimed at helping women discuss their favorite products and connect online. Gan said that while takeup from users was positive, he and his founding team were unable to gain investor interest. Going back to the drawing board, they made adjustments to turn Vanity Trove into a profitable business and set about thinking up their next move.Vanitee was born out of a more social approach to beauty box company Vanity TroveThat turned out to be a new business: Vanitee  an idea cooked up at PayPals Battle Hack event in Singapore in September 2014. After finishing third at the hackathon, the team took timeout to talk to Vanity Trove partners, suppliers, users and really anyone with an interest in beauty products, and took the conceptforward.The idea of a service is to facilitate direct connections between the beauty industry and consumers, much like Airbnb. (Airbnb is a major influence, right down to the design of Vanitees website, it seems.) That means thatbeauty consultantscanget a little extra business beyondtheir work ata salon, or go independent if they prefer. But, beyond just helping the professionalsget clients and bookings,disintermediating salons gives potential customers a professionalexperience  be it a nail manicure, makeup, hair, or more  at a cheaper price than theyd otherwise pay. Added bonus: the professional can come to you.It is still early days for Vanitee,which officially launched in Singapore in May of this year. Gan told TechCrunch that the website and mobile appshave served nearly 5,000 customers so far with over 550 independent beauty professionals offering services through theplatform. (More than 1,000 more are going through the companys stringent verification process right now, according to Vanitee.)Already, though, Vanitee is looking at a regional play. It has plans to launch its service in Malaysia in the first quarter of 2016, and it is also eying East Asia. With @cosme on board as an investor, theres a clear path to expanding into Japan, while Vanitee has taken a step towards launching in Korea by acquiring the team behind Blucarrott, a Seoul-based company that provides a similar service.Blucarrotts 10-person team will relocate to Singapore in January to integrate into Vanitee and the companys culture. The longer termplan, Gansaid, is to move them back to Seoul to launch Vanitee Korea before the end of 2016.Beyond Japan and Korea, which represent two of the worlds most lucrativemarkets for beauty products and services, Gan said that Hong Kong and Taiwan  two countries he is familiar with from Vanity Trove  are other potential expansions overtime. With investors like Garena and Luxasiain its stable, Vanitee will be able to call on regional experience and expertise across Southeast Asia, too.Indeed, learning from existing businesses and those who run them is exactly why Vanitee didnt raise from VC firms, Gan explained.Southeast Asia osa very different landscape for investors versus the U.S., he told TechCrunch in an interview. Theres a lot of synergy raising from corporates rather than VCs. We were evaluating whether to bring a VC, butwe found Luxasia added a lot more value. As for@cosme, we [hope to] learn from them, and what makes them sustain.Beyond geographical development, Vanitee is working to add more features to its service. An in-service CRM tool for professionals are among the new additions coming soon.Southeast Asia has definitely seen a growth in on-demand services, as GrabTaxi and Uber have become increasingly mainstream and Airbnb more popular, and it remains to be seen exactly which of these cluster of startupswill sink or swim over the long-term. Vanitee is at the point where it is aiming to scale into new markets, so its tough to judge its feasibility right now,but it is shaping up to be the primaryplayer thattests the sustainability of this business model for beauty services.