Meet Ventoura: thelatest startup seeking its fortune by buildingapeer-to-peer platform. This one isplaying in the travel space, and has just launchedan app where travelers can connect with others headed to the same destination so they have some drinkingbuddies when they land  a la Tinder Passport, or a travel app likeTripr.The other half of Ventourasapp-based platform aims to link travelers with localsoffering off-guidebook tours to unlock the inner secrets of foreign cities. Locals can charge a fee for thesetours, with payments takenvia the app to keep things low friction, and Ventoura taking a commission on any booked tours so it has a built in revenue stream.If youre getting a sense of deja vu thats because therehave been plenty of attempts to build the airbnb of travel guiding. One such attempt at socializing travel,Gidsy, deadpooled back in 2013  acquired by a more straight laced travel startup, GetYourGuide, which focuses on hawkingmainstream tours and attractions.But Gidsy was not alone in the space. Trip4Realis still around offering local guiding via a web platform, rather than an app. Theres also the likes ofVayable, GuideMeRight, Peek, Musement, LovliLocalsand MeetJuneall playing in a similar space. And of coursetheres the veteran social travel community which combines local drinking buddies with freebieaccommodation, Couchsurfing.You could evensay Airbnb has some skin in this game too, with hosts on that p2p platform encouraged to offertips and advice to guests on where to go in their home city  andsometimes even being willing to take a guest to their favorite watering hole themselves. (Airbnb has also testeda local concierge feature which lets users ask its hosts questions.)So Ventoura is entering a very congested and contested space. But one it reckons is still ripe for a big platform playto emerge. Co-founder Raymond Siems argues there is a gaping hole in the travel market, one which he says both Tinder and Airbnb are starting to move in on  illustrating the sizableopportunity  but which neither has owned yet, leaving roomfor a fleet of foot startup to elbow in. And thats what Ventoura is hoping to do.Ventoura combines social discovery and sharing economy, he tells TechCrunch.We hit the market in the space between a Couchsurfer or Airbnb host that goes above and beyond the call of accommodation to share their city and their culture with guests, and a travel guide whose profession is to take travelers on tours. Its still a substantial gap in the market.Ventoura Locals offer a less rigid experience than a sightseeing tour, and cover a wider range of activities. Students love the idea of earning extra income creating a tour around their degree/passion/hobbies. Its like Couchsurfing or Airbnb, but travellers arent fumbling around in your kitchen at 5am the next morning.Siems says Ventoura has tweaked the social travel guide business model, learning from previous peer-peer guiding services that failed to go the distance. Thats why ithas both traveler to traveler matching, to quickly grow traffic on its platform, pluslocal guiding to pull in revenue and offer something groundedwithlocal flavor. Its also taking amobile first approach, with apps for iOS and Android, which he saysmakes it easier to take payments.Our functionality combination is powerful, he says. Most people dont arrive in London and think Hey I could meet someone and go on a coffee shop crawl, but they will go there and think I want to meet travelers, and in Ventoura, theyll see the coffee shop crawl and other travelers through the same screen.Traveller-traveller gives the app volume an potential for rapid growth, most P2P guiding services cant grow fast enough  and it makes the app a one stop social app for travelers, he adds.Ventoura was founded last May, andis based in Finland. The app wastrialled in Helsinki with around 50 Local guides, prior to the public launch at the end of last week. The startup hasclosed a $250,000+ extended seed round from a private VC to get it this far.