We hear a lot about the Internet of Things on the consumer side. The oft trotted out example of thesmart refrigerator that tells consumerswhen theyverun out of the milk, and so on. But moreseriouspotential for IoT  and potentially seriously big wins  arelikely to be onthe enterprise sidewhere connectedsensors can be deployedto automate at scale.By, for example pulling energy consumptiondata onlarge facilities and driving smarter and more responsive building operation  with the prize being major cost and resource savings.b2b IoT startup Verdigris is playing in just such a space.The companytook in a $6 million Series A round in December, which its just announcing now  and which includes, on top of that, a $3 million convertible seed, bringing its total raised to date to $9 million. Investors in the business include Jabil Circuit, Stanford StartX Fund, Founder.org Capital, DCVC, and a collection of private investors.While, in classic startup style, Verdigris kicked off activities inaSunnyvale, CA garage, back in 2010, its now based at the NASA Ames Research Park in Moffett Field  andhas 20 active customers at this point, according toco-founder Thomas Chung.The founding team switched from tinkering in a garage to going full time on the business in 2012, launching their IoT-powered b2b SaaS energy consumption analytics service for large facilities two years ago, in March 2014.We focus on domestic U.S. companies in hospitality, manufacturing, and healthcare facilities. We have two installations overseas. One is in Cairo, Egypt, the other in Livingston, UK. Both sites are active and serving as international proof of concepts, Chungtells TechCrunch.The idea for Verdigris came after the other two co-founders, Mark Chung and Jonathan Chu, had been working on advanced algorithmic acceleration for deep packet inspection at their prior company, Netlogic. One month in December of 2009 Mark had an excessive electricity bill. We had an idea to apply a deep packet algorithm to figuring out where it was coming from, says Chung.What the team has now is an energy consumption analytics system designed to pull data on large facilities and automatically detect energy-consumingdevices based on their individual electronic fingerprint. The system then serves up real-time energy consumption data to facilities managers via a series of analytics dashboards.We provide analytics and workflow automation to 24/7 facilities teams to improve operational efficiency, reduce equipment downtimes, and save on energy, delivered as a SaaS, is howChung sums it up.Our technology is an artificially intelligent energy sensor for facilities, he says, going into more detail. It automatically detects building equipment  everything from HVAC cooling towers and Electric Vehicle stations to iPhone chargers and laptops. This allows us to make actionable recommendations for facilities to improve how they condition their building, and manage their equipment and energy load.The system is comprised of proprietary sensor hardware (pictured below)  aka a custom built magnetic digital sensor that uses the Hall effect to capture electricity finger-prints'  coupled with machine learning algorithms that can detect and track how energy is being consumed on the buildings energy network.The hardware sensors aredesigned to be attached to individual circuits in a building without the need for rewiring. The sensors are daisy chained together and attached to a 4G/LTE enabled data transmission device fixedto each electricity panel in a building  enabling the data to be offloaded to Verdigris cloud platform for analysis.The energy data is packaged securitized and sent in real-time to an enterprise grade server in the cloud powering our algorithms, explains Chung. Features of the data are clustered through unsupervised Machine Learning into sets that reflect individual devices and device states.Once the clusters are learned, their representation is recorded in a library of devices. Convex optimization techniques can then map the device representations to the incoming stream of data. If we dont know what kind of equipment it is or it hasnt been seen before, the AI will prompt the user or our professional services team for labeling information.Verdigrisdelivers all this energy consumption intelto its customers as an enterprise SaaS, with a monthly fee for usage. It has built four products for facilities teams at this point: a mobile webapp that offers real-time event tracking and notification; a fully featured web dashboard that lets users configure systems, label detected equipment, and trend and analyze the data; an interactive data visualization interface designed to engage building occupants and provide insights into personalized data; and curated monthly operations and energy reports for Chief Engineers, Finance and Ops Managers to gain visibility into asset performance and uptime and offer recommendations for adjustments to improve operational and energy performance.While its started withenergy consumption analytics at this stage, using its IoT hardware and AI softwareto improve in-building intelligence for facilities managers, the ultimate aim is to offer even more algorithmicautomation down the line, by adding and automating controls.Chungsays Verdigrissees its biggest growth potential in: Developing control features or integrating them through partnerships.We feel like our greatest value add will be when we can do the heavy lifting for our customers and increase the actionability of the insights we deliver, he notes.Its fair to say that were in the early stages of a market transformation that will create new value in business and energy management, headds.WhileChung notes there are steadily growing numbers of connected devices in the buildings environment, he says most are either closed looped systems or devices with singular purposes with very little incentive to cross communicate  arguing that the really big wins from IoT will come from building out networked infrastructure, rather than a conglomerate of individual smart sensors.The current market is still fragmented, wide open and the opportunity is huge, he adds. The number of connected devices in the building environment has been steadily growing, yet we dont see a plausible leader in the space. The large incumbents are still in closed looped, isolated BMS systems. Newer devices are coming online with wi-fi, zigbee, or LTE. These devices all have singular purposes with very little incentive to cross communicate. Regardless the value of their stand alone function, as a networked infrastructure they are far more valuable than the sum their independent features.Verdigris has been building an artificial intelligence truly capable of understanding device-level electricity consumption and usage in buildings for the first time. We see this as a critical step toward creating ambient intelligence  the idea in the not-so-distant future, buildings will be autonomous, efficient and sustainable environments responsive to their inhabitants, he adds.