So this just happened. AOL, owner of TechCrunch, is getting acquired: U.S. carrier Verizon said in a statement that it is buying the company for $4.4 billion, or $50 per share. Weve just been sent an internal memo about the deal that we are embedding below.AOL will become a subsidiary of Verizon as part of the deal, overseeing a bigger push into content and mobile video by Verizon.Verizons acquisition further drives its LTE wireless video and OTT (over-the-top video) strategy, the carriersaid in a statement.In addition to original content across different platforms like video and written word, and desktop and mobile, there are other assets that couldbe interesting fits for Verizon.For starters, AOL has been building up a programmatic advertising business to build up how AOL monetizes alongside newer formats like video and mobile. Currently that business  which is the fastest growing operation atAOL in terms of revenues  is split between ads on AOL-owned sites and third-party sites. Verizon picking this up could potentiallyfurther build out both, with the company partnering with the likes of ESPN to develop content and also giving the AOL-owned properties potentially much bigger audiences.The other area of AOLs business that is a fit for Verizon is the companys still-lingering dial-up business, which is remainsa big revenue generator for AOL, last quarter pulling in $182.6 million.That may be adecline of 7 percent compared toa year ago but, as a business that gets almost no investment but continues to run, membership (where the dial-up business sits) is still a majority of the companys operating income. Verizon could potentially tap these customers for potential switch to broadband and other services on top of that, an area where AOL hasnt really innovated on its own.If you recall there were rumors earlier this year that Verizon was eyeing up the company. While Verizon appearedto dismiss the reports at the time, it turnsout that it was definitely interested after all.For what its worth, wed heard the same about Verizon being interested but that there were some sticking points about whether it would buy only a part or all of AOL, which appear to have been put to one side for now.The deal means we will be a division of Verizon and we will oversee AOLs current assets plus additional assets from Verizon that are targeted at the mobile and video media space. The deal will not change our strategy  it will expand it greatly. The deal will give our content businesses more distribution and it will give our advertisers more distribution and mobile-first features. The deal will add scale and it will add a mobile lens to everything we do inside of our content, video, and ads strategy,Tim Armstrong, AOLs chairman and CEO, said in the memo.There are lingering questions about whether its an all-in deal for the longer term, or whether certain operations that are not as central to Verizons bigger strategy may eventually get offloaded.AOL will be having an all-hands at 10am Eastern time this morning and well report what comes up there, too.Armstrong will continueto head up AOL after the deal is completed.Full memo below, and more to come.