Longtime Apple industrial designer Danny Coster is joining GoPro. Coster had worked at Apple since the early 1990s,and helped Apple re-establish itself after Steve Jobs returned. Now he has to do that to GoPro.GoPros stock popped on the news and is trading up on the day.The news comes from The Information and an internal email sent from GoPros founder and CEO, Nick Woodman.Ironically, Danny and I first met in December, 2001, on the beach in Sayulita, Mexico at the very start of the five month surfing trip where I developed and tested the first GoPro prototype, said Woodman in a released statement. His design pedigree speaks for itself, but I will say that we feel energized to have him join GoPro.GoPro has had rocky year and news of Danny Coster joining the company caused its stock to jump to its highest level since the middle of January. As of this posts writing, the stock price is up 16% on the day.Coster will report to Nick Woodman and official join the team at the end of April.GoPro Appoints Danny Coster Vice President of DesignCoster brings more than 20 years of storied design experience to GoProSAN MATEO, Calif., April 13, 2016  GoPro (NASDAQ: GPRO) today announced that Daniel (Danny) Coster has been named Vice President of Design, effective the end of April. He will report to GoPro CEO and founder Nick Woodman.Mr. Coster will influence all aspects of design at GoPro in his new role, including hardware and software and services, lending his strategic vision and expertise to maximizing the GoPro users experience from end to end.Ironically, Danny and I first met in December, 2001, on the beach in Sayulita, Mexico at the very start of the five month surfing trip where I developed and tested the first GoPro prototype, said Woodman. His design pedigree speaks for itself, but I will say that we feel energized to have him join GoPro.A core member of Apples elite industrial design team for more than 20 years, Mr. Coster is credited for his contributions to a wide range of now iconic consumer electronics ranging from the iPhone 4 to the iPad wireless keyboard. He holds more than 500 design patents and several utility patents, and has been recognized by several international design organizations for his work.Im honored to join the GoPro team, said Coster. This extraordinary company is close to the hearts of so many people around the world. Its brand and products inspire us to capture and share our lives most important moments. I am excited to shape the future with the incredible team at GoPro.
