Smartphone users shoot a lot of video, but turning those videos into something special still takes a lot of work. A newly launched app called Videorama aims to solve that problem by offering a powerful video editor thats also super simple to use. In other words, you dont need to be a video pro in order to do things like trim videos, addtext overlays, music, or special effects.Aimed at beginners to video editing as well as social media marketers hoping to capitalize on Instagrams new support for 60-second video, Videorama is like the video equivalent to graphic editors like Canva or PicMonkey. While the former two services let you create your own graphics for sharing on social media and elsewhere, Videorama is about taking your video footage, then spicing it up before putting it in front of a wider audience.The app is fast and straightforward to use. You can combine your photos and video together, if you choose, trim videos, and preview your changes in real-time.Alarger feature set is available via in-app purchase, however. You can pick which features you want to buy individually  for example, while full HD support is free, many overlays cost $0.99 as do special effects and music packs. But the app provides a robust starter kit, soyou dont feel like theres nothing to do in the app without forking over money.That said, thereare a tons of these premium packs available, which letyou do things like addexplosions, electric bursts, magic spells, weather effects like rain or snow, and much more. You can also make your movie look like old black-and-white footage, or make it look like its burning, among other things. And you can buy music packs or import your own tunes. A movie fonts pack is also available for $0.99.Removing the watermark costs $2.99, which is the most expensive in-app purchase.Videorama comes from atwo-person indie developer team based in Istanbul, Apperto, who previouslycreated the Typorama appfor making typographic art. That app was featured by Apple and saw over a million downloads in a year.This new app is their big follow-up, they told TechCrunch.Were cinema geeks and we always dreamt of an app where you can add Hollywood-style explosions, magic spells, weather FX etc to your home-made movies, explains Apperto co-founder Sarp Erdag. We combined the idea with the style of a desktop quality video editing suite and the result came out to be Videorama.The app quietly launched around a month ago, but ithas seen 130,000 downloads overthe last five days thanks to being featured on the iTunes App Store. The team has not taken investment, but has received acquisition and partnership offers following its release from big brands, we understand.Videorama seems to be most competitive with apps like Cameo, the video editor Vimeo bought back in 2014 and upgraded last summer. However, where Cameo is largely focused on editing video thats then uploaded to its own network, Videorama isnt associated with a particular brand. Its videos are instead easily shared to Facebook, Instagram, email, messaging, or elsewhere, via iOSs share sheet extension.The app itself is a free download on the iTunes App Store, with optional in-app purchases.