Cinemacraft, the Japan-U.S. company that provides interactive online video technologies, has launched a series of news tools aimed at givingbroadcasters and brandsnew ways to boost engagement on their clips, beyond just relying on repositories like YouTube.Rather thantrying to replace YouTube, Vimeo and others, thecompany complements these services and caters tospecific broadcasters, such as movie publishers or multi-channel networks, who are looking for adifferent way toengage viewers thats more in line with social media.The company, which is actually rebranding to Videogram  the name of its product  raised a $3.9 million Series A funding round this January, and founder Sandeep Casi told TechCrunch that the new products are a result of feedback that it has seen, particularly from MCNs, over the course of 2015.Videogram has long offered interactive video embeds, which show multiple frames from a clip rather than a single thumbnail to entice a viewer in, but it has now launched a new card format that takes things up a notch. Videogram embeds remain free to deploy anywhere on the web, but many content producers found that theyneeded something that was more specific to the demands ofsocial media.Each is comprised of an eight-second preview  aGIF, which autoplays on Twitter and Facebook  thatis automatically assembled by Videograms engine and changes based on interaction.Cards include auto-generated previews, the larger framerEach card isadaptively learning, so when people share the video, it keeps track and reformats the preview based on what people are looking at, Casi said in an interview. That helps enable discovery to happen even if you watch it now, the content might have changed a week later.The card also includes a new, sleek video player design that lets viewers find other content via random discovery, categories and channels.New look video cardThat additional opportunity for interaction, Casi explained, was something many Videogram partners requested.Publishers have beenasking for a landing site since traffic would go to the embed and then disappear after. They began realizing it wasnt sticky, he said, emphasizing that the new format could help convert casual wanderers from social media into more engaged viewers.Finally  because news comes in threes  Videogram has also launched a new search and channel option. While that mayrival YouTube, Vimeo, Vine and others byserving up content for consumers, those platforms are so established it isnt a contest. Instead, Videogram is focused on publishers who, Casi said, are sick of managing videos across multiple sites and want a centralizedlocation for everything video-related.They wanted a unified search and channel to showcase content from all networks, he said. We have integrated search from YouTube, Vimeo, and Dailymotion and curation of Facebook and Twitter videos.How a Conan channel might lookPutting all your content in one place makes sense for specific brands or broadcasters, for example all of the pre-launch clips for a film. Each page can be whitelabelled, too, which makes it an interesting option as an interactive extension of a website or promotional microsite. Consumers can not only search, but they can also create their own Videograms which show up on the channel  Casi again points to new engagement potential. Videogram said it is bringing on broadcastersfrom across these channels, and has also signed up four undisclosed MCNs to produce white label sites.Fans may have noticed that the Videogram iOS and Android apps have left their respective app stores. This is only temporary, and Casi explained that they are being outfitted with the new design to match the web-based versions, which are optimized for mobile and smart TVs, too. The redesigned apps should return in the coming weeks, the Videogram CEO confirmed.