Vidme, a video sharing application which is a lotan Imgur for video, as it also hasastrongconnection with the Reddit community, has raised $3.2 million in new funding, the company is announcing this morning. Investors in the seed round include Mark Suster ofUpfront Ventures, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian of Initialized Capital, First Round, Lowercase Capital, SV Angel, Mucker Capital, Launchpad, and others.The video servicewas one of three projects created byBit Kitchen, a product lab founded byAlex Benzer, previously the founder and CEO at L.A.-basedSocialEngine, and Warren Shaeffer, previously COO at SocialEngine. The team was putting together projects and releasing them into the wild to see what user response would be, but it was Vidme which ended up taking off.By January 2014, the site had racked up 140,000 uniquesin its first month, thanks in part to members of the Reddit community who used the site as a quick and easy way to share a video with their posts. Today, says Benzer, Vidme has grown to over 30 million uniques per month.The co-foundersays investors were largely drawn to Vidme because the service offers aninteresting differentiator in the video space, and has beendemonstrating early traction. Plus, he notes, the demand for digital video content today is huge, and the market is growing quickly.Theres this tidal wave shift of people consuming content on their phones, and [investors wanted to fund]a team thats thinking about that all day and coming up with innovative ways to re-imagine both the discovery experience and creation experience as well, explains Benzer.What makesthe service compelling, compared with alternatives like Vimeo or YouTube, for example, isits simplicity. All you have to do isbrowse to a video file or GIF, drag-and-drop one from your PC or just paste in a URL. Meanwhile, Vidmes mobile app lets you upload files right from the gallery on your phone.After the video is uploaded, you can share the Vidme link to social networks and elsewhere, including posting it on Reddit.Most of Vidmes growth has been driven by the utility of one-step video uploading, says Benzer.However, whats also notableaboutVidme is that it doesntrequire usersto register with their social profiles, email addresses or phone numbers (though Facebook, Twitter and email are optional). Instead, you only have to pick a username and password when signing up. But you dont have to create an account to upload  you can also do so anonymously.The videos are associated with your device, however, so you can pull them down later if you choose.More recently, Vidme has rolled out additional discovery features on its network, including its own front page showcasing popular videos which refresh daily. The company now sees the potential for Vidme to function somewhat like a video magazine, were told. And, taking inspiration from Reddit, its even adding moderators for its various categories.To date, Vidme users have uploaded a wide range of content to the site, including live footage of a somewhat news-y nature, personal videos, and a range of other content that Vidme has sorted into dozens of categories  some of which are reminiscent of those you would find on Reddit or Imgur. The default networks include categorieslikeAnimation, Awesome, Aww, Drones, Funny, Trees, WTF, and more.But elsewhere, there are even morecategories, ranging from entertainment to tech to sports to Minecraft and many others. Some users are sharing their Snapchat Stories on Vidme, while others are using it to collect GIFs. But largely, the videos are entertaining in nature.Were building towards being a new entertainment platform, a creator-friendly community and a very meritocratic place for content to get discovered and rise to the top, says Shaeffer.The company is now investing in creator tools, includinga new mobile app that will allow users to create a unique kind of video, the co-founder hints. He says the company is also developing its API, which allows third-party sites and other developers to build on top of Vidme. Some potential use cases are apps for other platforms, or integrations into other websites, for example.Eventually, the company hopes to generate revenue through native ads, not pre-roll, but thats further down the road. In the near-term, the team is focused onimproving itsexperience on Android with a better application thats more like the current iOS build.Vidme is a small team of six in L.A. Its iOS application, which was updated earlier this week, is available on iTunes here.