Vimeo isramping up its efforts focused on getting its programming in front of an adult audience interested in indie video content, with the announcement of a partnership withSpotlight Cinema Networks that brings its short-form videos to the silver screen. Spotlight, which is owned by Mark Cuban, Todd Wagner and Arthouse Marketing Group, works with independent theater chains, and specifically those catering to anupscale, 18+ audience.The deal will see one to three of Vimeos short films being played monthly during Spotlights 20-minute preshow before each moviein the Spotlight network. This includes a number of indie and art house chains across the U.S., including those in big cities like New York, D.C., Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Miami, St Louis, San Francisco, L.A., and many more.The companyworks withAngelika Film Center, Laemmle Theatres and Landmark Theatres, among others. In total, Spotlight has over 200 theaters nationwide.Vimeo confirms that no investment was made as a part of this deal, nor did any money exchange hands. The two companies will be co-selling together, a representative says.The films to be aired on-screen will be chosen from Vimeos Staff Picks Channel, an editorially curated selection of the networks programming from its best filmmakers. These top films have also been more recently featured in Vimeos mobile application, following anupdateaimed at improving discovery across thevideo service.In addition to getting its content on the movie theaters big screen, Vimeo and Spotlight are working together on the advertising front as well, as a part of this deal involves cross-channel opportunities for their premium advertisers, the company notes. Plus, Spotlight will also be able to utilize Vimeos in-house studio to create its own content, which will also appear on Vimeo.The partnership begins this weekend (Friday, April 15), with the debut of filmmaker Mac Premos 3-minute short The Bucket Board, a story about making skateboards from trash and plastic buckets.The Bucket Board + Chill at Brooklyn Transition Center P373K from mac premo on Vimeo.PuttingVimeo into theaters may makeit sound like the company has Netflix-like ambitions (Netflix moved into feature films, including those aired in theaters, last fall). However, this is more ofa marketing opportunity for Vimeo. The company has been doubling down on its investments in original content, and isworking to differentiate itself from rival YouTube by targeting an older audience.While many of YouTube Reds programs are aimed at a younger fanbase, as with PewDiePies new show now on YouTubes subscription service, Vimeos videosare often of a more adult nature. Many focus on adult relationships and sexuality, or include adult humor, for example. Clearly, the audience for these films and series would overlap quite a bit with the 18-and-up crowd going to art house movies.Spotlights educated, affluent audience and theatres specializing in the best of independent films and luxury cinema, are very much in line with the Vimeo audience and make them the perfect theatrical partner for this program, saysVimeosRichard Bloom, VP of its Global Business Development & Brand Partnerships, in a statement.