Twitter launched its newly acquired Vine service all the way back in January of 2013, and over the course of that two years, weve never actually had anyone from the company on our Disrupt stage. But thats about to change. In May, well be joined by Jason Mante, head of user experience at Vine, on the stage at Disrupt New York to discuss all things Vine, mobile video, and more.Vine has come a long way since its launch more than two years ago.It only took a few months for the app to hit number one free app overall in the App Store, but with that popularity came all the folks who like to put porn on the internet  forcing Apple to remove the app from the Featured section of the store.But Vine matured beyond its growing pains pretty quickly, expanding the community and building out the platform by adding more and more granular features for user control without losing the sense of restriction that is a part of the Twitter brand as a whole.And that restriction has fostered an engaged, hyper-creative community. Vine 100 million web viewers each day, with 1.5 billion viewed loops each day. The content you can find on Vines Discover page represents some of the most high-quality user-generated content on the web today, and much of that comes from the rules the app imposes on the user.A lot of that has to do with Jason Mante, who was previously an art director and designer for the Toronto Film Festival as well as a professional musician. These days, he uses those experiences to shape the Vine user experience and community through features like Editors Picks, which has been around from the beginning and sets the tone for mainstream content. Hes also really great at Vine:About six months after Vine had launched, Instagram launched Instagram Video. It was the best of times and it was the worst of times for Vine, as the company had to deal with a major (but very different) competitor in the market while simultaneously finding added validation in the space from Instagrams entrance.Vine continued to flourish as a service, and has today matured into a platform that actually provides a living for great video artists, offers a kids option, and offers high-quality video for professionals. But not without losses.Cofounders Colin Kroll and Dom Hoffman have moved on from Twitter and Vine to work on their own projects over the past year.Well chat with Mante about the journey from launch to today and how the company plans on evolving in the midst of trending live broadcasts and steeper competition. Mante joins other notable speakers at Disrupt like Aaron Levie, Sean Rad, and Emily Weiss.But one important thing to know: early bird pricing for Disrupt ends on Friday, so if you like saving money, save yourself $1,000 and go grab tickets now. The show runs May 4-6 at the historic Manhattan Center. Tickets are available here.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsors@techcrunch.com.