
Tony Scherba is the president and a founding partner of Yeti. Technology is surrounding us; its surface is becoming more complex, pliable and familiar to the eye. Virtual reality is no longer creeping into the mainstream: Its leaping.Just last month, secretive VR startupMagic Leapreceived more than $793 million in new funding through Google, Qualcomm and others, quickening its progress toward creating seamless experiences in which digital and physical worlds collide.WhenMIT Technology Revieweditor Rachel Metz visited Magic Leaps headquarters, she discovered a world where crisp virtual characters were already roaming the halls, waiting for a device to be perfected that will bring them into the public eye.Not to be outdone, Microsoft revealed its plans to release a sleek-looking augmented reality headsetthis year, too. HoloLens will allow users to interact with holographic surroundings and characters, andMicrosoft partnersVolvo, NASA and Trimble are already testing it in the business world.Though the industry is giddy with the potential of VR, the consumer is still a step away from being able to enjoy a virtual experience while riding the bus.In terms of hardware, were standing just behind the starting line. Three companies are set to release VR headsets this year: Oculus VR, the Facebook-owned company, will release itsRiftheadset; HTC and Valve promise to release theirViveheadset; and Sonys model, thePlayStation VR, will emerge.These are exciting launches, but each headset has its own hardware demands that havent quite been solved. The Oculus headset must be connected to an Oculus-ready PC, which isnt cheap. On top of its $800 price tag, the HTC/Valve device needs a partner computer that costs $1,000. Sony has perhaps the most mainstream-ready device, although even it cannot operate unconnected to a late-model PlayStation.Still, tech companies have demonstrated a remarkable ability to address hardware barriers. Microsofts HoloLens, for example, weighs less than a pound, and itsdesignedto be worn with eyeglasses and ponytails, thanks to the headband that causes it to float atop users noses.Magic Leap is developing its product to beam images into the users field of view to ensure virtual images are comfortable, sharp and indistinguishable from real life.Motion sickness can also be problematic. The latency effect caused by VR displays refreshing can make users uncomfortable. To combat this, Google is bakingadditional sensorsinto itsCardboarddevice and improving its software.Additionally, audio components must be improved to precisely map the body and determine the direction of the users gaze. The body uses sound to continuouslyorient itself, so devices mimicking reality must direct sounds from the angle at which the eyes view holograms.Todays VR equipment still has some kinks to iron out, but the hardware is nearly complete enough for consumer use. However, for VR to make a proper splash, todays software developers must focus their efforts on creating content that consumers will use on their headsets.Developers should focus their efforts on these varieties of VR content to help users maximize theirdevices:Virtual entertainment:VR has the potential toremake storytelling, from how we watch movies to how weplay gamesto how we pass time while waiting for a flight.In anticipation, large entertainment studios havepartnered withVR companies, and some VR companies are evenforming their ownentertainment studios. Magic Leaps enigmatic CEO, Rony Abovitz, has been tight-lipped about the features of his VR device, but hes alreadydreamingof virtual concerts and cartoons.Consumers are already getting excited about VRs potential in thegaming world. In a manner endlessly more real than todays gaming hardware is capable of, VR will immerse players in games. Environments will become more expansive as plots become more riveting and characters become more vibrant.HoloLens recently hosted a contest to decide which VR game it would create. Voters selected Galaxy Explorer,in which users navigate space, land on planets and watch their homes be transformed into craters and nebulae.Try-before-you-buyexperiences:Industries in which consumers view or test a product prior to purchase will be transformed by VR.With ample VR walk-throughs, home buyers wont drive or fly out to see a property to get a good feel for it: Theyll be able to live in thousands of homes before making a decision.Likewise, VR has the potential to become users new travel agent, offering a teaser experience of a holiday destination.Matoke Tours, an African travel operator, launched its virtual brochure app earlier this year, allowing travelers to ride a hot air balloon or meet a gorilla before they set off on the real adventure.Automakers, too, can benefit from virtual content.Volvohas already pioneered the VR test drive to get consumers adrenaline pumping and their pocketbooks itching for the real deal.Educational content:With immersive tutorials, lessons and professional experiences, VR will make education more effective, more hands-on and much safer.With virtual lessons, Scottish children will sit in on lectures in South Africa. Immersive simulations can help studentslearn languagesmore fluently than classrooms ever could. History students could virtually experience events like Columbus discovery of the Americas and see long-gone cities mapped across contemporary landscapes.VR also will change the face of professional training.NASAs Sidekick projecthas already sent HoloLens devices to the International Space Station to help astronauts prepare for various life-threatening scenarios. Likewise, HoloLens haspartneredwith Case Western Reserve University to transform surgeons anatomical training. With the HoloLens, muscles can be investigated individually, students can practice procedures without slicing skin and a single cell can be traced uninterrupted.VR has the potential to transform nearly every industry imaginable: product design, interior design, car manufacturing  the list goes on. One can hardly imagine all the new industries that will be created. To reach those innovations on VRs horizon, industry content experts must partner with leaders in the tech sector to craft immersive content that educates, informs or entertains or, hopefully, does all three.VR has crept up on us faster than even we in the tech industry expected, and its on the cusp of consumer readiness. Fasten your seat belts (and headsets) and prepare for a new reality.