
Sampriti Bhattacharyya is a PhD candidate in robotics at MIT and founder of Hydroswarm.One of the biggest technologytrends of 2015 was virtual reality (VR), fromOculus RifttoGoogles cardboard headsets.TechCrunchDisrupt SF 2015saw a lot of VR experiences whereusers could wear headsets and navigatean immersive 3D world. In Las Vegas, CES demonstrated a range of new gadgets and gaming experiences involving bothVR and AR (augmented reality, e.g.,Magic Leap).It is exciting to predict which killer app incorporating these technologies might become the next unicorn in 2016. But perhaps it is equally worthwhileto pause for a moment and ponderthe implication of these technologies in the physical world, both in the near and distant future.Some of you might be familiar with Linden Labs virtual worldSecond Life,where you can create an avatar of your own and explore a fantasy world with other users. Unfortunately, it never got past amillion active players in the last 12years.Yet the speculation is that playingSecond Life usingaVR headset like Oculus Riftto get a totally immersive 3D experience might be thegame changer: You see and navigate from your avatars perspective. Such integration can bring awhole new dimension in our digital social experience.However, it is not yet that smoothto navigate in the virtual world; it will require a seamless integration of AI (artificial intelligence) algorithms.Dr. Ben Reinhardt, a roboticsengineer at Magic Leap,points out, The real intersection of VR/AR and AI is going to be world-modeling. Its essential for a virtual avatar to walk around a places representation (VR) as well as for a virtual avatar (in the form of a hologram) to walk around the real place (AR) or for a robot to navigate through it (AI).These converging needs may drive the unification of how we create the real worlds digital shadow and unlock applications we never saw coming.However, according toRoss Finman, an AI researcher at MIT working on mapping and navigating robots in complex virtualenvironments, the big leap in technology will actually be an extended model, where your avataroperates in the Virtual World even when you are not actively playing.Ofcoursethat requires the avatar has some sort ofautonomy andsomething more than Siris level of intelligence. It needs to haveanadaptive learning capability that imitates you.Essentially, that meansa virtual methat operateswithoutmy control. How does that work? In machine learning, researchers use a bunch of sensors to detectwhat excites you, saddens you, scares you, relaxes you all fed into analgorithm. Kind of like you and your best friend knowing the small details about each other, exceptthe computer never forgets and never stops payingattention.Hanson Roboticshas been doing extensive work in neural architecture creating what is calledmindfiles,or putting human consciousness in digital files. Wearables that monitor everything from sleep to calories, hydration andstresslevels can be used for continuously updating our digital imprints.In fact, a startup calledMedicalAvatarcame up with a digital avatar that stores your medical data in it, from height, weight and blood pressure to lab test results. The implication is that such a data-enriched avatar can perhaps even provide a future prediction of your health and how you age, as well asbea life coach.While the seamless working of an autonomous self is quite a while away,it is being extensively explored at universities (CMU, Stanford, MIT) and gianttech companies (Google,IBM Watson). Google and Amazon already know your favoritesongs and movies, and your taste in food and clothing.Its not hard to imagine a future where all data is consolidated into a very legit digital imprintof yourself: a cyberclone.Where it gets creepy isyour cyberclone could live in the virtual world despite your death in the real world. Acyber spirit? Would it compensate for your absence in the physical world?Imitating human behavior we dont understand ourselves isnot yet quite possible (memories, love, physical pain, etc.). And to roboticists like us who see our robots break every day,its hard to imagine a self-sustaining avatar. But think how fast technology has grown in just 200 years, from no light bulbs to satellites imaging every square inch of the earth. On the scale of the universe, or even human existence, thats no time at all!Suppose we can replicate ourselves in the virtual world. Then it brings us to some questions that we probablyshouldgive some thought to.Ifa program can imitate us, arent we all just programs? Perhaps all thesameprogram, with different parameters loaded? Load one set of numbers, you get me; another, you getyou! Mixing data gives rise tonew beings; tweak the program for virtual genetic engineering. Which means, companies likeGenepeekscould use your virtual clones to create customized babies in the future!If you think, as I do, that thoughts and feelings not the physical body  define the person, and if every detail of that individuality is captured by a computer script, is the virtual being any less real thanme? My cyberclone is me except that me can travel the world in microseconds.Multiple instances of my script (or multiple clones) means I could be talking to you in Tokyo and hiking the Appalachian Trail and having dinner in Paris  all at the same time!So would this be another me but more powerful, more flexible and immortal living in a parallel universe in cyberspace?Initially, interaction with the physical world could bethrough holograms, enabled by companies likeMagic Leap,plus robots directedby virtual people. But the virtual people dont die, so that worlds populationgrows faster than the physical one. As time goes on, the physical world becomesless and less relevant.What would the physical world even mean to the virtual people? They need to check some servers, fix some solar panels now and then, maybe throwsome more silicon in the hopper. Mindless robots directed by virtual people cando that. All the serious thinking would be in the virtual world.Experience would shape the avatars, just as it shapes us. Cyberclones will grow into unique entities as they interact with the virtual world. Eventually, yourcyberclone wont live by your rules. In fact, it would probably outright disobey. Recentresearchat Tufts Universityis working on exactly that:teaching robots to disobey humans if its harmful to them.But our clones would inherit from us both good and bad traits. Love, honor and imagination but also hate, envy and war. They wont have to compete for the resources our ancestors did, and that we still do today. But there will be competition for memory space, CPU cycles  or whatever those concepts morph into.Imagine terrorism in the virtual world, where pathogens computer viruses turned deadly can span the world in nanoseconds. We can only hope our cyberclones learn something we never have: how to resolve their conflicts peacefully.Looking at AI in todaystechnologybe it Siri or Amazons Echoit is hard to imagine the future I described.Its albeit a very distant extrapolation, but Im not the only one making it:Hawking, Gates and Muskall propose restrictions on AI research to avoid creating virtual beings we are unable to control.Brilliant minds like theirs cannot be completely wrong. If AI continues on its present path, it is possible that the virtual world might overtake and overwhelm us. If we want to prevent that, we should proactivelydefine the boundaries.Or we can accept cyberclones not as a threat, but simply the next generation.