Operas former CEO Jon von Tetzchneris launching the first preview of Vivaldi today, a new Chromium-based browser that is squarely aimed at power users. Vivaldi features tools like Quick Commands for using written commands instead of the mouse, an Opera-like Speed Dial for quickly accessing bookmarks, a note-taking feature and the ability to organize tabs into stacks.We are making a browser for our friends, von Tetzchnertold me earlier this week. Vivaldi is for all those people who wantmore from their browsers.Its been three-and-a-half years since the outspokenvon Tetzchner resigned as Operas CEO after co-founding the company back in 1995. He reappeared almost exactly a year ago when he launched Vivaldi  a social network and forum site for exiles from Operas now-closed community site. It was always pretty clear that von Tetzchner had largerambitions than running a forum, though.Von Tetzchner told me earlier this week that he thought he would happily continue using Opera after he left the company. But then he decided to get back into the browser game after Opera decided to kill off its Presto engine and go after a different user base. Opera was built around a community and a close connection with its users, he told me. I felt like that connection had been severed.The team has worked on the Vivaldi browser for the last year-and-a-half, and while this is clearly still an early preview and many features are still missing, the browser feels pretty polished already.Many of Vivaldis features were clearly inspired by Opera, and von Tetzchnerfreely acknowledges that  but then Opera decided to do away with many of these after it made the switch to WebKit (and later Blink).There are a lot of browsers available for the crowd that doesnt want a lot from their browsers, von Tetzchner argued. We are going for the kind of user who spends a lot of time online, keeps a lot of tabs open and likes to work efficiently with a lot of content.The Vivaldi team decided to go with Chromium as the foundation of the browser. The team was obviously too small to write its own engine from scratch, and while von Tetzchner also looked at using Mozillas engine and WebKit, he decided to go with Googles project in the end.Going with WebKit didnt make a lot of sense, he said. And going with Mozilla  we felt that fewer people were using it. They were two good choices in any case, but we went with the safer choice.Ive used the preview of Vivaldi as my main browser for a full day now and the team is definitely on the right track. The design emphasizes simplicity, but there are also a few playful touches. The tabs andmenus change color according to the dominant color in a sites favicon, for example (you can turn this off, too). Like earlier versions of Opera, Vivaldi puts a menu strip in the left corner of the window to allow you easy access to your bookmarks and other browser tools.There are lots of nifty little features already built in, including tab previews and the ability to move tabs to any corner of the browser window. At first, I thought the Quick Commands tools (which works a bit like Apples Spotlight) wouldnt be all that useful, but once youstart using this feature, it quickly becomes part of your routine, and I actually missed it when I went back to Chrome.Its still missing a couple of features I need for everyday use, though. There is no bookmarks bar yet, for example. You also cant install any extensions yet, either (though Vivaldialready has the hooks for that built in and will enable them in one of the next previews).In the long run, Vivaldi will also include a built-in mail client. That seems like a throwback to an earlier generation of browsers, but its something Opera long included in its browser and that, according to Tetzchner, is something he always liked to have in a browser himself.I dont think webmail is for everyone, he told me. Its definitely not for the advanced user. We find that lots of users have multiple mail accounts and they dont tie together and when you have the mail client built into the browser, it feels more natural. Vivaldi will soon offer its users a Vilvaldi.net email address, but the mail client will work with any email account.Vivaldi currently has about 25 employees and von Tetzchner is self-funding the projectfor now. In the long run, he plans to monetize through search deals and potentially through affiliate deals, too, though he noted that this issomething the company still has to figure out.