Vouch Financial, a social lending startup founded by ex-PayPal and ex-Prosper alumni offering customersloans with lower interest rates, has raised $3 million in new funding, according to an SEC filing. The company also confirmed the investment details to us, noting that the round, led byAlex Rosen of IDG Ventures, actually closed last year but had yet to be disclosed. Other investors contributing to whats being characterized as a seed stage round includeGreylock Partners, First Round Capital, and a number of angel investors, detailedon AngelList.Fastly co-founder and former Wikia CEO Gil Penchina,who knew Vouchs co-founders previously, was the first angel to invest in the startup, and also sits on the companys board.The startupis now one of several in the alternative lending space, which also broadly includes Prosper, Lending Club, Kabbage (Karrot), Lendable, Zopa, Funding Circle, OnDeck, CAN Capital, and many others. Some of theearlier entrants in this areawere true peer-to-peer lenders, but today many more are marketplace lenders. Some focus on lending to individuals, while others focus on small businesses.Vouch is aimed at consumers, however, and is not currently operating as a peer-to-peer or marketplace lender  the money loaned to individuals comesfrom Vouch itself for now. That choice is largely due to its status as a being a beta service. In the future, the loans funding source may change.What the company does differently from competitors is that it aims to leveragea persons social networkto make loans cost less.The company was co-founded in 2013 by CEO Yee Lee, previously of PayPal, Slide, Skype and more recently, VP of Product at Katango (acquired by Google), and CTOof One Jackson (acquired by TaskRabbit);Sue Korn, previously VP of Finance and Head of Operations at peer-to-peer lending marketplace Prosper;and Hugh Olliphant, longtime PayPal vet who sold the companyIP from his company gMoney in 2003. The Vouch Financial team also includes severalother execs and engineers hailing from PayPal, Prosper, and Google.The idea with Vouch is to give consumers a way to receive lower interest rates on loans by having other family members and friends vouch for them.Explains Lee, its kind of an old conceptto say that, if youre the kind of person whos being ignored by our current financial system, who do you turn to for help? Well, generally, your friends and family. Leesays whats novel about Vouch is this idea to actually plot that network and a users social ties as related to credit worthiness withinan application like his. If we can help map out that trust network, then maybe those would be interesting relationships to draw on for access to financial services, he adds.Those vouching for others will complete a short survey that asks them to detail how they know you, the borrower, and how financially responsible they think you are. Theyre also asked if theyll be willing to contribute if you become unable to make payments on your loan. (Answering yes is not required to vouch for someone, Lee notes.)Those vouchingcan also sponsor loan recipients with some amount of money, starting at $25.00, or they can choose to offer a higher amount. In these cases, if you default on your loan, those sponsors wouldpay that vouched amountback to make good on the loan.The startup looks at a number of explicit and implicit factors to determine what interest rate it offers a borrower using this social data, includingthings like how vouchers answered survey questions, how quickly they responded to a request to vouch for a friend, response rates for vouch requests, the overall size of someones network, how many vouchers took the extra step to also sponsor a loan, and much more.During this pilot testing period, Vouch offers installment loans of $500 to $7,500 paid back over the course of one to three years, with interest rates between 5 percent and 30 percent. It also examines more traditional criteria, too, including FICO scores, and status of the borrowers otheraccounts. Borrowers have to a legal U.S. resident, and, generally speaking, have to have a FICO score of 600 or higher, be current on all existing accounts, and not be in bankruptcy or foreclosure proceedings.However, Lee says that during testing, some of these rules have been in flux, and it has serviced loans from all different walks of life, ranging from those in more dire need to those just building their credit.There are also fewer fees with Vouch at present, as compared with some other lenders. The company doesnt assess an application fee, nor does it charge an annual fee or prepayment fee. Theres an origination fee of 1 percent to 5 percent, when youre sent your money, however, and late payment fees are 5 percent of your payment amount (with a minimum of $15).Whats notable about this startup, besides the social aspect to the lending process, is that it initiallytargeted usersby way of a mobile application. While also available on web, 70 percent of testers are on mobile.Currently available on iOS, users can downloadthe Vouch app,sign up, and then check their interest rate on a loan (without impacting their credit score), vouch for others and ask family and friends to vouch for them in return.Vouch has not yet officially launched, even though its website and app are live. The company plans to exit beta in a few weeks, says Lee, and will increase its loan size to $15,000 in the near future.Based in San Francisco, and currently participating in the Fall 2014 session at StartX, Vouch is a full-time team of 19.