Walmart is increasing its effortsinChinas e-commerce space after the worlds largest retailer took full ownership of Yihaodian, its online retail business in the country.The U.S. firm is buying up the remaining 49 percent stake inYihaodian, a lesser rival to U.S.-listed duo AlibabaandJD.com, from financial services groupPing An of China, its domestic partner there. The companyisnt, however,disclosing aprice forthe deal.Walmartupped its stake in seven-year-oldYihaodian three years ago. As of the end of 2013, the business counted 57 million registered users (up from 29 million a year earlier) and $1.9 billion in annual sales that latter figure (not profit/loss) ranked it among Chinas top five online retail stores. In an update, Walmart said today thatYihaodian now has over 100 million registered customers, and more than eight million products on offer.Yihaodian has excelled as one of Chinas top e-commerce businesses. Were excited about the team at Yihaodian and their strong local e-commerce experience, said Neil Ashe, president and CEO of Walmart Global eCommerce, in a statement. Our investment in Yihaodian is part of our long-term commitment to grow in China, and we look forward to continuing to play a positive role in the development of the e-commerce industry.Theres also a change at the top alongside this investment news. Yihaodians cofounders chairman Gang Yu and ex-CEO Junling Liu  exited the company earlier this month, andWang Lu  who is president and CEO of Walmarts efforts in Asia  has stepped in to helm thebusiness.Alibaba dominates Chinas online retail space with a number of services, including marketplace Taobao and brand mall Tmall, with JD.com a leading competitor. However, with e-commerce in the country tipped to rocket to $1 trillion by 2019from $307 billion last year, the pie is clearly large enough to warrant significant investment from players on the fringes, too.Amazon, for example, has upped its focus onChina despite being some way behind the top players. The U.S. firms localstrategy even includes selling items through rival Alibabas platform, such is the size of the opportunity.