
Eric Paley is a managing partner at Founder Collective. Starting a company is likeattempting to bend the world to your will. There are obstacles at every turn, and its never easy. Fundraising is one of those huge obstructions. Not only is the process of finding the true believers akin to finding the proverbial needle in the haystack, its also incredibly distracting.Raising more money to reach a technical milestone or to fuel a successful customer acquisition strategy are worth the distraction and pain. Raising a big round because your competitor just did, essentially keeping upwiththe StartupJoneses, is an all-too-commonwasteoftimethat can cripple your company.Ive often seen this happen to founders of companies with seemingly successful competition.Success in this case is often defined by capital raised, rather than satisfied customers. Founders become obsessedwiththe volume and valuation of a competitors latest round of funding. In some cases, this isnt even direct competition, but tangential competition that has no bearing at all on the founders startup.Visions of an even larger round, using their competitors fundraise as justification, begin to take shape. After all, if a rival companycan raise $15 million withtrivial traction, why cant we? VCs intrigued by a hot category, and plagued by FOMO, will at least take a meeting  sometimes even several meetings. Multiply that by the many VCs willing to take a meeting, and the founders are focused on an unnecessary fundraising process rather than figuring out how to build a great business.In most cases, this is a really bad idea. These competitors are noise. Their financings are extremely distracting noise. Ignore it, or youll find yourselfwastingtimewiththeJonesesinstead of building your startup.Money should be raisedwithclear sight lines to how it will move the needle for your customers and your business, not as a reaction to competitors. Fundraising is not a legitimate forum for competition. Raising more money than competitors can give founders the false sense that they are winning. They arent. As a result, founders lose sight of legitimate validation of winning the market.How does a founder reconcile that a less impressive competitor has raised so much capital? Venture capital can be capricious. Investors have eclectic tastes. A particular VC may have strong relationships witha particular entrepreneur or be privy to some market knowledge that you arent.In any case, its a bad idea to assume that just because a competitor raised a huge round that it will be easy for you. Its possible that if the VC had a bad day on the first meetingwithyour competitor, the deal might never have consummated. Dont let yourself be at the whim of investors.Dont depend on venture capitalists, or anyone other than your customers, for validation. Prove your products valuewithtraction. Remember, VCs are financiers, not oracles.An example of this phenomena can be found by comparing the histories of Digg and Reddit. Both companies were started at roughly the sametimeand offered basically similar functionality. Reddit raised $100,000 and was quickly acquired by Conde Nast for between $10 million and $20 million. Digg raised $45 million over four rounds of financing. Many predicted Reddit would be smashed by their better-funded competitor.However, Digg struggled to reconcile its user needswiththe need to generate revenue, and ultimately collapsed under the weight of their investors expectations. Reddit focused on building a community, was spun-out as a startup, and is now the 11th largest site on the webwitha fresh $50 million in funding. This cartoontells the storyin so many words.Could Reddit have been as successful if they spent most of their cycles keeping upwithDiggs balance sheet? It would have been easy for Reddit to raise funding to fight Digg, but they played the long game, focused on their users and, ultimately, made the bigger impact.Money will solve surprisingly few of your problems. Money is not whats keeping you from finding a unique way to reach your customers. You can pilot most channelswitha few thousand dollars, and when your fundamentals work, money becomes very easy to raise.Mailchimp and Atlassian bootstrapped their way to nine-figure revenues in the B2B market. Wayfair, a consumer-facing e-commerce company in Boston, deftly used payment terms to build a billion-dollar retail brand without funding, and first raised capital when they had more than $500 million in revenue. Money matters, but not as much as a maniacal focus on your business.Only raise money if you know how it will make your company smarter or more valuable.Funding should almost never be used to catch up to a competitor. Vying for parity in product, advertising and staffing is a distraction. Fatal blows usually come from missing key insights about your users, not features.Network-effects businesses,withwinner-takes-all dynamics, would seem to be an exception to this rule. However, Facebook is the clear winner in social networking, despite that MySpace had no shortage of capital supporting its implosion.Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, Tumblr, Pinterest, WhatsApp, WeChat and others managed to carve out multi-billion dollar niches, not by copying Facebook or by being equally capitalized, but by amplifying key aspects of it.Instead of trying to catch up to a competitor, think about how you can use capital to uniquely serve a subset of the market. Dont use money to close a gap in a race, use it to change the game. If capital was the key ingredient to success, no startup would stand a chance against well-funded incumbents. Yet startups successfully take on incumbents every daywitha sliver of the capital.Money can actually slow down startups, a problem Ive referred to as Tyranny of Incrementalism.This is what happens when a company closes capital and long-awaited VPs are hired, who in turn hire directors and analysts, and have requests for budget. Progress against the product roadmap slows as more people need to be brought up to speed. Previously successful marketing strategies begin to stall at scale. The larger the ship, the harder it is to turn.Often the speed you hoped to achieve is retarded by the growing pains. These slowdowns are compounded when the executive team doesnt have a clear view of how to apply the dollars. Gas in the tank fuels the engine  bathing your car in gas is a disaster waiting to happen.Frothy funding environments reinforce bad habits. Venture capital is a tool designed for a very specific purpose. Its hyperdrive. If you lay in the proper course, it will take you far. If you havent, youll just be way off the mark and beyond the reach of anyone to save you.Almost every CEO of a failed startup will blame a lack of cash for their companys demise. And there is no doubt that many a startup has been subject to the whims of the capital markets, but the reality is, if you make customers happy, develop a business model that jibeswithyour product and have patience, there is very little that can keep you from success  no matter how much more money theJonesesraise.