For months now, Tesla has been saying that their cars would soon pick up a whole new trick: autopilot.Later this week, the first of those features will hit Teslas fleet  but weve already taken them for a spin. We went hands-on (hands-off?) with a pre-release version of the autopilot software, letting the car steer itself down the highway at 70 miles per hour.One big thing to make clear: these features dont turn the Model S into a full blown self-driving car. You wont be punching in your destination and laying back for a nap; instead, these features are meant more to make your long highway commutes less painful.Elon Musk says he sees full automation coming within about 3 years; this is just a big first step.So what can it do for now?Once youre on the highway, an autosteering feature can maintain your speed, keep an appropriate distance from the cars around you, and keep you in your lane  even around big bends and turns. It doesnt just let out a loud beep when you start to drift out of your lane; it physically controls the wheel.Itll also change lanes for you  just pop on your turn signal, loosen your grip on the wheel, and itll merge over as soon as the way is clear.The autosteer features will work on city streets  but given that the car currently doesnt recognize things like stop lights, its not advised. Youd be taking over manually every few seconds or, you know, blasting through stop signs. Tesla is being pretty careful to caution that the features are really meant for the highway only, right now.Teslas autopilot/autosteering stuff works by combining data from four sources: ultrasonic (SONAR) sensors to look for cars around you, a forward-facing radar that can see through fog and rain, a forward-facing camera that handles computer vision voodoo like looking for speed limit signs, and high-precision GPS mapping data that acts as something of a second layer for when the built-in vision system needs a sanity check.Oh, and itll parallel park for you, too. That feature has made its way into other cars, of course  but it works well in the Model S. Its fast, and perfectly smooth. It doesnt feel like youre being parked by a robot; instead, it feels like youve got a really talented human parking the car.Wed need to spend more time with the autopilot features before we really gave it that good ol TC stamp of approval  but in our short test period with it, I can say it seemed to work well. Once I trusted the car to do the steering and loosened my grip, it was a pretty mindblowing experience.There were times when the system tripped up, but it did so gracefully. At no point during our test did it feel like the car was doing anything unsafe, nor did I ever feel like I couldnt immediately retake control. A few times, though, things that I was expecting to happen just didnt. Id tell the car to switch lanes; instead, it just stayed its course, keeping me perfectly in the lane I was already in.A Tesla rep tells me that this may have been due to the lighting conditions at the time; if the cars AI isnt 100% confident that its safe to change lanes, it just wont. Better to have a driver take over than to autosteer into something it somehow missed, right?Teslas autopilot features will work on Model Xs and Model S built after September 2014, though a one-time fee of $2,500 (generally paid at time of purchase) is required to turn the features on. These features should start rolling out, along with some visual/UI changes to the cars in-dash touchscreen interface, tomorrow.