The band OK Goreleased their latest creative music video and this one was taken on a parabolicairplane tens of thousands of feet in the sky. The video, which features OK Go floating in weightlessness,was for their song Upside Down & Inside Out.OK Go, who is famous for producinghighly creative and meticulously choreographed videos, partnered withRussian airliner S7 Airlinesfor this gravity inspired performance.Gravitys just a habit that youre really sure you cant break.  OK GoTo create the video,theS7 Airlines plane flewup and down in a wave-like path. This parabolic motion createdthe sensation of zero gravity for the band members who were free-falling inside the plane.Flight path of a parabolic plane / Image courtesy of NASAParabolic flights have been around for decades. Theyve been used to train astronauts, conduct science experience, shoot movies like Apollo 13, and even conduct photo shootslike Kate Uptons famous Sports Illustrated Swimsuit ZeroG shoot.During parabolic flights passengers experience periods of hypergravity (typically around 1.8 times gravity) and microgravity (close to 1 millionth the force of gravity you feel while standing on the surface of Earth).Typically, these flights will generate about 20-25 seconds of hypergravity and 25-30 seconds of weightlessness. If you watch closely, you can point out periods during the OK Go video where the band members are experiencing hypergravity, meaning the plane was beginning to accelerate up the curve of the wave.Parabolic airplanes date back to theMercury program when NASA used this flight strategy to prepare astronauts for the feeling for weightlessness. Oftentimes, passengers would feel disoriented from repeatedly experiencing periods of feeling extremely heavy and then feeling weightless. Because of this,the first NASA parabolic planewasdubbed the Vomit Comet.For many years, university students were able to apply to fly on this type of aircraft through NASAs Reduced Gravity Education Flight Program. NASA received funding to provide parabolic flights andenable students toconduct microgravity experiments.Unfortunately, in2014, that program ended.However, if you have $5,000 you can buy your way to a weightless experience. The Zero Gravity Corporation, which uses a Boeing 727-200 aircraft,offers parabolic flightsin Florida, Nevada, and California.