
Jake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.With so much happening in the African tech market these days, its hard to keep track. Heres a handy guide well try to put out every month on the biggest news in one of techs most exciting (and earliest) emerging markets.The big story in January was Netflixs Africa entry. CEO Reed Hastings turned the switch on for the entire continent at the companys CES global expansion announcement. This surprised Africas existing VOD providers and much of the continent, as pre-announcement chatter only signaled South Africa would make Netflixs new coverage map.We dug into the expansion in this feature, with a briefer on Africas fairly nascent VOD market and input from Netflix and African digital entertainments platforms IROKOtv, Buni.tv, et al. Though Netflixs entry could have long term impact on Africas IT ecosystem, its limited local content and Africas broadband woes could make Netflix much more a luxury good than disruptor to African VOD in the short term.Moving to homegrown African tech, the continents first unicorn could be Nigerian fintech firm Interswitch in 2016. Sources confirmed to TechCrunch the Helios backed company is likely to launch on the LSE north of $1 billion in Q3 or Q4. CEO Mitchell Elegbe would not confirm or deny the 2016 IPO, but did tell TechCrunch the company is considering a public listing.Elegbe also said the windfall from such an event could fund the firms further Africa expansion, heating up competition in other digital payments markets. Through an acquisition Interswitch recently launched its Quickteller payment app in Kenya, placing itself in the backyard of Safaricoms M-PESA, Africas most successful mobile money platform.Shifting back to VOD, Nigerias IROKOtv didnt wait long to issue a game on response to Netflixs entry on the continent. Two weeks after the Netflix Africa news IROKO CEO Jason Njoku announced his startup had closed a $19 million investment deal with Swedish fund Kinnevik and French cable company Canal+.IROKOtv will divvy the funds up across business and technology development and funding new Nollywood content, as detailed here. By the way, Nollywood is Nigerias film industry, the most popular in Africa and second largest in the world by volume. However, its profitability and production quality have been hampered by distribution and monetization issues (i.e., massive dvd pirating) that VOD could solve.Kenyan startup BRCK, which makes the BRCK wifi device, secured $3 million in funding from supporters Jean and Steve Case and the Ted Organization, as covered by CNN. The BRCK solar-powered gadget provides 4G internet and electricity for up to 20 connections.Speaking to BRCK CEO Erik Hersman this week, he played down CNNs suggestive headline that the company was in a race [with Facebook] to connect Africa, underscoring BRCK is designed for internet deadspots anywhere in the world, including the U.S. He also reminded me of BRCKs slogan, If it works in Africa, it will work anywhere.which is telltale for African techs ability to find local innovation adapting to local problems. If you just starting following Africas tech scene and arent familiar with Erik Hersman you will be. He is behind a growing number of African IT ventures: Nairobis iHub incubator, Ushahidi, BRCK, Savannah Fund, and recently launched design and protyping lab, Gearbox.Uber in Africa showed signs it will adapt its model to local needs. Techcabal reported the company has rolled out a cash payment option in Nigeria, where many consumers are still attached to hard currency. For Nigerians privy to digital payments, Uber also announced a partnership with fintech firm Paga to pay using local debit cards. This is supposed to ease the FX volatility Nigerian passengers face when using cards in Uber cars.Even after its adaptive do-gooding in Africa, Uber still cant get away from controversy. This months local taxi driver opposition to Uber didnt come from yellow cabbies in NYC, it was from Nairobi taxi operators, who are threatening attacks on Uber partners due to the companys Kenyan pricing model, as reported in Business Daily Africa.More African Stories @TechCrunchMore Around the Net