For years, Chris Farmer worked as a venture partner at General Catalyst Partners, helping develop its then-nascent seed-investing program while simultaneously working on a big idea: a database that could help screen engineering talent.Today, that idea forms the basis of SignalFire, a San Francisco-based investment firm that Farmer, who is its sole general partner, calls the most quantitative fund in the world. He says to think of us as the worlds most elite angel group, with a central institutional fund, built on top of a mini proprietary Google.It all sounds pretty audacious, of course, but theres somethere there, as we saw first-hand during a demonstration last week.According to Farmer, SignalFires platform, Beacon, tracks more than half a trillion data points that it collects from two million data sources, from patents to academics publications to open source contributions to financial filings.As a result, SignalFire is able to keep close tabs on the comings and goings of millions ofengineers around the globe. Andthats just one piece of the picture. SignalFire also invests heavily in unstructured data, including raw consumer transactions that allow Beacon to see where consumers are spending their time and moneyand which companies and sectors are growing or not.Says Farmer of the platform, which has been six years in the making altogether:Because these are unstructured data sources, the challenge is to de-duplicate things, normalize them, separate out names that are exactly the same, connect handles to people . . . weve made everything auditable down to every detail. Weve been synthesizing the dashboards that the management would want to see of every startup.The assemblagewas enough to convinceSignalFires anchor investor, Horsley Bridge, a highly regarded San Francisco fund of funds firm. Itsigned up for half the fund in 36 hours from its launch, says Farmer. (Horsley Bridge furthersang SignalFires praises to the Wall Street Journal recently, which is unusual for the typically private firm.)SignalFire has also enlisted 50 other limited partners in the tech-ecosystem who have open access to the platform and in exchange serve as on-demand advisors to its portfolio companies.Among the big wheels involvedare Alt School founder and CEO Max Ventilla; Pinterests general manager of monetization, Tim Kendall; Slack founder and CEO Stewart Butterfield; and Factual founder and CEO Gil Elbaz.Another investor-advisor, Code.org cofounder Ali Partovi, calls Beacona game-changer for assessing tech investments. He sayshed compare it to GPS navigation. While theres no substitute for using your own sense of direction, its indispensable, especially when you venture into new areas.Theres no VC anywhere that has close to this fire power, insistsFarmer.One question is what Farmer will do with all of it.Last year,SignalFire closed a $53 million fund, which it has used to back eight companies so far. Among those bets are the behavior feedback platform ClassDojo; a company called SmartSpot that makes a smart mirror for gyms; Frame.io, a platform for privately uploading, reviewing, and sharing video with others; and MileZero, a company thats building a last-mile delivery logistics cloud to help traditional retailersandnewer startups compete with the likes of e-commerce giantslike Amazon.Yet onesenses that something bigger is in the works. In addition to all its data, SignalFire employs 13 highly accomplished people, most of whom are presumablyexpensive to employ, including Yujin Chung, a managing director and SignalFires head of platform. Chung recently joined Farmer after spending five years as a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, but hed actually helped Farmer begin todevelop Beacon many years agoas aresearcher. (You can click here to read about their other colleagues, all of whom will receive a percentage of the firms profits, says Farmer.)Asked about plans fora largerfund, Farmer declines to discuss the futurein much specificity except to say that, Well probably increase the seed fund some, because weve been able to lead the deals [weve done] and valuations are high, so our portfolio is more concentrated than wed modeled.Thats assuming thatSignalFire can dowhatFarmer says it can.For all the data in the world, no one yet knows whether it can predict futurestartupsuccess.Coulddata have suggested that Travis Kalanick, a UCLA-educated entrepreneur with middling successwould ultimatelylead one of the most valuable private companies in the world? Could ithave predicted that Farmer, who studiedinternational relations at Tufts, would become a venture capitalist?Farmer is used to skeptics. In fact, he suggests thatdisbelief works to his advantage.Asked exactly how he intends to shake up the investing landscape, Farmerpeers into his laptop, real-time data flickering across its screen.Quietly? he says with laugh. Like boiling frogs?