The smoke had barely begun to clear from the horrific attacks in Paris, in a neighborhood where I used to live, before the usual suspects started trying to twist the facts to fit their authoritarian agenda. CIA director John Brennan hoped it would be a wake-up call that will highlight the technical obstacles to gathering intelligence from tech-savvy terrorists, to quote The Atlantic. He was only one of many posturing grandstanders hoping to use the slaughter as a political tool to attack secure encryption.Within hours of the Paris attacks, legions of anonymous intelligence officials rushed to proclaim encryption as the culprit Christopher Hayes (@chrislhayes) November 25, 2015A it turned out, this strategywhich included a darkly ridiculous, if short-lived, attempt to blame terrorism on the PlayStation 4suffered from one slight flaw:Let's recap: Paris attackers were known suspects, didn't use encryption, and boasted in public about their plans. https://t.co/sLs3yEpxmE Kate Crawford (@katecrawford) November 21, 2015And while we are debunking shit that didn't happen, the Paris attackers were using unencrypted cellphones: https://t.co/mnQZohZYAK Laurie Voss (@seldo) November 19, 2015Why, it almost seems like this anti-encryption outrage was a pre-planned responseGiven how poorly recent anti-crypto rhetoric lines up with known facts of the Paris attacks, I assume it was on the shelf & ready to go. matt blaze (@mattblaze) November 22, 2015probably because it was.As they demonize online encryption due to the #ParisAttacks remember this. https://t.co/nNJUNo4FfI | pic.twitter.com/2zHrrXKlJB Michelle Segal (@mhsegal) November 15, 2015Did the facts change the course of the debate? Come on. When does that ever happen?Almost as if people use terrorism to advance their own agendas.  https://t.co/Oz9s2UeM7q Ramez Naam (@ramez) November 20, 2015Post-Paris debate:
1. No evidence attackers used encryptionlet's ban it anyways
2. Attackers not Syrian nor refugeeslet's ban them anyways Trevor Timm (@trevortimm) November 20, 2015Striking how little impact the fact that the Paris attackers were neither Syrian nor refugees is having on the Syrian refugee debate. Matthew Yglesias (@mattyglesias) November 20, 2015Not least because, as ever, most media figures dont understand what theyre talking about when they talk about encryption.When will @nytimes hire a reporter well-versed in computer security, encryption, and hacking? Nat security reporters dont know this area. Adam L. Penenberg (@Penenberg) November 15, 2015The most egregious example of which was this comically awful and ignorant piece in The Telegraphwritten by a speechwriter for UK prime minister David Cameronwho then doubled down on her ignorance by invoking it as a strength:@iucounu So only people with advanced tech knowledge are allowed to write about technology? Even though it's pretty important these days? Clare Foges (@ClareFoges) November 21, 2015Call me crazy, but yes, I do indeed have the nagging sense that people who clearly dont understand technology shouldnt write about it. That might help to avoid this kind of outcome:I fixed that piece in the Telegraph about crypto by colour-coding it for inaccuracy, rhetoric and incompleteness: https://t.co/EIaVuvGSdL Nick Harkaway (@Harkaway) November 24, 2015UK Telegraph takes a bold stance against protecting global infrastructure from cyberattacks and cyberterrorism. https://t.co/rUH9pdkddM Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) November 23, 2015.@rezendi The only good part of Clare Foges' article was the poll at the bottom.  pic.twitter.com/WPEPmzJkA4 Greg Slepak (@taoeffect) November 22, 2015Its not actually important whether or not the Paris attackers didnt use encryption, except that the canned and pre-planned reaction to the attacks shows the disingenuous bad faith of the authoritarians who want back doors and secure golden keys. The important thing is to realize how useless those back doors would be even if they were implemented.Consider the metaphor of TSA luggage locks, which keep your checked bagged secure against everyone who doesnt have either your key or the TSAs master keys. Many back-door golden key advocates think that all they want is the online equivalent. Simple and reasonable enough, right?Wrong. Encryption is simply math. You cannot ban math. You cannot stop math. All you can do is make people perform the calculations themselves, which, in case you havent noticed, is not especially difficult these days. What proponents of mandated back doors are actually asking for is, to extend the TSA luggage-lock metaphor:So @Snowden reveals our government violates the Constitution. Congress fixes part of that. But he's a traitor? https://t.co/vO72DPnQrX Chris Sacca (@sacca) November 28, 2015What actual good would such a program do? That is a very good question indeed. I dont have an answer. I dont believe that one exists. But such a program is exactly what is being proposed by those who want to mandate secure golden keys, i.e. uncontrollable back doors, for online data.