Editors note:Jarno M. Koponen isa designer, humanistandco-founder of media discovery startup Random.His passion is to explore and create audacious human-centered digital experiences.A lot has been written on how algorithms are manipulating this and that in todays Internet. However, there havent been many concrete proposals abouthow to create more human-centered algorithmic solutions. For example, do we need algorithms that are on our side?Digital products are moving from our pockets toour skin and finally inside of us. Today algorithms affect what we see online; tomorrow theyll modify our physical reality at home, in a car or in an urban environment.Through personalization we become parts of algorithmic systems that we dont control. Indeed, there lies a great paradox in the very core of personalization. Contrary to what the concept suggests, we cant actually personally control personalization.We cant control our algorithmic selves. There are several reasons for this.Personalization algorithms are not accessible for an individual. The personalization process isnt transparent or comprehensible. You cant see what affects what, how the algorithms work or how your data is being used. Your interactions and your algorithmic self turn into inaccessible data.Personalization algorithms are used to affect and guide your behavior. Personalization happens because someone else would like to know what you think and do. Because someone else would like to know better than you what you might need now or want next.Personalization algorithms are neither neutral nor objective. Personalization needs to serve first its creators interests. Your personal interest comes second. Theres usually an interest gap between you and the third party thatpaid for the algorithms to prioritize something for you. That gap can lead to conflicting interests and obtrusive personalization.Personalization algorithms dont capture or understand you as a complex individual. Your algorithmic self is scattered. Different digital environments serve different interests (e.g. Amazon versus OkCupid) and thus capture different areas of preferences. Algorithms generalize and simplify. They continuously filter out things that are considered to be irrelevant and useless. In many cases, algorithms use other peoples data to fill in missing bits and pieces. Your algorithmic self is a fragmented digital Frankensteins monster existing in multiple places simultaneously.Today our algorithmic selves are beyond our control. Our agency in digital environments is diminishing. That leaves us very vulnerable. Could this be changed?Is it really helpful to know exactly how personalization algorithms work? Or wouldnt it be more important and powerful to affect them directly?Maybe it would be more practical to have algorithms that would be on our side and in our control  personal algorithms, or algorithmic angels if you will (for a lack of a better word). Theyd be a combination of an aid, guardian and assistant, helping us out in various digital and physical environments.Not clumsy Clippies, clueless Siris, weird Watsons or malevolent HALs but something different. Something more.Something that exists with us by learning from us. A counter-force to balance our algorithmic existence. Here are some examples how an algorithmic angel could serve you:Your intelligent digital guardian protects you from algorithmic manipulation that restricts your personal freedom. An algorithmic guide helps you by pointing out or negating the effects of obtrusive personalization. It reveals and challenges the algorithms that are serving someone elses interests too aggressively.Algorithmic aid exposes you to alternative choices and diverse worldviews. Were cognitively and socially biased beings, vulnerable to algorithmic manipulation. Your angel makes sure that youre not stuck on repeating behavioral loops, filter bubbles or virtual echo-chambers. It creates an adaptive information interface that isfresh and well-aged, relevant and serendipitous.Algorithmic guardians shield you from intrusive surveillance. Your angel makes you either recognizable or anonymous when you choose to be. The guardian alters your appearance according to your wishes so that you can use different services with different sets of personal preferences and identities. Youre able to choose your own appearances and identity.Algorithmic angels give you control over your personal data and improve your online security. Your guardian ensures that you control your own data flows. It helps you to decide who can access your digital trails. Your scattered and fragmented algorithmic self is in your control when needed. Your aid keeps your personal data safe and in your own hands by making sure your backups and passwords are safe. You decide what is remembered and what is forgotten.Additionally, algorithmic angels could ensure that different environments and devices stay in your control. Your future home works the way you want and doesnt turn into another hyper-contextual marketing platform. Angels let you connect or disconnect your various digital devices and wearables. Could such a guardian also help you to keep your digital life in check so that you can find a balance between physical and digital presence?And you can turn your algorithmic angel off. To see how the world around you would change.Our digital angel doesnt need to be intelligent in the same way that we humans are intelligent. It would need to be smart in relation to the environments it inhabits to other algorithms it would encounter. It would be a different kind of intelligence. We do the human thinking, evaluation and choosing. And it would do its machine thinking.The more valuable your algorithmic self becomes and the more dependent you are of various algorithmic systems, the more important it is to have more control over your digitized self. One could say that, in order to remain an autonomous individual, it would be your right to have such an algorithmic angel. Without such a guardian youll be prey to various personalization algorithms and technologies that are beyond your direct control, eating away your personal agency.Who would build such an angel for us?