Weebly is launching the third generation of its product today, which it calls Carbon  CEO David Rusenko described it as the first big step in a new direction.Until now, Weebly has been known as an easy-to-use tool for building websites and online stores. Its been successful too, with 30 million people creating sites on the platform, and 250 million visitors to Weebly sites each month. Rusenko added that the company remains cashflow positive and hasnt spent any of the $35 million Series C that it raised last year.Two-thirds of the companyscustomers identify as entrepreneurs. (Though, hey, that means there are still some non-professional users, like me.) And while Rusenko said that creating their website and store remains the first and biggest technology problem that they face, there are plenty of other challenges, like marketing and customer support and social and fulfillment  all the pieces are just completely separated.With Carbon, its not like were going to build everything, Rusenkosaid. But the updatepositions Weebly as the place where you can log in and find a one-stop shop for running and growing your business.Specifically, Carbon includes an App Center with what Rusenko said are about 40 partner apps to start, tackling some of those other business needs that he was talking about  for example, businesses that need help with shipping can use the Shippo app.The apps can also be integrated with a redesigned dashboard, which Rusenko described it as stats on steroids. Thats because these integrations could allow customers to see all the stats that are relevant to the business  not just website visits, but data from apps like Weeblys customer support service SimpleChat.For quality-control purposes, Rusenko said that any app in the App Center will need to be approved by the Weebly team. However, developers can also take advantage of Weeblys new APIs and build apps for their own use  Rusenko said the APIs allow youto do programmatically anything a user might do. One possibility would be a real estate firm that wants to automatically create a new page on their website whenever theres a new home listing.Pretty much everything else about Weebly has gotten a refresh, too. The drag-and-drop website editor has a new look. And by using Weeblys iOS and Android apps, you can even edit your website from your phone or tablet. Granted, you probably wont want to build an entire website from your phone, but the apps allow you to quicklyupdate your site and make corrections on the fly. And those sites should look better with new themes and a new Theme Editor.Not today, he said. Hes not ruling it out, but I will say that I dont think its super interesting. I think a website is really good for the long tail. Apps are really good if its going to be on the homescreen. For most of our customers, I dont know that it would make sense to have an app.I also pointed out that while Weebly seems to be doing well, Squarespace is the website builder I keep hearing about, whether its through ads on the subway or on my favorite podcasts. Rusenko said Weebly hasnt neglected the marketing side  in fact it recently launched a TV ad campaign. But he also said theres a big emphasis on word-of-mouth growth.I think this is a really, really big space that has been sort of underappreciated, he added.Carbon should be available to all Weebly customers now.