A mobile application called WeMesh wants to make watching videos more of a real-time social experience by allowing you and your friends to watch videos together in perfect sync, while also texting and voice chatting. Today, the app aggregates videos from YouTube, but the plan is to soon expand that selection to include videos from your Facebook News Feed, then other video services like Vimeo and Dailymotion, as well your own videos from your phones photo album.The goal isto expand WeMeshs social video viewing to premium video services, too.The idea for WeMesh comesfrom an unlikely pair: foundersMichael Pazaratz andSaeed Darvish-Kazem werent programmers or app developers by day, but were medical doctors trained in Canada.Pazaratz was studyingnuclear medicine, while Darvish-Kazem trained in cardiology. However, the two had learned to code in high school, they said, and are self-described technology enthusiasts. Plus,Pazaratz notes that nuclear medicine is a fairly technical field, andrequired him to have a strong physics background.But the two initially didnt think to build anapp  they just went in search of something like it on the App Store.We thought this app must exist, explains Pazaratz. We shared videos with each other constantlyand, eventually, wefelt like, wouldnt it be great if we could watch these things together? There must be an app for that, he says. As an outsider to the tech industry, you think there must be an app for everything, because it seems like there is, he adds.After searching through the App Store, though, it appeared that there wasnt an app like the one they wanted available for download. So the two decided to build itthemselves.Of course, Google Hangouts has offered an option for viewing synced YouTube videos for years, but WeMeshs advantage is that its a third-party solution with plans to extend itself beyond YouTube in the near future. That could make it a fun tool for watching videos from places like Facebook, or even videos youve recorded yourself, but havent shared on social media.Today, WeMeshallows for video playback and synchronization across devices, down to under amillisecond.Theapp itself was codedby a team of ex-BlackBerry engineers based in Waterloo, which is where WeMesh is based. The bootstrapped startupis also participating in theGoogle for Entrepreneurs program there.While testing the app with a friend over our cellular connections while sitting together at dinner, the app performed as advertised, though it lagged a bit when navigating through the content due to the connection speeds available through our respective mobile carriers.However, after she would join a video I invited her to, the appwould quickly catch her up right to the part I was viewing on my phone.We were effectively watching the exact same thing at the same time. We could also text and voice chat right from the apps interface.WeMesh today offers a variety of categories from its homescreen, like music videos or those trending on Reddit for example, and you can make your meshes (as these social viewing sessions are called) private toyou and your friends, semi-public (shared with those nearby), or public. Plus, when one video completes, viewers vote on which one to watch next.The ability to keep watching together has led WeMeshto see long engagement times during its early days  the founders say that its thousands of users are spending 20 minutes in the app on average.The app has actually been live on the App Store since earlier in the year, but was still under development  it didnt include all the features described above when it first launched.WeMesh is a free download here.