
Dan Graham is co-founder and CEO of BuildASign.com and co-founder of the incubator Owens Garage and a civic leader in Austin. It is self-evident that ensuring public safety is a citys job. In a sane world, a public official would never choose between reducing sexual assault and reducing drunk driving. Ridesharing policy is increasingly being framed as either/or brinksmanship, presenting a false choice. I reject that polarity, and I urge you to, as well.Austinhas become the latest testing ground in the debate between transportation network companies (TNCs), such asUberandLyft,and city governments. This debate has played out in many cities over the past couple of years, with local governments attempting to ensure proper regulations and safety procedures and TNCs leveraging their value to the community and orchestrating justified public support.First, some background on what is happening inAustinand why it matters. In December,Austin Mayor Steve Adler and the city councilproposed a compromiseamid the heated rhetoric of the TNC regulation debate. Mayor Adler presenteda plan that would provide incentives for drivers to participate in fingerprint-based background checks, while gradually growing the overall percentage of required checks that TNCs must perform over the next two years. As part of the program, the city has agreed to help pay for the fingerprinting and expedite the process for background checks.UberandLyftin turn argue that such checks are redundant, dont enhance safety because they only represent a single moment in time, and create an undue operational burden whose sole purpose is to hamper their growth.UberandLyftdo their own background checks on their drivers, but law enforcement officials tell us that fingerprint background checks would make passengers even safer.As such,UberandLyftinsist they will leaveAustinif the cityrequires fingerprinting. InAustinits impossible to know whether this is a bluff. When Houston mandated fingerprinting,Uberstayed andLyftleft. Other places, including San Jose, Broward County in Florida, and the entire state of Georgia had to back off from fingerprinting to keep ridesharing.Fingerprinting drivers doesnt seem to me like it should be an obstacle. Most drivers, in fact, tell us they would have no problem getting fingerprinted. Its not particularly costly or time-consuming, either.We saw a very productive compromise in this directionlast yearin San Antonio.Uberproved more than willing to incorporate successful fingerprint background checks into their application, as long as the requirement was not mandatory.Unfortunately, adoption on the ground in San Antonio has been stagnant, which is whyAustinisnt willing to simply mirror our neighbor to the south. Voluntary fingerprinting can work, I have come to believe, but only if coupled with certain rewards. It cant just be a hopeful gesture. Incentives have to be well-aligned.Something that many people miss is thatUberandLyfts objection to mandatory fingerprinting is really about their vision for the future in which their technology is used not only to transact ground transportation, but nearly every shareable service imaginable. They want to avoid being regulated as a taxi company, becausein five yearsthey plan to offer dramatically more. Were already seeing experiments like this with UberEATS, for example.Thats a valid consideration for these companies resistance to regulation. From a business standpoint, being locked in (and regulated) as a TNC may seriously complicate future growth in other verticals. Yet right now these companies are TNCs, and of course need to be treated as such.Without a shadow of a doubt, our cities are safer with ridesharing companies because they take drunk drivers off the streets and provide more transportation options. These are not theoretical concerns. BothAustins police chief and the county sheriff say that ridesharing companies dramatically reduce drunk driving.At the same time, the Texas Department of Public Safety and the FBIsay fingerprinting drivers will make passengers safer, and dismissing their analysis is a non-starter for key members of our city council. Their point-of-view is confirmed byAustinPolice Chief Art Acevedo and two studies conducted by CUNY and the city of Houston.In short, both positions are compelling when you put aside your preconceptions, dig into the data, and speak candidly with subject matter experts. As such, I think that we need to say yes to measures that prevent both dangerous driving and physical violence, simultaneously.The question of how local governments regulate business in a sharing economy is of course about more than one company, one industry or one city. The sharing economy is changing business for the better, and howAustincollaborates withUber,Lyftand others could provide a template for how governments can successfully change with it.Getting into a strangers car presents some danger, certainly. How much is hotly debated. Its a very complicated issue. If you want a balanced view of the back-and-forth from a national standpoint,thisAtlantic article is a great start.Read about what hasallegedly happenedhere inAustin, but look also to Boston, Chicago, the District of Columbia, Los Angeles and San Francisco.Thisincident was particularly stunning, not just for the offense itself, nor the assailants felony history, but also the fact the case was ultimately dropped for lack of evidence (though several lawsuits remain).Whats also important to remember is that many violent crimes are not reported.Austinnonprofit Safe Place, whichhelpsvictims of sexual and domestic violence, has emphatically testified before our city council that behind the statistics lie real and recurring risks.The potential costs of the sharing economy are not fun to think about, of course. Is even one rape or assault too much? If you are or know someone who has been affected by such a crime, the answer to that question is immediate and visceral.Im certain that ridesharing brings with it risks that government has a responsibility to guard us against. On this point I am crystal clear. Beyond that, were still figuring things out. We cant reasonably aspire to prevent all crime. And over-regulation has its own, often dire consequences.We, therefore, have a pressing obligation to exhaust ourselves looking for a more intelligent solution, a third way forward beyond the stark, contrasting options that have been offered to-date.Austinis really a proxy for a larger fight, but perhaps the highest-profile battleground yet. This debate is about more thanAustin.Moreover, withUberin class-action limbo in California over independent contractors,Austins new city council learning how to govern on a 10-1 system, and SXSW right around the corner, tensions are running particularly high.Ours is a prototypically free-market state, and one that has softened the ground for Googles Fiber and self-driving cars in recent memory. We intend to be a proving ground for a wide variety of new techniques and technologies, and yet we are grappling like everyone else with thoughtful protections that keep our citizens safe.I think that the national media have seized upon this debate here in Central Texas because we are perceived to be a harbinger of things to come. Our citys brand is also built on progressiveness and forward-thinking; the councils recent vote was emotionally jarring for some, and cognitively dissonant to many.The dilemma is nonetheless unacceptable. No city should have to choose between sexual assault prevention and reducing drunk driving. Each side would have you believe that the others been co-opted by special interests and hell-bent on a game of political chicken. I dont see it that way.We wont be forced into a choice in the way so many others before us have. The mayor is determined to avoid picking a side or a winner between the taxi companies and TNCs. Thats not his job. Rather, our mandate is to design and implement an alternative.And while the pressure cooker is intense, the options currently on the table each aspire to live up to our mantra of what starts here changes the world.As I wrote, the city council recently voted to create safety incentives to increase the number of fingerprinted ridesharing drivers inAustin. Contrary to popular belief, neither the mayors office nor the city council votedUberandLyftout ofAustin.But we do have a very real deadline ofJanuary 28 by which time the specifics of such a plan must be outlined; the ordinance does not yet have provisions for enforcement. We have at least a few weeks to figure out a solution that works for everyone.