Hello, again. Its your Disrupt Hackmasters, Reshma and Jeffery. Weve got the inside scoop on the upcoming workshops and judges, and were passing the informationon to you.First, our API workshops, because knowing is half the battle. The other 99 percent is perspiration.w/ Matt Makai, Developer Evangelistw/ Peter van der Linden, Senior Developer Evangelistw/ Richard diZerega, Principal Software Development Engineer at Microsoftw/ Michael Quinlan, Chief Architectw/ Heath Williams,AppLink Mobile Supervisorw/ Elliot Turner, Director of Alchemy Solutions, IBM WatsonAnd, secondly, our esteemed hackathon judges. If youre in it to win it, youll want to look these veterans of the industry up before the event to see what makes them tick.Co-founder, Thington Inc.Tom Coates is the co-founder of Thington Inc.  focused on new ways to interact with the Internet of Things. Before that he was Head of Product for the Yahoo Brickhouse incubator where he created the Fire Eagle location-sharing platform. Hes also developed new products for many other companies, including the BBC, UpMyStreet, Time Out, and Jawbone.You can find Tom on Twitter @tomcoates.Founder/CEO of CareerCup.com & Author of Cracking the Coding InterviewGayle Laakmann McDowell is the founder/CEO of CareerCup.com and the author of Cracking the Coding Interview, Cracking the PM Interview, and Cracking the Tech Career. As a previous software developer and interviewer for Google, Microsoft, and Apple, she now works with tech companies to improve their hiring process and with startups to coach them through acquisition interviews. She is passionate about solving technical problems and helping build excellent technical teams.You can find Gayle on Twitter @gayle.General Manager and Founder of Health at NerdWalletChristina is a Harvard-trained expert on consumer health, hospital price transparency + health insurance.She founded the Health business at NerdWallet because medical bills are the leading driver of personal bankruptcy in America. Nerdwallet content, award-winning tools and high-touch service empower consumers to live better lives.You can find Christina on Twitter @lamontagne_c.Angel InvestorFounder of Delicious (acquired by Yahoo!) and Tasty Labs (Acquired by Walmart), Joshua is an angel investor in over 100 startups including Etsy, Twilio, Pure Storage, and Makerbot.You can find Joshua on Twitter @joshu.Founder/CEO of ParticleParticle founder and CEO Zach Supalla is an entrepreneur, a designer, and a maker. With Particle, he designs and produces a suite of tools that make it easier for engineers and manufacturers to build and manage connected products. Zach juggles hardware design, front-end software development, and leading his team through the trials and tribulations of a hardware startup. You can find Zach on Twitter @zsupalla.Chief Product and Design Officer, SmuleJeannie Yang is the Chief Product and Design Officer at Smule. She blends her engineering background and passion for music to build new interactions for people worldwide to connect, create, and share music through social mobile music apps like Sing! Karaoke, Magic Piano, Autorap, and I am T-Pain. Prior to Smule, she helped start Yahoos first social media research lab and launched several projects including Fire Eagle, the first geo-location brokering platform, at Yahoo Brickhouse. Jeannie holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and a M.S. in Information from UC Berkeley.You can find Jeannie on Twitter @jeanniey.