An independent review of U.K. surveillance powers conducted by QC David Andersonpublished its findings this week. Among itsrecommendations the report calls for judges to sign off interception warrants, and for a new law to governsurveillance powers  replacing the problematic patchwork of outdated and amended legislation that currently exists with stricter and more coherent oversight.The reportalso supports continued use of bulk data collection (aka mass surveillance) by U.K. intelligence agencies so long asstrict additional safeguards oversee its usage and minimize privacyimpacts.Anderson writes:if the acceptable use of vast state powers is to beguaranteed, it cannot simply be by reference to the probity of its servants, theingenuity of its enemies or current technical limitations on what it can do. Firm limitsmust also be written into law: not merely safeguards, but red lines that may not becrossed.Healso weighs in on encryption, although his recommendations hereare rather more murky. In essence, he is takingthe viewthat more widespread use of strong encryption ultimatelysanctions mass surveillance  and even hacking activities by state agencies  as necessary workarounds to get at information thats otherwise locked out of reach.The 300-page+ report was commissioned by U.K.Prime Minister David Cameron last year in the wake of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdens revelations. Since then Cameron has stepped up his rhetoric in support ofstate surveillance powers, making hawkish pronouncementsarguing for expandedcapabilities to the point where, earlier this year, he appeared to be calling for an effective ban on strongencryption.Are we going to allow a means of communication between people which even in extremis, with a signed warrant from the Home Secretary personally, that we cannot read?No we must not. The first duty of any government is to keep our country and our people safe, said Cameron back in January.Andersonsreview backs Cameronsnotion that encryption shouldnot be an ultimate barrier to security agencies  arguing that the power to intercept a particular communication or track a particular individual needs to exist, although he also qualifies this by saying such apower might only be usablewhere skill or trickerycan provide a way around theobstacle.What that means in practice appears to be a suggestion that surveillance capabilitiesshould allow enough intrusiveness that strongly encrypted data can be got at  or its intelligence inferred  by other ingenious or intrusive means. Not by enforced backdoors, but by what amounts to a patchwork of investigatory workarounds.Government-sanctioned hacking/malware is one mooted option, along with the triangulation offered by data retention powers plusdata-mining of bulkdatasets  which, presumably, expandsthe likelihoodthat encrypted comms can becaught in a less secure form somewhere in the digital haystack. All these tricksy circumventions are offered up as analternative to legislating to deliberately and systematically perforate encryption  i.e. bymandating backdoors bebuilt into encrypted services.Andersonwrites (emphasis mine):There may be all sorts of reasons  not least,secure encryption  why it is not physically possible to intercept a particularcommunication, or track a particular individual. But the power to do so needs to exist,even if it is only usable in cases where skill or trickery can provide a way around theobstacle. Were it to be otherwise, entire channels of communication could be reducedto lawless spaces in which freedom is enjoyed only by the strong, and evil of all kindscan flourish.This does not mean that state access to communications should be made easy. Fewnow contend for a master key to all communications held by the state, for arequirement to hold data locally in unencrypted form, or for a guaranteed facility toinsert back doors into any telecommunications system. Such tools threaten theintegrity of our communications and of the internet itself. Far preferable, on any view,is a law-based system in which encryption keys are handed over (by service providersor by the users themselves) only after properly authorised requests.But in an imperfect world, in which many communications threatening to the UK areconducted over services whose providers do not or cannot comply with such requests,there is a compelling public interest in being able to penetrate any channel ofcommunication, however partially or sporadically. Paedophiles should not be able tooperate on the dark net with guaranteed impunity, and terrorists should not be able torender themselves undetectable simply by selecting an app on which theircommunications history will never be known even to the provider. Hence theargument for permitting ingenious or intrusive techniques (such as bulk data analysisor CNE [computer network exploitation]) which may go some way towards enabling otherwise insuperable obstaclesto be circumvented. Hence, also, the argument for requiring certain data to beretained so that they can be used in piecing together a crime after the event.He notes elsewhere in the report that U.K.Agencies do not look to legislation to give themselves a permanent trump card to unlock encryption, adding: Neither they nor anyone else has made a case to me for encryption to be placed undereffective Government control, as in practice it was before the advent of public keyencryption in the 1990s.Instead, the push from U.K. security agencies appears to befor a multitude ofworkarounds to get at encrypted intel including gaining access to domestic and foreign companies own userdatasetsviacooperation, enforcedby law if needed, from companies abroad as well as in the U.K., which are able toprovide readable interception product.The Agencies seek to address impeded access to communications through their owncryptographic work, the report adds. They will also need to develop new methods of accessing data,for example through increased use of CNE [aka hacking]. They therefore want the capabilities andan appropriate legal framework within which this work can be carried out.Elsewhere in the report Anderson notes that the use of hacking by U.K. security agencies has not beenclearly defined in nationallaw  pointing out that this activity was only recently acknowledged by government, when itpublishedtheDraft Equipment Interference Codein February. Indeed, civil liberties organizations have accused the U.K. government of making under the radar legislative changes to try to retroactivelylegalize state agency hacking activities.Unsurprisingly Anderson recommends that hacking powers be clearly defined within anew oversight framework for state surveillance capabilities. He alsotouches on concerns there may be a need for exceptional safeguards in order for some types of hacking to be used legally  without specifying exactly which methods could warrant theses extra checks and balances.There aresignificant concerns regarding the use of these methods at all, he writes. In particular in relationto encryption, some are of the view that these methods are dangerous for the safetyand security of the users of the internet. Moreover, CNE presents a dizzying array ofpossibilities to the security and intelligence agencies, and while some methods of CNEmay be appropriate, many are of the view that there are others which are so intrusivethat they would require exceptional safeguards for their use to be legal.While the intelligence and security agencies are the only U.K. public bodies currently affordedhacking(and mass surveillance) powers for investigatory purposes, the review notes that the U.K.s National Crime Agency wants additional powers to be considered for domestic police forces including the possible future use by law enforcement of CNE. So, to be clear,U.K.police forces are pushing tobe allowed to use hacking toinvestigate criminal activity.Anderson is specifically not supporting such anexpansion of police powers, but he does suggest that invasive digital investigation techniques are likely to spreadto other government agencies in future.There are still investigatory powers that only the security and intelligence agenciesdeploy: notably, bulk data collection and CNE. I have not suggested that this shouldchange. But as technology develops, bulk data analysis (notably by privatecompanies) becomes a standard feature of everyday life and digital investigationtechniques become more widespread, the trend may prove to be towardsconvergence rather than the reverse, he writes.The report also touches on enforced decryption as aworkaround method for thwarting secure encryption. Anderson saysit was required 76 times in 2013-14, with two convictions over this period for failure to comply. But he notesthe security agencies primary concern with this resort for circumventingencryption is the target may choose to optfor a smaller prison sentence for refusing to hand over their encryption keys thana more serious conviction for criminality based on whatever data they have encrypted. Hence the pushfor security agencies to have something else up their sleeve to workaround encryption.Andersons report is not binding, so it remains to be seen how many of his recommendations will beadopted by the government as it drafts thenew Investigatory Powers Bill, announced in the Queens Speech last month. The draft bill is due to be published this fall.After the reports publication this week, the government said it will carefully consider Andersons recommendations. HoweverHome Secretary Theresa May has alreadysignaled she may reject his proposal to strip ministers power to sign off interception warrants and hand that over to judges. That suggeststhe government is preparingto expand state surveillance capabilities without bracketingadditionalpowers within the strict red lines Anderson believes are necessary in orderto achievean acceptablebalance between state security and individual liberty  pushing theU.K. further out of step with countries such as the U.S. where politicians are now legislating to place limits on domestic spying powers.