
Justin Gray is the founder and CEO of LeadMD.If you think about it, money is a ridiculous concept. Without going into a William Jennings Bryan gold standard history lesson, lets just say the idea that I can hold this thing, this little cloth rectangle of varying denomination, and exchange it for tangible goods and services is, at the very least, a system of belief.How we carry our money, and how weve evolved to think about our money, is an even stranger anthropological phenomenon. For a while, we represented our worth exclusively in a way you could touch  cash. It was finite, and it kept things simple: When Im out, Im out. The rise of plastic in the 1960s made commerce easier, but not simpler: When Im out, I can still keep going. And how much do I really have, anyway?And now, here we are  a wallet-less society, if we so choose. Pay with your phone, pay through an app, pay with an automatic deduction you set up once. And you and probably dont even remember your password to access and cancel. Theres money  your money  flying around in every direction almost every day, and you dont even have to stop and think about it. And youre finewith that.Researchers coined a name for this: Its called the credit card premium.In short, when you dont have cash, you spend more money. It makes perfect sense  parting with a crisp $20 bill is a little more sorrowful than a mindless swipe of a card, even if you tacked on a few more items to raise your total to $25. The majority of consumers think this way, and businesses are foaming at the pocketbook to get in line.We are smack dab in the middle of the culture of convenience. Theres an app for every one of our whims, many with premium features for which we dont think twice about upgrading. Once youve linked up your bank account with Uber, Apple Music or Tinder Plus (dont lie), money is forever in the background, and its all about that sweet, sweet content.To me, this willingness to so easily separate ourselves from our cash (especially in the millennial generation) signals that we value convenience and customer service more highly than ever before. Uber might add a 150 percent surcharge during peak hours, but for the clean car, friendly driver and access to Spotify, Ill happily pay it.Its given whole new meaning to the irritating phrase convenience charge. Now, thanks to innovations like one-click payments on Amazon, I can actually see the convenience in real life, make it personal to me and accept it with no problems.If this sounds like a utopian world where happy consumers are forking over extra nickels and dimes where they never would have in the past, it is  for brands.In this on-demand economy, weve grown accustomed to sharing personal information with our devices in exchange for the ease of transactions. The younger the buyer, the more willing and trusting they are. In 2015, millennials overtook all other generations in terms of size,and each year more and more of those millennial buyers are buying more and more. And that means enormous reserves of data for retailers and marketers who can now serve real-time convenience to the cash-less masses.As companies get a better understanding of what we buy, theyre beginning to map how we buy it. Select Target stores have already installed beaconsthat communicate with shoppers cell phones, using location data to learn about consumer buyer habits that can greatly influence the layout of stores, placement of certain products and staffing management.This type of opt-out technology will have plenty of detractors who view it as invasive, but the same argument could have been made when we started feeding routing numbers into our phones. In fact, Apple Pay, which is quickly emerging as the new standard in commerce, has measures in placeto prevent the type of wide-scale credit card data breach weve seen retailers suffer in the past several decades.The methods of studying consumer behavior may have changed with new technology, but marketers have long gleaned insight from buyers in order to make the shopping experience more convenient. Which, as we know, makes it more lucrative for businesses.I dont think any technology will soon replace credit cards in totality. That shouldnt even be the goal. You can see by the list of Apple Pays early-adopting retailers  McDonalds, Walgreens, Starbucks  that marketers understand how squeezing the most out of small cash transactions and making that upcharge a subconscious decision on the part of the consumer will go a long way.With the help of marketers, technology enables us to feel like winners: the personalized ping when youre one aisle over from a great deal, the promo code to get 20 percent off your next ride, the instant-order barcode scanners. There may be a small price to pay for feeling like a winner, and its probably a couple bucks more than you would have paid in cash.