
Neel Chatterjee is a partner in the Silicon Valley office of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, LLP, specializing in litigating IP cases.Sid Venkatesan is an intellectual property partner at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP and editor of the NorCal IP Blog.Weve witnessed significant upheavals in the patentsystem in the last few years, ranging from asurprisingly active Supreme Courtthat has weighed in onpatentlaw, major legal changes that haveimpacted the validity ofpatentsin litigation (particularlysoftwarepatents) and repeated unsuccessfulattempts at patent reform.As a result, there is a sentiment amongst some lawyers thatpatentprotection is the weakest it has been in a long time. Yet,patentlitigation filings nearly hit anall-time high in 2015.We enter2016with some mixed signals regarding the value ofpatentsfor technology companies. Many are preaching a death of patentrights and are questioning whether to invest inpatents.Willpatentscontinue to be a worthwhile corporate investment? Is the recenttrenda bubble of devaluation that will pop? Weve identified some IP(intellectual property) trendsthat are important for companies planning their IP investments for2016and beyond.There have been two significanttrendsthat have led to the invalidation of many patentsover the last several years, and it will be interesting to see if thesetrendsstart to reverse themselves in2016.The firsttrendis the passage of the America Invents Act (AIA). The AIA made a number of changes to thepatentsystem, including the creation of inter partes review (IPR), post grant review and covered business method review (CBM) proceedings. These proceedings permit a party to request the United StatesPatentand Trademark Office (USPTO)to review the validity of issued patents. IPR and CBM proceedings in particular became highly favored patentlitigation defense strategies because they had a high kill rate for patentclaims, were cheaper than a lawsuit and could be used to stay a pendingpatentlawsuit, reducing attorney fees.At one point, a former Federal Circuit (the appellate court forpatentcases) judge deemed IPRs and CBMs death squads forpatentrights. Accordingly, IPR and CBMs are widely viewed to have shifted the pendulum in favor ofpatentdefendants, driving lower-value patent settlements and generally reducing the offensive value ofpatents.The secondtrendhas been the fallout following the Supreme Courts 2014 decision inAlice Corp. v. CLSBank, which caused reverberations throughout thepatentlandscape by leading to the invalidation of many softwarepatents. TheAlice decision makes clear thatpatentscannot claim abstract concepts without adding anything inventive.The decision has since been applied to invalidate many other softwarepatents, ranging frompatentscovering financial techniques implemented using the Internet, ad-supported Internet content and many other computer-implemented concepts. These validity challenges are currently winning way more often than losing.Alices broad impact has left software companies scratching their heads about how much to invest in software patenting, with at least some startups questioning whether to build a software patent portfolio at all. The IPR and CBMpatentkill rates have only underscored these concerns.However, we believe that a course correction may be on the horizon for2016. Over the last few months, it appears thatpatentplaintiffs have been surviving Alice motions morefrequentlythanin the past perhaps because there is now for plaintiffs to consider before filing suit more developed case law that explains howAliceapplies to patents. Arecent hearing at the Federal Circuit(the appellate court forpatentcases) inMcRO, Inc. v. Bandai Namco Gamessuggests that the Court feels the pendulum has swung too far.In particular, the judges questioning inMcROfocused on whether the district court had overreached in finding that thepatentclaims (which related to synching lip movements of an animated character) were abstract and lacked inventive technical features. Recent data suggest that things are already starting to change.Specifically, the percentage of IPR/CBM challenges the USPTO acceptsis consistently falling, although, when the USPTO decides to review apatent, it is more likely to invalidate thepatent. This means, roughly speaking, that the USPTO is refusing to review validity challenges with increasing frequency.In addition, it is likely that manypatentlitigations that were stayed pending IPR and CBM proceedings in the 2012/2013 timeframe will become un-stayed and resume to trial in district court in2016and 2017 as IPRs/CBMs conclude. A few big patentjury verdicts could quickly change the perception on whetherpatentsare valuable offensive tools.Finally, theUSPTO appears to be more willing to allow the issuance of new software patents based onrevised guidance it issued in July of 2015that provides a number of examples of valid patentsunder theAlicedecision. If more softwarepatentsare allowed, and survive litigation and IPR/CBM proceedings and result in large trial verdicts, we could see a renewed interest inpatent portfolio building by high-tech and software companies.One of the goals of patenting is to create a currency for innovations, permitting inventors and companies to sell their innovation to companies interested in developing that innovation. One of the challenges in implementing this goal is the fact that parties routinely disagree about how much apatentisworth,given the lack of market comparables forpatents.Some companies have tried to set up secondary markets forpatent transactions that, thus far, have not attracted market-wide acceptance. Similarly, while non-practicing entities and operating companies have purchased patent portfolios for offensive and defensive purposes, these transactions tend to be one-off purchases that dont provide that much meaningful data. Thus, patentsremain relatively illiquid assets.That may change with the renewed focus by financial entities in IP as an asset class. For example, Fortress Investment Group, a leading investment management firm that manages traditional funds for alternative assets,has created an investment fund specifically dedicated to undervalued companies with strongpatentpositions. Another financing firm, Gerchen Keller, has announced expanded investment,pushing it to well over $1 billion of assets under management,with which to expand its portfolio of litigation (includingpatentlitigation) financing services.One can reasonably expect that these funds will be aggressive in searching for opportunities to identifypatentsfor assertion and work out financing deals based on the expected value of thosepatents. If these entities are successful and profitable, they may start a wave of financing activity in thepatentsector that could make it easier for companies to value, sell or assert theirpatents. 2016will be a year of experimentation. The lessons learned are still a few years away.Patentreform had a groundswell of support, only to be blocked over the summer by a bipartisan group and lobbying by the pharma/biotech industry. At one point,it appeared that consensus had formed around the goals ofpatentreform, with bipartisan proposals requiring a greater upfront investigation by a plaintiff before bringing a lawsuit (a reaction to patenttrolling tactics involving hastily prepared complaints filed for the purpose of nuisance value settlements), as well as some changes to makepatentlitigation less expensive amongst other more technical changes.Most controversially amongst these measures were provisions that would make it easier for a defendant to recover its attorneys fees after winning apatentlitigation. Following extensive lobbying by the pharmaceutical industry and venture capital industry, however,patentreform stalled out.While the odds of a potentially controversial patentreform bill being passed in the run up to a presidential election seem slim, there still remainssignificant interestamongst many members in the high-tech industry for furtherpatentreform. Thus,patentreform may still be on the radar in Congress in the coming year.