The beauty of content management systems (CMS) like WordPress, Wix, Weebly and others is in the ability to create and build a complete website using just your browser. Designers are given the flexibility to make changes to their websites using simple browser-based tools, which means they dont need to learn desktop tools like Dreamweaver or Photoshop or web programming languages like HTML and CSS.Of course, tools like Photoshop give users a nearly unlimited ability to create, which web-based tools simply havent been able to match very well  at least until very recently. Last year, one of the Disrupt NY Startup Battlefield finalists  PageCloud  launched a web creation tool that combines the flexibility features of the CMS and their most beloved design tools in a single online, web-based platform.PageCloud works like a CMS, runs in the cloud, and includes powerful design editing tools to help users customize and build exactly the site they want. One of PageClouds most advanced features is the drag-and-drop function, which they have taken to a completely different level. Designers can drag favorite elements from other web pages and popular editing tools right into their PageCloud designs in the browser. The company also reported hitting cash-flow break-even before the initial launch of itsproduct. And since their appearance at Disrupt NY, Founder and CEO Craig Fitzpatrick shared that PageCloud had completed a successful pre-order campaign, totaling just under $1.2 million USD in orders at a $99 price point.The company launched November 30, 2015 with 12,000 paying customers in 75 countries and hasnow grown to 14,000 paying customers in 100 countries in just two months, showing revenue growth rate of 20 percent month-over-month since launch. In addition to the rapid growth, they have also made some strategic partnerships, joining forces with Getty Images and Tucows, and theyre in discussions with several other well-known companies about future partnerships. We are certainly looking forward to seeing whatsnextfrom this former Battlefield finalist.And if your company is ready to make the leap, were now accepting Battlefield applications for Disrupt NY 2016.Disrupt takes place May 9-11 at the lovely Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in New York City.If youre not quite ready, or just want to see what companies like PageCloud have in store for this years Battlefield, extra early-bird tickets to the show are also available for the deeply-discounted rate of $1,795 each, and you can visit the ticketing page for more info.Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team atsponsors@techcrunch.com.