It turns out geography is still a thing.Recently, Whittl, a Chicago-based company raised a $3.3 million Series A round of capital. The new monetary event follows a$1.3 million seed round that took place aroundtwo years ago.If you cant see the irony, you havent lived outside of the Valley in some time. Given the generic chop of both Clinkle and Secret, its hard to keep in mind that not every company is desperate to raise ahead of itsproduct, execution and plans. Whittl, as its co-founderMike Zivin told TechCrunch on a phone call, has focusedon its unit economics, and, to repeat myself, proving its model. So the cost to build the firm so far is less than you might have anticipated.Whittl connects consumers to local businesses. Its mobile app wants to help you find serviceslike haircuts, and so forth. According to Zivin, the company was initially focused on providing price lists for a variety of local services, but its customers wanted the firmto complete the wheel and allow them to book appointments from the app. The company subsequently built out the functionality.Unlike a host of other firms that are currently active inside of technology, Whittl has been conservative in its expansion. The firms minor seed raise floated it for two years  the Chicago focus on frugality and revenue still lives, in case you forgot  implying a lower cost structure than we might expect here in the Valley.Zivin told TechCrunch that his firm takes an average 17.5 percent cut of services booked through the platform, but that percentage declines over time  the longer a client uses the app, the less Whittl will deduct for its own coffers. Consider this a material example ofdeprecatedfuture cash flows, but in reverse.I asked the co-founder if the firm was expecting to take up its  admittedly modest  burn, and heagreed, noting a year as a reasonable time-frame for his nextcapital raise. But Zivin repeated his former point that the company aims to be capital efficient. With its new monies, it plans to expand to four new markets this year.In short, the firm thinks that its model that has worked so far in Chicago will convert to other markets. The answer will rest on its execution.