Its heeeere! The Internet of Things, I mean. I just spent several days at the Connected Conference in Paris, which focused on IoT hardware. They built a whole home full of connected devices, showcased the War for the WAN and underscored that the IoT is  as always  not quite what we imagined, and not quite what we hoped.Home and awayThe home was interesting: it boasted smart shutters, speakers, heater, boiler, umbrella, mirror, toothbrush, shower, bed and a scent-driven alarm clock, along with the obvious smart lock, Nest, Dropcam and Echo. Did all of these things actually seem useful? Well, no. But it did reinforce that the Echo is a big deal.As more things in your home (which, lets remember, are still not your things, unless you have root access, which you wont) accumulate membership in your Wi-Fi network, the more cluttered any kind of computer or phone dashboard gets and the more important a single simple interface becomes. The Echo has every chance of becoming the de facto control center for hundreds of millions of homes. No wonder Google (and maybe Apple) are racing to introduce competitors.Tomorrows surveillance todayBut while homes get all the press, the IoT will largely consist of industrial surveillance. I dont necessarily mean that in the scary political way, although theres plenty of that: Global Sensing, for instance, has built neural networks that live on the edges of the network rather than in data centers, which can handle facial and posture recognition at a rate of 480 parsed images/second on a Raspberry Pi. Their admirable intent is to, for instance, identify people stricken by illness, or would-be suicide jumpers, in Paris Metro stations; but they still sound eerily like they could easily become the tools of a police states.Relatedly, of course, the IoT has every chance of becoming a security nightmare  though everyone at the conference was at least talking about security, which offers some hope of salvation.Mostly, though, the IoT is about collecting industrial data on an industrial scale. Tracking vibrations in buildings to measure their stability. Tracking smells via adsorption, courtesy of the very cool Aryballe Technologies tech. Tracking noises, lights, moisture, toxins. And then making this data available despite the physical restrictions of battery power and radio networks.The war for the WANSpeaking of networks: Did you know there is a three-way war on to be the Wide Area Network of the IoT? Choose your allegiance: Sigfox, LoRa, or NB-IOT! I was especially impressed by SigFox. NB-IOT is a standard that existing wireless carriers claim theyll implement any year now. LoRa is a loose open alliance, in the sense that it has a single manufacturer (Semtech.)Sigfox, though, is a really interesting company. Their ambitious objective  a level of ambition which is all too rare in France  is to become a bona fide global utility. They want to create a vast radio network that anyone anywhere can use for IoT data, for the low price of one euro per device per year.Sigfoxs bandwidth is extremely limited  12 bytes per message; an example of 140 messages/day was cited  but that suffices for most sensors, and its extremely low power. We were shown a small GPS tracker that can last for an entire month, and a moisture sensor with an expected battery lifetime of two years.Like LoRa, they use unlicensed ISM bandwidth, which makes rollouts much easier. Theyre only now expanding into the U.S., but they expect to cover the 100 largest U.S. cities by the end of this year.The best thing about Sigfox is its simplicity. Take a device, pay the euro, plant the device anywhere within range and Sigfox will handle capturing its sensor data and forwarding it to your cloud servers. (And/or sending messages back; its a two-way service.) Like Amazon, it doesnt just want to be a company, it wants to become a utility.And, of course, with the advent of wide-area low-power networks like this, the new limiting factor for the Internet of Things becomes the sensors, not the networks. Interesting times indeed.1Full disclosure: This trip to France to visit the French tech scene was paid for by Business France, a tentacle of the French government. Studies show that this inevitably subconsciously biases me in their favor. (Although, interestingly, the bias effect seems to be substantially larger for small gifts than large ones.)