Apple is finally throwing its money around to help Apple Music win. Singer Pharrell today announced that his new single Freedom will be available exclusively on Apple Music the day of its launch, June 30th.Pharrell tweeted and Facebook posted a teaser still image and 15-second preview of the song, something Apple Musics Connect feature is will likely allow users to do to quickly promote their content in a way that ties back to where they can monetize.Freedom. June 30th @AppleMusic
https://t.co/82MceAkbRe Pharrell Williams (@Pharrell) June 23, 2015Pharrell almost surely didnt give Apple his single out of the kindness of his Happy heart. Music exclusives cost money, or at least guaranteed promotion that will make the artist money.Bloomberg Businessweek had reported that Apple was in talks to score exclusives from top name artists back in April, but none were announced onstage at WWDC alongside the reveal of Apple Music. Now its clear that exclusive content is a strategy for Apple.Apple Music needs content to distinguish itself from long-standing competitors like Spotify that offer a similar catalogue and functionality at the same price point. First off, it cant be missing huge swaths of it. The companys plan to not pay royalties during Apple Musics three-month free trial led to boycotts by indie bands managed by Beggars Group, and a public shaming by Taylor Swift. Apple since retreated, saying it will pay royalties during the free trial. Now Billboard reports that move has convinced independent label collectives Beggars Group and Merlin Music tosign on with Apple Music.Exclusive content done right could draw users into Apple Musics three-month trial. If they dont cancel, theyll become paying subscribers automatically. Jay-Zs Tidal streaming service tried to dangle exclusives to get people to sign up, but its had very few actual must-hear songs released solely on its app.Getting in bed with Applemakes sense for the artists, as well. Pharrell will surely get tons of promo on Apple Musics New and For You sections, and plays on its radio service BeatsOne.But its also lucrative long-term. Artists want a following on Apple Music as its a powerful channel for connecting fans straight to purchases, not just low royalty streams. If Pharrell can get a bunch of people to follow him on Apple Music from the Freedom exclusive, those fans will be shown his album when it comes out, and could be shown Pharrell merchandise and concert tickets they can buy that really earn artists money.Now the question is just how much Apple will pay or promise to get more exclusives lined up for the June 30 launch.