
Nicola Corzine is the executive director of the Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center.InSilicon Valleys Unchecked Arrogance, Ross Baird (Executive Director of Village Capital) and Lenny Mendonca (Director Emeritus at McKinsey) boldly ask an important question thats becoming a white elephant in the Silicon Valley pitch room: How can we enable great people, regardless of zip code, to solve messy societal problems?To get to an answer, as investigative journalists would say, we need to follow the money. Baird and Mendonca ask, How do we change ownership structures to prevent Snapchat, Instagram, and WhatsApp from distributing billion-dollar windfalls among only a couple dozen people?Perhaps we need to go further back before the big valuations  to the inception phase of a startup, and ask the question: Why are startups seekingventure capital rather than other types of funding?Lets start by saying that venture capital is, of course, an essential component of a flourishing entrepreneurial ecosystem, giving companies the means to grow exponentially over a short period of time. But here in Silicon Valley, weve propagated the myth that value (i.e. market cap) and success (i.e. exit) can only be tied to venture-backed startups. We espouse that more venture money needs to flow to more businesses  full stop.But this philosophy is inherently flawed. If we want our brightest minds to tackle societys biggest problems, we need to move away from the notion that being venture-backed is the only way to build a successful company.This is partially because venture capital has its limits. Its almost exclusively available in cities like San Francisco, New York and Boston. As Baird and Mendonca note, 78% of investment in startups goes to three states (New York, Massachusetts, California). While in the past 20 years startup investing has increased 300% in those states, it has actually declined in the other 47 across the country. As a result, entrepreneurs inherently become geographically siloed from problems that need solving in the rest of the country.And perhaps more importantly, being venture-backed often encourages entrepreneurs to chase disconnected valuations and single paths of growth strategy that may not be in the best interests of the founders, their businesses or the industry overall.It doesnt have to be this way. What if entrepreneurs were told that success is actually determined by how you define it? Being venture-backable implies certain characteristics: a $1 billion-plus market, exponential growth, spending excess capital and having a strategy for a major liquidity event within a predefined time frame.But what if success means retaining ownership because you want the opportunity to learn and grow as a CEO or executive? What if its a win to design a lifestyle cash-flowing company, rather than one set by a funds lifecycle? And what if youre excited to build an important feature or set of features  that many, many customers will buy  but you may not have a platform and youre probably not working on the industry flavor of the day?Lets flip this around and imagine, instead, the opportunity that NOT being venture-backed actually offers entrepreneurs. Couldnt we make the argument that founders gain greater credibility than their counterparts pitching all day and night, because they were able to bootstrap and gain greater freedom?What if those who opted out, and somehow still made it, shone above the hopeful waiting to be named a potential $1 billion-plus fledgling? The sad thing is, in the weeks and months following the next downturn, well tout the old remember when articles that showcase their favorite examples of companies that succeeded in spite of the downturn and venture drought. Somehow it seems history must repeat itself each cycle, because we forget that raising venture isnt a badge of honor in and of itself.We always used to say that the magic of raising capital lies in getting to a quick yes or no. The reason? Fundraising is a full-time jobso is building a business. So what if understanding that opting out of the VC-hopeful race could save you six months of painstakingly being told no and hundreds of false-starts chasing a path absent of conviction? That would be:As a seasoned early-stage investor, I know this isnt the way things work. Its not typical. Its not the preferred fairy tale weve come to love. But I cant help but wonder what would happen if success was measured by more than what a venture tale alone can ever tell.What I can do, however, is help fledgling companies think outside the VC box and ask what kind of funding is fundamentally right for them, as founders, for their businesses to thrive. Not being venture-backed doesnt mean your company is doomed to fail. On the contrary, some of todays greatest business successes were established using some of these alternative funding methods:How do we encourage entrepreneurs, regardless of their zip code, to tackle some of societys biggest problems? By changing our one-size-fits all approach to fundraising and success.In Silicon Valley, its easy to lose sight of the fact that not all startups are or should be rapid-growth tech companies destined for unicorn status. Theyre also creative businesses, lifestyle businesses and social businesses that are daring to solve the kinds of complicated problems that lend themselves to slower growth. Theyre the businesses that are critical to the long-term success of our nation, communities and families.