Wallapop, so far, has reportedly raised a ton of money. But despite that,Wallapop CEO Agustin Gomez doesnt want to talk about it because he thinks its a distraction.Gomez spoke on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt London 2015.A long time ago we thought there was no upside to talking about fundraising, we never comment, we keep a very low profile, Gomez said. This is a personal point of view, the only ones interested in how much money we have in the bank are our competitors. I dont see any upsideabout talking about financial raising. We focus our communicationsand PRin topics that are interesting.Thats not all that surprising. Wallapop has kept a very low profile, though it has continued to grow and expand internationally. Gomez confirmed that Wallapop had most recently acquiredSell It, a company based out of New York, to build a team in the United States. When asked how many people had heard of, or even used, Wallapop at TechCrunch Disrupt London 2015, there was hardly a hand raised in the crowd.And itsa far cry from many startups in Silicon Valley and otherwise, which are often shouting from the mountain tops about how much money theyve raised. With the amount of money Wallapop has raised, its reasonable to think that its well on its way to unicorn status (if its not already there).So theres also the valuation question, which Gomez doesnt think is worth talking about.Wallapop is a second-hand marketplace application where anyone can post goods they want to sell. The service then connects the buyers and sellers in the real world where they can complete the transaction. In fact, Wallapop was partially built to encourage those in-person meetings, Gomez said.In terms of where the money was going, Gomez was a little more candid: marketing. The company runs a lot of TV campaigns, he said  which is a medium that he encouraged companies to continue looking at for mainstream audiences. The company has very low operational expenses with just 80 employees, Gomez said on stage.Weve learned a lot about how to combine traditional TV marketing channels with a huge digital strategy, Gomez said. Wallapop is really TV driven. TV still works.Still, that doesnt mean Wallapop isnt experimenting with other kinds of marketing campaigns.At one point, Wallapop ran a sort of experiment where users could list themselves for dating purposes. But even jokes like that can go a little awry with some runaway success.We like to do these kinds of crazy experiments in order to destroy our business, Gomez said. It was really funny, that was too much success  we had to cut it down.