Last week Apple co-founder and general all-round-nice-guy Steve Wozniak made headlinesviaa Reddit AMA in which he was quoted as criticizingthe Apple Watch for taking the company into the jewelry market.Typed Woz:I worry a little bit about  I mean I love my Apple Watch, but  its taken us into a jewelry market where youre going to buy a watch between $500 or $1100 based on how important you think you are as a person. The only difference is the band in all those watches. Twenty watches from $500 to $1100. The bands the only difference? Well this isnt the company that Apple was originally, or the company that really changed the world a lot. So it might be moving, but youve got to follow, you know. Youve got to follow the paths of where the markets are.This week Apple made a few headlines of its own, including itsannouncement of a$50 price cut ofsaidsmartwatch. The new entry level price for picking up Apples wearable is $299, for the smaller sized Sports model.Does that price drop mean Apple has realizedit has an expensive dud on its hands and is desperately trying to entice buyers to think otherwise? In a word, no.The Apple Watch remainsthe category leader in the smartwatch space. And while the long-term sustainabilityof lifestyle wearables (if I can call them that) remains a matter for debate at this still-nascent stage, its fair to say anearly price-cut for an Apple deviceis not unexpected, given the companys past pricing strategies.Its also smart business if youmake money off selling an interconnected ecosystem of devices and accessories, as indeed Apple does.On the price-cut front, the original iPod, for example, cost some $400 at launch in fall 2001. In the following years theprice of individual iPod models prettysteadily declined, even as new models launched,enabling Apple to reinstate higher price points for the latest top-of-the-line device. Today you can pick up an iPod nano for ~$150 (or ascreenless shuffle for ~$49) afar cry from the $400 original. And yet these (relatively) cheap and cheerful iPodsare still apparently worth Apples while to make and sell.The original iPhone also had aprice haircut of$200meremonths after launch back in 2007  yet that device wenton to be arip-roaring sales success, andcontinues to be the core engine of Apples business even today. So a price-cut, in and of itself, doesnt tell us very much.Interestingly, though, in the case of the Apple Watch, Apple has not reducedthe prices of the additional Watch bands it sells. So while Applescore wearable is now a little cheaper, the Apple-made Watch accessories are holding steady.CEO Tim Cook yesterday made a point of noting that about athird of Apple Watch usersregularly change their bands. Which means that around a third of itswearable owners have shelled out for (or been gifted) a second (or additional) band  expanding the profit margin Apple can make from thewearables.Appleintroducedanother band yesterday for the entry level Apple Watch; a woven nylon optionthat its also selling separately for $49. Other bands in its range includethe $199 Milanese Loop band; a $449 Link bracelet; a $149 Classic Buckle leather band; a $149 Leather Loop band; and a $249 Modern Buckle option. And when you look at the pricing of those Watch band accessories its pretty clear where the biggest Apple hardware margins are beingmade: accessories.Apple already follows this playbook withcases and dongles, charging frankly eye-watering prices for official connectors, replacement cables, fancy leather iPhone cases or battery-equipped variants, for example.The Apple Watch, then, is a clear bid to open up a whole newspectrumof accessories  Watch bands  that the company can charge premium pricesfor.And the point with these wearable accessories is that people will pay over the odds for personalization.In fact people are far happier to pay for personalization than to fork out a premium for something they probablyreally need butwhich wont be displayed on their person, likea replacementchargercable.After all, personal preference is the fuel of the fashion industry  and its that impulsive commerceApple is seekingto tap into viaits wearable. No wonder the companydubs the Apple Watch its most personal device ever.So while Woz might talkdisparaging about the jewelry market  given his geek pedigree it is entirelyhis right to be dismissive of such fripperies  the chunkyprice-tags on those fancy Apple bracelets should not be sniffed at as a strategy for Cupertinoto eke more mileage out of its hardware business model.A model that its beensuggested couldbe flagging, as the smartphone market saturates, mobile growth rates slow even in massive markets like China and tablet replacement cycles appearstubbornly stuck infar less expeditious orbits.Swappable Watch bands that can snatch thefleet-of-foot whimsy of fashion arent chained half so rigidlyto the strictures of upgradenecessity  and can therefore turn a profit outside the widening upgrade arcs of consumer electronics devices.So, by making the Apple Watch a little cheaper, Apple is playing on the psychology of wearable buyers  by not only urging them to adopt its wearable in the first place, but also implicitly encouraging them to spend a little of what theyve saved on the core device by also purchasingthat more expensive band. Yknow, the one they really, really like.And talking of personal preference, mine is for a pro-privacy consumer electronics company that can afford to takea stand to defend customer data because it makes money off of selling hardware (and, yes, also off of#fashion) vsthe other type of tech giant whose business model apparently demandsthe continualdata-mining of users to power ad-fueled revenue.Seen from that perspective the jewelry market could after all containrather more value and substance for consumer electronics usersthan Wozs sideways glancing assessment of its skin-deep surfacesuggests. Privacy can commandits own fashion-type premium too.