
Aaron LaRue is a consultant in the mortgage industry, specializing in strategy and product management, and writes for MortgageMonks. Home loans are the Holy Grail of online lending. They come with high loan balances, steady returns and hefty fees. Therealso is a healthy liquid market for the securitized loans, and the debt is asset backed, which reduces risk and opens up the investor pool. On top of that, establishment mortgage lenders are not leading the pack with innovation, which means there is a lot of room for improvement.So why cant startups disrupt the mortgage industry?I can already hear you yelling  There are plenty of companies! And there are. But comparatively, even the companies that are doing well and gaining traction still have a ways to go.For instance, Quicken Loans is massive, but they are the exception, not the rule.They have managed to overhaul the lending process in a very innovative way, streamlining and simplifying the process  but they have had issues addressing the next wave of tech-enabled first-time home buyers. Many young, startup size companies wouldnt have survived the backlash Quicken Loans received from their Super Bowl ad.There are other companies doing innovative things, and they are definitely gaining traction  but they are a drop in the bucket compared to the rest of the mortgage market.Lets take a look at some technology companies I think are doing a great job in this space. My data here is limited, but I think it provides some context:Selling home loans is not an easy task; each company should be proud of what theyve accomplished so far. But for a point of comparison, lets look at the top 200 loan officers in the country for 2015:I only point this out to provide some perspective. Every one of these companies offers a fantastic customer experience, has a solid marketing and sales machine and makes use of technology  so why is it they have a hard time outperforming some individual sales agents?I think there are three types of mortgage lenders in this space, and each faces a major issue.Mortgages are a hard product to sell, and with increasing regulation and scrutiny, they are only getting harder. The industry as a whole is also ripe for innovation and disruption. These factors have created three camps when it comes to mortgage companies, and theyre all fighting for market share:The problem is, each of these three camps is missing something critical.Mortgage companies have a hard time innovating. First, its hard to attract and retain the type of talent required to build an innovative market solution. Second, they are not the type of company to raise a large round of venture capital.With an operating business in an established industry vertical, they are valued on a much different metric, and usually have to free up cash flow for any type of investment (like building technology).With constraints on cashand expertise, most mortgage companies are left to piecemeal together an online lending solution. Using third-party providers, they string together a number of platforms in an attempt to cover the required features that the modern borrower has come to expect.The problem is these tools will have to integrate with the legacy systems the mortgage lender is already locked in to. So instead of tackling the entire process, and having to integrate with tons of complex systems, third-party providers focus on a narrow aspect of the experience (like document upload or taking the initial loan application).Each piece of third-party technology will also require its own user accounts, dashboards, verification/security protocols and workflows. This platform overhead only compounds as you add more features, leading to a fragmented and potentially frustrating customer experience.The other two technology-centered camps have the talent and can raise the money. They can build slick tech platforms, create a unified and cohesive customer experience and have the potential to provide market-leading customer service.The problem comes from operations. A scalable mortgage company needs a lot of infrastructure:This is not just a problem for companies coming from the technology side  established mortgage companies can struggle with these things, too.Innovation is great, but without nailing the fundamentals, its hard to scale.When faced with the realities of originating a mortgage, many of these technology companies will pivot. Instead of producing the actual loans, theyll become sales and marketing vehicles that capture the customer, take the applicationthen serve as a broker for an established mortgage company that can do the heavy lifting.If all three options have flaws, whats the answer?I dont think were doomed to live in a world of clunky and frustrating home financing. But I do think there is a large gap in the consensus way of innovating in this space.Ideally, an innovative mortgage company would combine a customer-focused, experience-driven product team with a group of seasoned mortgage professionals. This super-team would come together, surrounded by the infrastructure required to grow andfed with capital to invest in building a platform, and they could fundamentally change the way home loans are done.I think one way to make this happen is through VC or private-equity-backed acquisitions of existing mortgage lenders.Disruptive innovation doesnt require a blank slate. Small mortgage companies, operating on a call center model, already do business without being face-to-face with their customers. Doing business online is the logical next step. They have the financial infrastructure in place and understand the operational requirements to do business. The best part is they might even make some money.A solid product team, backed by venture capital or private equity, could purchase one of these lenders for a reasonable amount of money (Series A-size capital), and at a valuation multiple that is much lower than your everyday technology company.Once in the door, they could overhaul the technological foundation of the company, work to build a better customer experience and add innovative technology thats developed in-house. Instead of encouraging consumerism, they could focus on educating their prospects into beingresponsible home buyers.Launching features rapidly, focusing on the customer and unconstrained by infrastructure, they would be poised for tremendous growth.Hybrid funds like Mithril might also be interested in this type of approach because they focus on large, highly concentrated investments in established companies thatare leveraging tech in some way but arenotnecessarily tech companies.Also, I wouldnt be surprised to see some of the larger players in the space, like SoFi, acquire an existing mortgage lender to beef up their operations, staff up on area experts or eliminate some growing pains.Mortgage companies arent the only area in the financial world that are plagued with legacy systems, complex regulations and the need for robust infrastructure to scale. Could M&A Innovation be the logical extension of this trend?