
Sephi Shapira is the CEO of MassiveImpact.Todays retail economy is focused on acquisition and retention costs. Getting into peoples homes and turning them into long-term brand buyers is the goal, and appliance makers control an untapped resource  the Internet of Things (IoT)  that can effectively extend a brand or retailers supply chain visibility into the home.How will the IoT manifest itself in the home? For many consumer brands and retailers, theres always been one door that holds the key to the $65 billion a monthAmerican households spend onfood: the refrigerator door. For example, at this years CES, Samsung introduced a refrigerator touted as truly smart, with connected cameras inside the fridge, an ability to run Pandora with built-in speakers and even grocery shopping through Amazons Alexa or a new, dedicated app called Groceries by MasterCard.By building smart fridges that can track consumption, deliver offers and manage purchasing and replenishment, manufacturers can extract subsidies from companies in order to tap into data and the revenue stream of each consumer,then provide them with a free refrigerator.Subsidies have long been a tool for both customer lock-in (think of InkJet printers sold at a loss to open the revenue stream for ink) as well as recurring revenue models (such as Verizon trading a $650 iPhone for the chance at triple the revenue in yearly billings). The smart fridge brings both of these models into play.With a connected fridge, advertisers will pay to promote products to the consumer on the refrigerators screen, who will then use a related subscription-based service to buy the products. What makes promotion like this appealing to advertisers is that its data-driven, personalized and proactive.Its the same reason Google acquired Nest and Apple built HomeKit: It puts them inside the consumers house and gives them the ability to be first to market when a need arises. Like Valleywags Sam Biddle tweeted after the Nest acquisition, If your house is burning down youll now get Gmail ads for fire extinguishers.In the same way, imagine receiving a $0.50 coupon for Heinz ketchup just as you toss your empty bottle. Or better yet, what if you got a coupon for a free bottle of Del Monte ketchup? Would you not try it? And what if this happened in hundreds of thousands of homes? Del Monte, by way of example, stands little chance in the battle over supermarket shelf space, but may find a way to challenge Heinzs near 60 percent market dominance by going directly to a consumers fridge.Food is a recurring purchase, with most Americans buying the same brands over and over again. While a bottle of ketchup does not have the lock-in protection of InkJet cartridges, the smart fridge provides a way to keep the purchase cycle going through replenishment reminders and promotions. It will play a central role in ensuring the consumption of the same food brands  or help drive consumers to a competitor.Nothing in this life is free, so how will advertisers and retailers make back the cost of subsidizing these free fridges? By tapping in to years of food purchases via the fridge. There will have to be some manner of contract (just like with cell phone carriers) to ensure users behave as intended and buy what the fridge recommends or buy goods from a certain store. Users will see workflows and behaviors that have been made most famous through Amazon, such as:While the smart fridge brings convenience and new features to consumers, it is also interesting to consider what consumers could provide to brands, retailers and each other through machine learning and artificial intelligence.Look at the success of an app like Waze. Its power comes from the volume of people using the software and making recommendations. You could see the same collective intelligence arise within the smart fridge. What if Del Monte actually does make better ketchup than Heinz, but we just dont know about it? A connected fridge could provide new insights into tastes and preferences, helping bring better product awareness to the public. It can also provide superior consumer intelligence that food and beverage companies could only dream about when trying to understand buying and consumption habits.The idea of a free refrigerator may seem radical today, but its a concept that has proven successful in other industries  and the technology exists to make it work. Ultimately, the consumers are the ones holding the key to the smart fridges future. Are we ready to share the details of every late-night snack, or will the fridge be the line that we draw when it comes to sharing our private information with commercial organizations?