Knowing what to play next is the biggest problem with streaming music services, but most solve discovery with clunky, unfamiliar blog-style tabs youre supposed to browse. Listeners are accustomed to playlists, so Spotifys latest attempt to unlock its catalog is an algorithmically personalized playlist called Discover Weekly. Users will start seeing it soon, and you can preview mine here.Delivered to the top of your playlistlist on web and mobile each Monday, Discover Weekly offers up two hours of songs that other users with similar tastes to you are adding to their own mixes. You dont have to keep browsing for individual tracks to play. Just throw on Discover Weekly and Spotify will keep the beats steady knockin.Playlists are Spotifys best bet for keeping its 75 million listeners and 20 million paying subscribers loyal in the face of Apple Musics invasion of the market. No one wants to abandon their playlists or the listening history that fuels Spotifys personalization to switch services. My mixes are what keep dragging me back while I test Apple Music. The independent Spotify needs all the help it can get to fend of Apple, with its industry connections and massive pre-install base on hundreds of millions of iPhones.I got a chance to preview my Discover Weekly playlist, and was pleasantly surprised by how well it fit into the Spotify experience. Until now, the apps discovery flow has been about its Browse tab, full of new releases, mood and activity-based playlists, charts, and editor-made mixes.The issue is that you cant just hit play on the Browse tab. You have to dig in and find something specific, then pop back out and try again. Thats a lot of work, especially if youre trying to work, work out, commute, or rest. But a playlist can be easily turned on to let your ears do the diciphering of what you like, not your eyes.Spotifys Browse tab cant just be played like Discover WeeklyThats why about a year ago, I recommended that Spotify build a Playfeed. I imagined it combining editors picks, new releases, and personalized suggestions in a constantly updated playlist.Discover Weekly is similar, though its just algorithmic recommendations, and only updated weekly. The company looks at what songs you listen to, finds users who added those tracks to their playlists, and then populates Discovery Weekly with more jams from those same playlists.For better or worse, Spotifys product doesnt just keep growing your Discover Weekly playlist. Instead, it replaces it entirely each week. This makes it urgent (or a chore) to save what you like before it disappears. Personally, Id prefer just one playlist that keeps getting added to, or thats archived somewhere.At least Discovery Weekly is easily accessible, unlike than the Friends Top Tracks playlist Spotify launched last yearbut unfortunately buried in the Browse tabs Charts section.Overall, I found the Discovery Week;y playlist quite adventurous. Mine mostly featured indie bands on the rise  the kind of artists thatd be lucky to score a spot on one of Coachellas smallest stages. Spotify could have made it a bit more comfortable to slip into by including more artists Id already listened to but tracks I hadnt. And it certainly felt like it was made by a computer, not a person. The first song was exceedingly slow, which a human would know to place later in a playlist, not up front.With growing competition from Apple Music, Google Music, YouTube, Tidal, and others, Spotify is relying on personalization to win streaming. While others try to make mainstream services that appeal to casual listeners, Spotifys always been aimed at hardcore music fans. In some ways, Discover Weekly is the exact opposite of Apple Musics one-size-fits-all, human-DJd radio station Beats 1.The question will be whether Spotify can blossom into a service for the average person whos upgrading from buying or stealing MP3s. Discovery mechanics that dont require your constant attention will help, but they cant just be a little better if its going to survive alongside Apple.Spotify needs more ways to get its app out there. Discover Weekly ought to keep loyal users listening, but a more viral feature might be in order. What might really move the needle is if Spotify could get users to build playlists for their friends who havent signed up yet.[Image Credit: LightVsRight]