
Daniel Pianko is managing director of University Ventures, a fund focused on innovation from within higher education.DespiteSiliconValleybillionaires remarkable track record of innovation, it appears they have decided to throw in the towel on higher education. Each year, many donate millions to old-line American colleges and universities that, together, graduate the same number of engineers as we did 25 years ago.STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) jobs will grow by more than 17 percent in the next decade, but an aging STEM workforce and small number of students graduating today with STEM degrees means there are more than 2.5 million unfilled STEM jobs in the U.S. Today, only 18 percent of Computer Science graduates are women. The numbers for underrepresented minorities are even worse.Failure to transform American highereducationmay undo the very building blocks of our nations innovation infrastructure. Instead, todays current generation of entrepreneurs are spending their energy and resources lobbying for band-aid solutions like H-1B visas, when they could be reimagining the current pipeline to address the lack of female and minority engineers in their companies.The results at the top are stark: Of the fifty wealthiestbillionaires inSiliconValley, only one fortune was generated by a woman. At Yahoo!, which is led by one of the highest-profile women in theValley, only about 15 percent of their tech team are female.Yahoo!s data is not remarkable in light of the number of female STEM graduates, but Silicon Valleys response is both cowardly and contrary to their change-the-world spirit. Elon Musks SpaceX has effectively replaced NASA. His sights are now set on a Mars voyage. Ubers frenzied campaign to disrupt the taxi industry has already reachedpresidential proportions.Contrast these efforts to change the world with Facebooks response to diversity concerns: Its clear that we still arent where we want to be. And Peter Thiel is probablySiliconValleys most well-known contributor to the highereducationinnovation discussion by doling out $100K to students who want to drop out of college  not exactly a way to solve oureducationcrisis.The robber barons of the past did not shrink from the daunting task of reforming a university system that was failing to keep up with technological innovation. In fact, the men who built the technology companies of their day  the railroads, ship yards and steel mills  also funded themodern research university.In 1867, Johns Hopkins donated $7 millionto an institution that later bore his name. It was the largest philanthropic bequest in U.S. history. Hopkins disrupted highereducationby combining teaching and research in one institution, something truly radical at the time. Others soon joined the fray, as Andrew Carnegie (Carnegie Mellon University), Leland Stanford (Stanford University) andJohn Rockefeller (University of Chicago)donated their fortunes to establish similar research-based universities.Last centurys wealth creators knew that Harvard and Yale wouldnt adapt to the rapid shift in the technology of their day without competition. As a result, old-line universities were forced to try keep up with upstarts like MIT.The impact of re-deploying highereducationinvestments is not merely hypothetical. Consider the case of the Olin Foundation, which spent decades and millions of dollars in support of existing, old school engineering programs on university campuses. Frustrated by the lack of impact from their donations to traditional universities, Olin trustees threw out the playbook.In 1997, they endowed the Olin College of Engineering with a $450 million gift that enabled a new engineering university to take risks: no tenure, few lectures and a revolutionary concept that taught future engineers how to learn by doing. Within a generation, Olin has become a top-10 engineering college and a model for other engineering programs. Today, Google, Facebook and Twitter recruit from Olin which also happens to be almost 50 percent female.IfSiliconValleys top 50 billionaires earmarked a fraction of their wealth to the creation of new engineering universities, we could build more than 50 new Olin Colleges. We might challenge conventions like tenure, the Carnegie Unit and a monopolistic system of accreditation. Each institution would bear the unique philosophy of their founding benefactors, while sharing some radical innovations: dynamic classrooms that force students to learn while doing and curricula developed in partnership with employers.They would be global in outlook and emphasize the development of core cognitive capabilities that are predictive of successful career trajectories, obliterating the false choice presented by Peters Thiel Fellows.If founding a new engineering university fails to flip their switch,SiliconValleymight consider backing one of the many interesting new private sector disruptors. Minerva, backed by Benchmark, is building an elite, global university that claims to already be more competitive than Harvard, with more than 10,000 applicants for fewer than 200 slots.A panoply of venture-backed highereducationproviders are starting to unbundle the college degree, often with superb results. Students who flock to Galvanizes San Francisco campus to learn computer coding are rewarded with nearly 100 percent job placement rates  and in many areas, almost 50 percent of the students are female.SiliconValleybillionaires are uniquely situated to propel innovation in highereducation, not simply to use their wealth to perpetuate the status quo. Their ingenuity is needed. They should help launch a fleet of next-generation engineering universities, or help fund a new disruptive company that will move the needle on student success.The names that will adorn the great universities and post-secondary providers of tomorrow will be as notable in 150 years as Leland Stanford is to aspiring disruptors today. The question is, whichSiliconValleyvisionaries will have their name on that plaque?