
Anshu Sharma is a venture partner at Storm Ventures. Stackfallacyhas causedmany companies to attempt to capture new markets and fail spectacularly. When you see a database company thinking apps are easy, or a VM company thinking big data is easy  they are suffering from stack fallacy.Stackfallacyis the mistaken belief that it is trivial to build the layer above yours.Comic credit: XKCDMathematicians often believe we can describe the entire natural world in mathematical terms. Hence, all of physics is just applied math. And so on and so forth.In the business world, we have a similar illusion. Database companies believe that SaaS apps are just a database app  this gives them false confidence that they can easily build, compete and win in this new market.As history has shown, Amazon is dominating the cloud IaaS market, even as the technology vendors that build ingredient, lower-layer technologies struggle to compete  VMware is nowhere close to winning against AWS, even though all of AWS runs on virtual machine technology, a core competency of VMware; Oracle has been unable to beat Salesforce in CRM SaaS, despite the fact that Oracle perceives Salesforce to be just a hosted database app. It even runs on their database!Apple continues to successfully integrate vertically down  building chips, programming languages, etc., but again has found it very hard to go up thestackand build those simple apps  things like photo sharing apps and maps.History is full of such examples. IBM thought nothing much of the software layer that ran their PC hardware layer and happily allowed Microsoft to own the OS market.In the 1990s, Larry Ellison saw SAP make gargantuan sums of money selling process automation software (ERP)  to him, ERP was nothing more than a bunch of tables and workflows  so he spenthundreds of millions of dollars trying to own that market, with mixed results. Eventually, Oracle bought its way into the apps market by acquiring PeopleSoft and Siebel.Thestackfallacyis a result of human nature  we (over) value what we know. In real terms, imagine you work for a large database companyand the CEO asks, Can we compete with Intel or SAP? Very few people will imaginethey can build a computer chip just because they can build relational database software, but because of ourfamiliarity with building blocksof the layer up, it is easy to believe you can build the ERP app. After all, we know tables and workflows.The bottleneck for success often is not knowledge of the tools, but lack of understanding of the customer needs. Database engineers know almost nothing about what supply chain software customers want or need. They can hire for that, but it is not a core competency.In a surprising way, it is far easier to innovate down thestackthan up thestack.The reason for this is that you are yourself a natural customer of the lower layers. Apple knew what it wanted from an ideal future microprocessor. It did not have the skills necessary to build it, but the customer needs were well understood. Technical skills can be bought/acquired, whereas it is very hard tobuy a deep understanding of market needs.It is therefore no surprise that Apple had an easier time building semiconductor chips than building Apple Maps.Google is a great example. It owned our email graph andour interest data (search), yet found it very difficult to succeed in what looks like a trivial to build app  social networks.In fact, this is the perfect irony ofstackfallacy. Youcan buildthings higher up thestack. It is just that often it isnot clear what to build.Product management is the art of knowing what to build.Thestackfallacyprovides insights into why companies keep failing at the obvious things  things so close to their reach that they can surely build.The answer may be that the what is 100 times more important than the how.