
Sonny Singh is the chief commercial officer of BitPay. Alberto Vega is the Latin America regional manager for BitPay.The economic prospects for Latin America in 2016 are grim. With political instability in some of the regions largesteconomies, as well as a general slump in prices in oil and other commodities, businesses and consumers are facing a depression and, in the case of Venezuela, economic collapse. The crash of the Chinese stock market has severely hurt the economy, as well  China is the No. 1 commercial partner for several countries in the region.Many Latin Americans are turning to bitcoin as a solution, and the recent crises seem only to have accelerated adoption.Last year, adoption of the digital currency broke records in Latin America. Payment processor BitPay reported a 510 percentgain in merchant transactions in mid-2015, but the most notable growth took place toward the end of last year. Latin American merchant transactions finished the year having grown by a staggering 1,747 percentfrom the beginning of 2015. Other key figures from Brazils bitcoin ecosystem showed bitcoin exchange trades surging by322 percent andbitcoin wallet adoption growing 461.4 percent. Exchange trading in Mexico grew by 600 percentin 2015.In Latin America, the country most known for bitcoin is Argentina. And while Argentina has had the most bitcoinenthusiasts per capita, that may be starting to change. Brazilians and Venezuelans also have good reasons to adoptbitcoin  bitcoin holders in 2015 enjoyed earnings during 2015 that performedmore than400 percentbetter than the Venezuelan Bolivar, more than 92 percentover the Brazilian Real, more than 65 percentover the Mexican Peso and more than 41 percentover the Argentine Peso.The crisis facing Latin American economies did not begin in 2016. Argentina, Venezuela and Brazil ended 2015 with serious economic problems, including huge inflation rates  as high as 275 percentfor Venezuela (63 percentfor 2014), ~30 percentfor Argentina (36.4 percentfor 2014) and 10.4 percentfor Brazil (6.3 percentfor 2014).The problems started in previous years, and administrations are continuing to impact these economies. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicts a 720 percent inflation rate for Venezuela during 2016. The Brazilian economy has entered a recession that, according to the IMF projections, will be the longest since 1930-31. Argentinas Minister of Finance in Argentina predicts a minimum of 25 percent inflation, and analyst projections estimate that 2016 inflation could be as high as 38 percent, with a 30 percentdevaluation of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. dollar.As the crisis deepens in Latin America, some governments are tightening capital controls. The Brazilian government has announced a new tax over the payments sent out of the country (including remittances, tourism expenses and other services) that increases costs to 25 percent (and up to 33 percent). There are other major problems for businesses and consumers making both cross-border and local payments: settlements can take weeks and cost more than 10 percent.Bitcoin has proven to be a solution for many of the problems caused by inflation and subsequent capital controls. And while workers and merchants have turned to bitcoin first as a hedge against devalued local currencies, the technology is beginning to find a number of practical applications as a payment method.While it may seem like an unlikely success, bitcoins growth has a precedent in Latin Americas rapid Internet adoption. While the share of web users in Latin America is still small compared to that of developed countries, the regions e-commerce volume has climbed to nearly $50 billion (~24 percent year-over-year growth). The regions social media users almost quadruple its share of web browser users, showing how important mobile e-commerce and social networks are becoming for the general population.Since 2014, Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp have been the main networks that have benefitted from that growth in Latin America. Latin American users make up 38 percent of WhatsApps user base, while Latin American users make up 20 percent of Facebooks global user base. Argentinians and Brazilians are among the groups that spend more time on social media networks than anyone in the world.As more Latin Americans become used to the freedom and global connection that web technologies like social media provide, bitcoin will continue to be an attractive alternative to payment systems built for a pre-digital world.The election of Argentinas new President Mauricio Macri represents a political shift in Argentina after 12 years of government by the Kirchner family. Macris government has already shown signs of welcome for bitcoin adoption. Macri is dubbed in Argentina as President Facebook because of his social media presence, and it was through his Facebook profile that he talked about his meeting with BitPay investor Sir Richard Branson, naming bitcoin as one of the most interesting activities of the billionaire.Macri was the mayor of Buenos Aires before he became president, and it was during his term that the city government organized the first Bitcoin Forum in Buenos Aires in July 2015. The city has also endorsed the Bitcoin-friendly Buenos Aires initiative announced in Bank Magazine, stating that due to our monetary history and because we rapidly adopt alternatives to the Argentine Peso, we play an important role in bitcoins popularity.The bitcoin buzz in Argentina also hasnt gone unnoticed by local politicians. It was the countrys youngest mayor Martin Yeza who tweeted that his mid-term agenda will include bitcoin implementation and regulatory approval for the popular ridesharing platform Uber.Embracing bitcoin would be a big step forward in the path toward the economic freedom objectives of this government, which has already endedthe cepo capital controls created by the former administration. Macris government has also announced the softening of import-export restrictions, among other important liberalization efforts.While it isnt clear if the Brazilian and Venezuelan governments will respond to bitcoin in the same way, Bitcoin will be front and center in the changes the Argentine government is making to counter the economic crisis.Although bitcoin usage is growing rapidly in Latin America, it still faces several obstacles. E-commerce hasnt yet had the same impact in Latin America as it has had in the larger markets of North America and Europe. While someLatin Americans distrust their own currencies, theyre not all ready to use bitcoin in day-to-day transactions or rely on it as a store of value.Another challenge to adoption is the friction for consumers to buy and sell bitcoin. There are few large bitcoinexchanges or bitcoin wallets in the markets where bitcoin is picking up the most steam, and transferring money to exchanges outside of Latin America is difficult. While Mexican and Brazilian users have a growing base of exchanges with Bitso, MexBT and Volabit (Mexico) and Mercado Bitcoin, FoxBit and Bitcointoyou (Brazil), Argentina and Venezuelas exchange resources are still limited.Latin America stands out as a land of opportunities for bitcoin in 2016. It wont be interest that drives bitcoin adoption but real need, and Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico and Argentina may turn out to be the best countries for pushing bitcoininto the mainstream.