Cat photosaresome of the most popular images on the web today, and encrypted messaging service Wickr is tapping into that, along with one of the classic tricks of the spy trade called steganography, to markits first foray into the wider world of social networking. It has come up with a way to post photos on Facebook without directly sharing the photo on (or with) Facebook itself, by hiding them behind pictures of cutekitties.The Facebook integration is part of anew photo feed that Wickr is addingto itsown messaging app. Wickr was launched last year, marketing itself as an encrypted messaging service,more private than sharing-friendly competitors like Facebook and WhatsApp. Its entry into the market was timely, coming at the same time that people were becoming more aware of how their data was being accessed by government groups like theNSA, as well as getting appropriated for other more commercially-focused uses.Modelled on Instagram, the new photo feedis called the Wickr Timed Feed  shortened to WTF (yes, really), and itlets you post pictures that live in the feed for 24 hours, to up to 151 users.Nico Sell, the CEO and co-founder of Wickr (which has raised nearly $40m in funding), tells me that to date Wickr had 5 million downloads. It sees significant bumps in downloads and usage every time that privacy issues come up in the media  for example, stories about how the UK is considering a way to ban or accessall messaging apps; or when an app like Snapchat gets breached. Nevertheless, she thinks this new service could beWickrs biggest development yet:This is the biggest announcement weve made since starting the company, she says of the product thatlooks very much like Instagram. It will be available on an app update for iOS devices first, coming to other platforms over time.The service works like this: on Wickr, you canshare your photos with up to 151friends by tapping the WTF tab, creating a photo, customizing it, and then choosing where to place the picture (in a specific feed and/or on Facebook).Whenyou cross-post apicture to Facebook, it comes up in Friends feeds as a cat picture.Behind the cat picture is essentially an encoded link through to the photo as presented on Wickr. Those who are your friends on the app can then see the picture. Those who are not are given a prompt to download it. Your Facebook photo feed  and the pictures that Facebook in turn owns  is limited topictures of cats. For now, the service does not work retroactively on older pictures, but Sell says that they are working on it.Why cats? In part, this is a wink to the technology that Wickr is using for the service. Sell tells me that steganographers have focused on hiding information online for years behind two main genres of pictures, those of cats and NSFW, porn pics. For obvious reasons, Wickrchose to focus on the former of these.Moreover, cat picturesare already everywhere, adding to the wallpaper, unassuming effect that Wickr is going for here.Wickr quotes one stat from CBS that in 2013, 15% of all traffic online was cat-related. In 2014, it says that 3.8 million pictures were shared each day  and only 25% of them were of Grumpy Cat, apparently.According to a 2012 Hiroshima University study, looking at cat photos makes people more productive and the cuteness triggers positive emotion  an added bonus! (Who said encrypted apps developers and privacy advocates lacked a sense of humor?)As a mark of just how viral cat stuff can get, Wickr itself posted a video on YouTube a couple of weeks ago to subtly promote its service. With very little effort, Big Data  Dangerous (feat. Joywave) [Big Kitty Version] has already had over 124,000 views.As with the rest of the Wickr service, there are no plans to add in advertising or to charge for this service. There will be most likely other features added down the road that will be charged, Sell says.Cats are more popular, but dogs can be an in-app purchase, Sell says. She also notes that securephotostorage may be another, more likely addition to a list of paid, additional services.Over time the other plan is to integrate with further social networks like Tumblr and Twitter. But first, Wickr will have to see how the integration fares with Facebook. Sell tells me that while Facebook gave the company permission to use its API, she doesnt know how the social network will react when they see howits being used.Were not expeting to get cut off, but even if we do it could work out like the David Cameronnews, she said, referring to the UK Prime Ministers comments on accessing messaging apps. It will just cause more to downloadsfor our app.More to the point, she also thinks this could work in Facebooks favor. Well make Facebook cool again! she exclaims enthusiastically.Notably, the spark of inspiration that got Wickr to create the photo app in the first place came from Sells teenage daughter. Sell was thinking of what kind of service would give her offspring a more private, but also more catchy, Facebook experience. She doesnt use Facebook anymore, Sell says. She uses tumblr. This could bring her and other kidsbackthere.A demo of how the service works below: