
Dan Morehead is CEO of Pantera Capital.In the 14th century, theMedici family used the power of itsnewly invented, double-entry accounting system to build a cross-border banking empire that banks still use today. Now more than 600years later, cross-border payments total more than $22 trillion.These transactions are essential to conducting international business, and increasingly important as global commerce continues to expand  a 14th century process is simply not good enough. Medicis system uses nostro and vostro accounts  in English that translates to ours and yours.The bitcoinledger, a two-column spreadsheet with who owns what, is simply the 21st-century version: 12 million rows  one for each person who ownsbitcoin. The second column shows how many they own and that column totals 14 million bitcoins today. Its a very clear public record of who owns what  one that does not require paying a third party to keep those accounts.The legacy cross-border payment process presents a web of challenges that are nearly impossible to untangle without having one accepted ubiquitous global payment system.A typical international cross-border payment for a small-to-medium-sized business whose payments are typically on the order of $1,000 to $10,000 can take several days and cost up to 5 percent of the total transaction. Lets pull back the curtain on the process.The fees, transaction times, and opacity that is considered business as usual for the legacy cross-border payments system is stifling for business, especially for fast-paced, Internet-age commerce.The good news is the fix is under our noses. Its not a new process for moving money; its a whole new approach: bitcoin. As a payment rail, bitcoinhas the potential to revolutionize cross-border money flows.With bitcoin, there is way to conduct global and secure commerce efficiently. By design, bitcoinis a global and secure payments network, having arguably greater reach and greater security than the legacy payments system or its myriad players. It is much more difficult to establish a bank branch in a remote foreign country than it is to access the Internet.It is much less secure for payment forms to be filled out by several mistake-prone humans as the payment moves from bank to bank than the digital establishment of a worldwide consensus over what cryptographically secure ledger positions are to be swapped.It is much easier to change data values within the bitcoinprotocol (which is indicative of a transfer of bitcoins) than it is to lug a suitcase across borders, send checks over snail mail or wait several days for the correspondent banking industry to grind through.There is no need for middlemen in a bitcoin-enabled cross-border payments world  no need for any additional fees or processing times to move a payment but those inherent to using the bitcoinnetwork. Bitcointransactions are virtually free and virtually instantaneous.Bitcoindoes everything the legacy payments middlemen individually do  better, faster, cheaper. Real-time wires for half the price.In the 1700s, the last of theMedicis dynasty fell. But their once disruptive accounting system is still beingused more than 600 years later. Id say its time for a 21st-century update.