
Aurangzeb Durrani is an ex-professional gamer and has been in the esports industry since 2006. He is currently the manager of international marketing for Kill Ping.The popularity of online gaming and e-sports has taken off like a rocket in 2015, but the production houses that are stoking the industrys engines could become victims of their own success.From the introduction of in-game merchandise to new expansions in the storyline and gameplay of the most popular online game titles, things are hectic, and the gaming industry is looking at a paradigm shift.Behind the scenes, though, theres another major issue thats hamstrung some of the largest companies (like Blizzard, Riot, Valve and Wargaming, etc.): a lag in game connection and server performance brought about by resource constraints on overtaxed hardware.The awesome thing about online gaming and E-sports is that you can compete virtually anytime anywhere. The only limit is the speed of your internet connection. A couple of thousand miles distance and bad internet connections significantly lower the user experience and your possibility to play on an equal playing field, says Ralf Reichert, managing director of Electronic Sports League (ESL). That means the best possible internet connection is critical even for casual gamers and the ISPs fast delivery of gaming traffic. This is the case in some markets; others struggle significantly and therefore hold back the development of online gaming.Everyone wants a smooth game connection, but with the latest changes and new patches, games are putting more demands on players hardware.A solid backbone is required to truly compete at the top levels, says Jason Atkins, a League of Legends e-caster and current employee of Gfinity.Countries like Sweden which have had fiber infrastructure in place for the longest time have a head start over the rest of the developing world which has seemingly lagged behind in improving the existing networks, Atkins says.Looking at whats ahead for the industry, some companies, like Riot, have built their own backbone of servers and infrastructure. Atkins expects others in the industry to follow suit.Games like Diablo and World of Warcraft (Blizzard), League of Legends (Riot), Dota 2 and Counter Strike: Global Offensive (Valve) have received massive numbers of complaints on many official communities, forums and discussion boards. We did some research to figure out the causes of thisissue and found that each game and production house had a different reason to associate with the same issue of high ping and lag.The already hobbling Blizzard, which has been crippled by declining subscriptions for World of Warcraft, has suffered from complaints regarding high ping, disconnections and the incident of DDoS attacks on the launch of Warlords of Draenor (a new expansion of WoW).Blizzard has since been trying to copeand stabilizeserver performance and ping rates for its subscribers, but the efforts havent shown any major positive results as yet. Blizzard organized an event calledPTR Server Slamfor Diablo 3 and askedplayers to help overpopulate the servers to assessserver performance and resolve high ping and lag issues.Riots League of Legends has also been bombarded by a large number of negativereviews and faced the worst of the ping issue globally. The ping rate took such a toll that Riot had to come up with a server optimization plan, which was shared on the website for the players. According to theNA Server Move FAQ, Riot will be moving its game servers to different locations.The problem was so serious for Riot that they had to collaborate with various ISPs in the region to control the high ping problem. As per theNA Server Roadmap, Riot has partnered with multiple ISPs and has requested itsusers toask their ISPs to partnerwith Riot, as well as documenting issues in theLog Gathering Forms.During the qualifiers of The International 2015, two of the professional Dota 2 teams fromKorea, MVP Hot6ix and MVP Phoenix, had to make an expensive trip to Singapore to reduce their high ping and lag during their matches. Even the very first matchonthe second day ofthe tournamentwas brought to a halt bya DDoS attack. The game wasdelayed for three hours due to sudden lag, which shows that even Valves official tournament didnt fare well.Each production house is desperately trying to come up with a reliable and long-term solution. Blizzard and Valve are trying to optimize their servers, whereas Riot is partnering with the ISPs to address the issue, along with optimizing their servers.As the top firms of the gaming industry are expanding their horizons and striving to enhance their user experience, we believe that the time is not far offwhen we might see either a partnership or a separate entity introduced by these organizations within the ISP industry.Riot is aggressively working alongside different ISPs in the U.S. and Canada. In order to survive let alone compete in this aggressive industry other organizations like Valve and Blizzard must come up with a similar sort ofstrategic plan.