Windows 10 has completed a full month in the market following its formal release, meaning that we have new data to parse regarding its in-market performance.There are several figures to consider: Adoption by gamers, a power-user subset; usage share, as measured by StatCounter; and market share from NetMarketShare.GamersSteam, the popular gaming service, tracks the sort of systems that its users employ to play different titles.Windows is, unsurprisingly, far and away the market share leader on Steam, controlling a fat95.76 percent in August. In that month, Windows 10s two versions grew tojust over 17 percent share. That figure was up 13.68 percent compared to Julys figures.The datalooks like this:Also notable in that chart is where Windows 10s new market share is coming from: Windows 8.1 and Windows 7, but more from the former than the latter. Given how much share thetwo operating systems control among gamers, it isnt hard to presume that Windows 10 has a few more months of rapid growth ahead of it among the gaming niche.Summary: Gamers require their machines to functionat a high level. If they adopt Windows 10 quickly, and stay on the operating system, the implication will be thatthe code is sturdy enough for heavy daily use.UsageThe fine folks over at StatCounter released data regarding Windows 10s performance in the market during its first full month, August. Heres the core chart:Most importantly, Windows 10 has beaten the pants off the releaseof Windows 8. Given the disparate quality-at-launch of each operating system, the fact is not surprising. But it does mean that Microsoft, at least, is off to a better start than in its last cycle.That Windows 10 beat Windows 7s usage numbers is also not surprising. As we saw in our prior chart, Windows 10 is pulling heavily from two different pools of users; Windows 8s unpopularity, therefore, is an accelerant for Windows 10.Summary: Using one historical lens, Windows 10 is performing well, and perhaps even strongly, in terms of driving use.Market ShareFinally, classic market share. According to the venerable NetMarketShare, Windows 10s global share of PCs shot from 0.39 percent in July, to 5.21 percent in August. Thats a larger jump than I expected. Microsoft recently disclosed that Windows 10 is currently running on 75 million devices.Of course, if Windows 10 is stealingmarket share, its taking it largely from other Windows versions. AsVentureBeats Emil Protalinski noted in a recent article:Unsurprisingly, Windows 10s predecessors arent doing so well. Windows 8 slipped 0.21 percentage points to 2.56 percent, while Windows 8.1 fell 1.71 points to 11.39 percent. Together, they owned 13.95 percent of the market at the end of August, down from 15.86 percent at the end of July. The duo never even passed the 20 percent market share mark (they peaked at 16.45 percent in May), and with Windows 10 now available, they never will.Summary: A strong start for Windows 10, but pent-up demand doesnt last as a source of kinetic energy. More data in a month will be illustrative.So, thats the latest pulse from Windows 10. What we need now is a whack of data concerning the Microsoft Stores performance on the new platform.