OfferUp, a four-year-old, Bellevue, Washington-based mobile-firstmarketplace thats trying to take on stodgy  albeit stubbornly successful  Craigslist, is making a big media push right now.The reason, in part: so reporters will stop calling to ask how much the company has raised. Recode reported back in March that OfferUp was raising between $60 million and $100 million at a $500 million valuation. It was close, too, according to cofounder and CEO Nick Huzar, who says OfferUp has actually raised three rounds of funding that total $93 million. (Investors include Jackson Square Ventures, T. Rowe Price Associates, Andreessen Horowitz, Coatue Management, Tiger Global Management, Vy Capital, High Line Venture Partners and Allen & Company.)The company also seems eager for everyone to know that its ready for prime time  and that its product is bigger and better than another mobile app company with which it competes, Toronto-based VarageSale, backed by Sequoia Capital, among others. (If all the media should help with its next round of funding, so much the better.)We sat down in San Francisco with Huzar and his cofounder, Arean van Veelen, last week to talk about all. Our chat has been edited for length.TC:People have been trying to suss out your funding situation for months. Why talk with reporters now?NH: When youve been growing as fast as we have, youre pretty focused just on managing that growth. A year ago, we had 15 employees; now we have 67. Our business has grown5x. Weve seen $2.9 billion in transaction on the platform so far this year.TC: How many users do you have, and how often do they return to the platform?NH: We dont talk about registered usersand [monthly active users], but our app has been downloaded more than 12 million times. It ranks aroundthe 51st most-downloaded app, behind all the social games and everything else.TC: Do you enable people to transact using your platform?NH: Closing transactionshappens very similar to Craigslistin cash. We feel there are a lot of opportunities for us to add to and build on that experience, but were not monetizing today as a business.TC: Why not at leastpartnerwith a payments company?NH: A lot is happening in the payment space, and well continue to explore numerousthings. Were chewing on a lot with our investors.TC: One of your competitors, VarageSale, uses volunteer moderators to accept people onto the platform and sort of vouch that they are who they say they are. Whats your model?NH: The way we approach the market from a trust and safety standpoint is very different. Were very focused on getting everyone to use the product, and our focus is on location. Right now, we ask for your drivers license, which you can scan. We also require a connection to a social network like Facebook. We do have moderators, but we use them to guarantee a good user experience and to ensure there arent weapons or things like that on the platform. And theyarent volunteers.TC: VarageSale also prides itself on aTwitter-like feed around items that it says builds interest in them, as well createscommunity.NH: Weve stayed away from that because with open comments, one minute youre chatting about an item, now youre using the platform to chat, and suddenly youve just given away your phone number [for all to see]. We have internal messaging instead. You can reach a seller or buyer directly without having to give out that information. We think one to one versus one to many is [safer].TC: For readers who havent tried OfferUp, how does it work?NH: It centers on where a user is and what the people around are selling. Right now [pulls out phone], I can see roughly where this chair [for sale] is relative to me. I can learn more about who the [seller] is and if I want to make him an offer, I can just message him or I can just accept full price. The seller can then decide whether to sell to me or to other people whove messaged him.TC: How does it work for the seller?NH: On Craiglist, it takes at least 10 minutes to post something for sale. With our app, you take a picture, punch in a category and a price, then decide whether or not to share it with your friends or [more publicly on] the platform, and youre done. You go back to your life, and people start to engage.TC: Do youassign your growth to how easily people can post things?NH: There were always buying through Craigslist, but for a lot of people, selling was just too much work. There was a whole audience of people who werent selling and who are using OfferUp, and thedegree to which weve expanded the market to date is just the tip of the iceberg.TC: You have plans to refine much of what youre doing, as well as to expand internationally.Are you talking again with investors?NH: We get a lot of interest all the time, and when it comes to the funding question, were always entertaining [ideas] and talking with investors.