General Catalyst Partnershas promoted four people on its team. The announcementscome just weeks after the venture firm, which hasofficesin Cambridge, Ma.;New York;and Palo Alto, closed on$845 million in new capital commitments from its investors.Deepak Jeevankumar, who joined the firm almost six years ago, was made a partner in the firms newest funds. Spencer Lazar, who joined the firm three years ago, was made a partner. And Gabe Ling, who has been both a principal and a venture partner at General Catalyst in recent years, is now a partner.General Catalysthas also promoted principal-turned-venture partner Niko Bonatsos to managing director, thanks largely to the wide array ofinteresting deals he has brought to the table in his five years with the firm, including the online real estate investment marketplace RealtyShares;the classroom platform ClassDojo;Paribus, a startup that gets shoppers refunds when a product theyve purchased drops in price;and, most notably,the popular communications companySnapchat. (Bonatsosis also an angel investor in the messaging app Yik Yak and the gift care marketplaceRaise.com.)While talkingwith Bonatsos yesterday about his promotion,we askedhim where hes shopping now. Much to oursurprise, he said hes notmaking a whole lot of bets at the moment.TC: Youve identifiedsome interestingstartupsin your career. Whats your most recent deal?NB: Paribus, inSeptember, with[General Catalyst managing director]Joel Cutler, but Paribus has movedNew York and so Joel [based in Boston] will lead that investmentmoving forward. The other company hasnt announced yet and doesnt want to announce.TC: So two companies in seven months.Thats maybe the average for a VC but it doesnt seem like much.NB: Weve been very active. I see 10 to 15 companies each week. I havent been inspired, though.Were living in an interesting time, but I dont think weve figured out whats coming next. In 2008 and 2009, there was a confluence of accelerants, from Github to smart phones to app stores to Facebook for distribution. Whats the equivalent today? Whatthenext computer platform, the next distribution engine?TC: Youdont think Slack will be thenext big platform, as many people seem to want it to be?NB: Its a fascinating company and a lot of people are using it. I definitely see opportunities for those who want to do productivity or business-related apps. But in the grand scheme, 800,000 [daily active users] is pretty small. [If I were developing]consumer stuff, Id be focused on Facebook, Snapchat or Kik. I wouldnt be doing it on top of Slack.If theycan prove they can make the jump and have regular consumers use it, though, it could be interesting.TC: What aboutSnapchat? Some people think Snapchat has the edge right now; some think it will be gone in five years.NB: Snapchat is TV for the iPhone generation. People use it to entertain themselves and communicate with their besties.Now with Snapchat and why you hear more about it is thatthirtysomething-year-olds are joining. When I joined in2012,no one in my age group was part of it, except for techies who joined but didnt really use it. [That slightly older demographic] has jumped on it now, and theyuse it differently than people in their 20s and teens, and it has to look and feel much more mainstream and have a lot more utility. And most new product features that are coming up next will [probably reflect that].I dont think its going to go away.TC: Which platforms will lose their relevance, in your view?NB: I think Twitter and Instagram are [challenged compared with] Snapchat. If Snapchat gets 100 photos from you every three days,as themost real time and accurate digital representation of the offline world,and [meanwhile]Instagram is cemented as the place where you have to submit the best photo, [it naturally gets less content]. Our lives are pretty boring. Ipost one photo to Instagram every few days and more during Christmas and my birthday.Even if its the best content. Its not enough. Instagram will feel like a museum. Its a numbers game.TC: Sono hints at whats next.NB: Its an interesting time. It doesntmatter if yourea huge companyor a young developer, you dont know who has the edge.I cant wait to see what the next platform will be that will convince people to start experimenting with new stuff.