Fitbit took a wearable activity tracker and built a$6 billion dollarcompany  Sano, a stealthy startup out of San Francisco, wants todo better. Since physical activity is only one element of health, Sano is building a wearable sensor that measures metabolic activity.Powering Sano is $10.25 million in seed funding from Fitbit backer True Ventures and Intel Capital. First Round, Felicis Ventures (also a Fitbit investor), Elevation Capital, Floodgate, and Rock Health participated in the oversubscribed round.Founder Ashwin Pushpala, who has abackground in biomedical engineering, has been working on Sano for three years since he graduatedfrom Rock Healths second accelerator class in June 2012.Since then, Sano has kept the majority of its progress under wraps. Pushpala says that Sanos first product, slated for launch early next year, is a wearable device that continuously monitors blood glucose level in a completely painless manner.Glucose monitoringis not a new concept. Diabetics have to test blood glucose levels many times perday, which means pricking a finger for a drop of blood to push against a test strip. The strip is inserted into a meter, providing the patient with a digital read-out.How exactly a non-invasive blood glucose sensor would work is unclear, and Pushpala isnt disclosing any specifics about Sanos first product.What is clear, though, is that tracking glucose levels can benefit all people, not only those with medical conditions.Glucose is your bodys fuel, and blood glucose level, or the concentration of the glucose molecule, is an indicator of a lot of things  when is the right time to eat, which foods affect you positively, and how much to eat, says Pushpala.For instance, if you eat a huge lunch and your blood sugar spikes, youll have difficulty concentrating and feel a bit sluggish. This probably isnt much of a surprise, but if you were able toquantify the amount of glucose (and which foods) make you feel this way, you couldmake more informedchoicesabout what you put into your body.Our take on the matter isthatcalories might not be the right metric. At the end of the day, calories can come from a bunch of different things  proteins and fats are good for you in certain scenarios, but they do have a lot of calories but the most important measure is the concentration of those things in your body, says Pushpala.The way your body metabolizes food is dependent on a variety of factors, including demographic, age, gender, and weight. As a result, data collected from a bunch of individual responses could theoretically be extrapolated to determine the way certain foods or eating habits will affect similar groups of people.Well figure it out as we have people using the product, but if we have a large enough dataset it potentially could be used as a predict measure. You walk into Chipotle and see whats on the menu, and you can look at howother people of your body type responded to those types of foods before you even make a decision, Pushpala says.Pushpalahad no comment on the price point of Sanos initial product, aside from saying, its a consumer product, meant to be for everyone. The funding will go toward aggressively growing its team of 20to prepare for next years launch.