Comparably, the Glassdoor-like platform for self-reporting employment and compensation data, has released some data around culture at tech companies. Within a couple of weeks of launching, over 2,000 people have submitted data around what its like working at their respective companies in tech, if they believe theyre paid fairly and if theyre satisfied with their equity stake. The platform allows you to sort by location, the stage of company, money raised, years worth of experience and gender.When we talk about the gender pay gap, it gets lumped into one big category, Comparably co-founder and CEO Jason Nazar told me. But I think what is interesting is when you start to see how compensation data and sentiment breaks down by what your job is.Regarding fair pay, 53% of men in operations roles believe theyre paid fairly versus the 36% of women in operations roles. In finance roles, however, a higher percentage of women (58%) than men (47%) believe theyre paid fairly.I couldnt help but raise my left eyebrow at the stats suggesting over 50% of men in tech marketing, admin and finance roles dont believe theyre paid fairly. Is it a matter of feeling entitled or do they have some legitimate reason to think that?Women, on the other hand, have a legitimate reason, based on factual data to believe that theyre not paid fairly. Women make 78 cents for every $1 a man makes. For women of color, thatfigure is even lower. African-American women earn 64 centsfor very $1 a white man makes, and Hispanic women make 56 cents per dollar earned by white men.What would be really interesting is seeing how accurate these fair pay perceptions are with reality.But, before Comparably combines the compensation data with culture and perception data, the company wants to collect more data so that it can attainstatistical significance, Nazar said.However the numbers actually play out,if an employee or set of employees feel a certain a way, its something that needs to be addressed, Nazar said. Otherwise, its going to be a problem.In the near future, Comparably will offer data around other industries, as well as enable people to sort through compensation and culture data by race. Comparably launched earlier this month with $6.5 million in funding from Crosslink Capital, Upfront Ventures, 500 Startups and others.Below is a gallery of culture data Comparably collected around fair pay, having a close friend at work, satisfaction with equity compensation and mentorship at work.