There have been many attempts to updatekeyboards for the digital era and speed up typing by rethinking the antique Qwerty layout. Problem is youre going up againstmuscle memory, and resistance to change the habit of a lifetime. And thats a very hard nutto crack.Still, a plucky Swiss startup has been working ona third way withtheir Wrio keyboard app  just launched on iOS and Android(as a paid download) after a successful crowdfunder last year,followed by a beta test with some 800 testers.Theyre claiming testers were able to speed up their typing by between 20 and 70 per cent vs standard Qwerty layouts using Wrios roomier keyboard.The trick they came up with is to reshape keys from squares to honeycomb-style hexagons which allows individual keys to be a bit larger, thereby, they claim, reducing the likelihood of typos. Theyve also reduced the size of the spacebar  splittingit into two single space keys in the centre of the keyboard. And have deleted thebackspace key entirely. If you want to delete something you swipe from right to leftanywhereacross the keyboard. Faster delete can be performed by a more sustained/slow-drag back swipe. Or a flick will just delete one letter.Other gestures Wrio uses include swiping right and holding torestore deleted text. While swiping up on an individual letter will type a capital version of it, allowing themto ditch shift keys on their keyboard too. Holding down on a letter will summon accents (if there are any), although a feature that supposedly lets you swipe left and right to access different accents (again, if there are any) wasnot working when I tested the iOS app.Elsewhere other keys, such as the globe keyboard toggle key on iOS, have been movedonto the second keyboard screen to save space. Numbers and most symbols are also found here.A few key punctuation symbols remain on the primary keyboard, with eight commonly used symbols packed into two keys. Tapping on either key will serve up the primary symbol; tapping and holding will serve up the secondary symbol; then its an up swipe to reach the third;or up and to the right for thefourth.Theres also a gesture shortcut to an emoji deck: by flicking up on the key that toggles between the primary and secondary keyboard layouts. Here emojis have been grouped into symbols, smilies, animals, places and flags for quick tap access to the type of emoji youre after (although the symbols selection wasnot currently working on iOS).Multiple languagesAs well as focusing on optimizing the keyboard layout to maximize space Wrio has another trick up its sleeve: support for multiple languages. Over time, a personalized user dictionary canbe built up to offer tailored work predictions based on the languages you regularly type.As someone who has ruined their native iOS autocorrection feature by typing a mixture of English and Spanish (and some Spanglish) I can honestly say this feature sounds like a godsend. However, at the time of writing, I was not able to test its claims.Firstly because its not yet launched on iOS (its coming in the next app update in a few weeks, they say). But also because it needs one to two weeks of learning how a user types before it starts autocorrecting. So the jury is out on how effective Wriosmulti-languagecorrections prove. Nice idea for sure  lets see about the execution.At this point they are supporting more than 30 languages, and the app lets you specify a primary language, then a secondary one, and so on.I was able to test basic typing on the Wrio honeycomb, which also supports a few different color themes for user customization. This isstill roughly a Qwerty layout but its not identical so itwill certainly slow you down initially.That said, its not as radically different as some other keyboard layout disruptors so it doesnt feel too immediately alien. If you are willing to be a bit patient aboutretraining your fingertaps you shouldnt find yourself feeling the need to rage quit after five minutes. And thats actually pretty impressive for an attempt to reconfigure Qwerty. Habits of a lifetime die-hard.As for the claims of reducing typos, the keys certainly feel bigger (with the exception of the space bar/keys), so its possible that typing accuracycould be improved over time. But again, thats probably down to yourindividual typing/tapping style. The dual spaced out space keys might also be an acquired taste.Asked aboutthe time required to learn Wrio, the startup says it took about one to two weeks to be as fast as Qwerty in aspeed test theyconducted, and in total about three to four weeks to become noticeably faster.Perhaps the most immediate selling point for Wrio might be an accessibility one  given the more generous letter spacing looks like it mightmake it easier to identify/see individual keys. Which may be useful for people with visual impairment. Along with the ability to change the color of the keyboard.On the privacy front,Wrio says it doesnot harvest any keystroke data. And all user dictionary data is stored locally on the device (and can be deleted by the user). Its also possible to opt out of this feature if you just want to use the tweaked keyboard layout without any autocorrection.The app is currently $3/3 during a discount launch phase, and will be $5 thereafter.