The new iOS and Android app Wyper brings the swipe left-swipe right matchmaking magic of Tinder to car shopping. When I spoke with creator Aaron Rosenthal, the app had only been out of beta and available nationwide for about a week and a half, and there had already been more than 100,000 swipes. We had the Tinder for cars part done a year ago, Rosenthal said, but we had to do better than competition.Wyper pulls from new and used dealership inventories to show you cars that match your search criteria. Then, just like Tinder, you swipe left when you see a car youre not into and swipe right when youd like to hook up with that hatchback. But thats pretty much the only similarity.Its not just swipeability that makes it powerful, said Rosenthal. There are really powerful analytics a click a way. Wyper uses an algorithm to learn what youre interested in beyond your search criteria, which includes price, model, and body type. The more you swipe, the more Wyper learns what you like and what you dont. You can also swipe down to further identify what you dont like, whether thats convertibles or manual transmissions. Then Wyper will stop showing you cars youre not going to be interested in. It also uses swiping data from all users to aggregate cars with social valuethings like popular trim levels and colors.When you do find a car youd like to check out, you can call the dealer or seller through the app, which masks your identity and uses the Wyper 800 number to call anonymously. This cuts down on the creep factor, sure, but anyone who hasever contacted a dealership and then been inundated with calls and emailswill appreciate the middleman.Wypers focus is entirely on the consumer, Rosenthal said. AutoTrader and Cars.com focus on the dealer first, he noted. Unlike most car buying apps, Wyper promises not to allow dealers to pay to put their listings first. But theyre also not going to charge for the app. The best benefit is giving the users as many tools as possible for free and building a communication net for dealers and consumers. He plans on building revenue via that communicationChat, voice, however we allow users to communicateand charging dealers for the privilege of connecting with potential buyers.That connectionis increasingly farther from home, according to Rosenthal. Though the app favors local results, as you keep searching, it can spiral outward to allow you to search nationwide if you want. That way, you can find a car with the perfect custom rims four states away, or a car thats so much cheaper in another market that its worth a few hundred bucks to ship it to your location.We want you tofind the perfect car that you want, Rosenthal said. Dont settle.