Xamarin, the cross-platform development platform Microsoft recently acquired, is holding its annual developer conference today. No developer conference would be complete without a large number of announcements and Xamarin  almost as if to show that the Microsoft acquisition hasnt stalled its momentum  is launching updates to almost all of the core features of its platform today.Indeed, as Xamarins former CEO and co-founder (and now Microsoft employee) Nat Friedman told me, the service has seen its downloads increase massively since the acquisition  and it surely doesnt hurt that Xamarin is now available for free in a Community edition. Friedman says downloads were upthree and a half times in the last two weeks since the company announced its new pricing plan compared to the full month before the announcement.Some of Xamarins launches todaywere previously announced at Microsofts Build conference. Xamarin is open-sourcing its SDKs for Android, iOS and Mac under the MIT license, for example. These SDKs include the command-line tools for building applications, as well as Xamarins cross-platform Xamarin.Forms UI framework.The Xamarin IDE (for Mac), though, will remain closed-source for now. Friedman argues that the companywants to focus its open-source efforts on the runtime side of things and he doesnt expect that an open-source IDE would get all that many contributions.Unsurprisingly, a lot of the new functionality the company announced today is coupled to Microsofts tools, especially Visual Studio. iOS developers who want to code in C#, for example, can nowuse Xamarins iOS Simulatorright from Visual Studio on Windows (though the simulator itself still has to run on a networked Mac and Visual Studio essentially creates a remote connection to it). In addition, Visual Studio/Xamarin users can now deploy apps to iOS devices that are plugged into the Windows machines USB port right from Visual Studio, too.Other new Visual Studio-centric features include the ability to write scripts for running tests on the Xamarin Test Cloud.On the Mac, Xamarin offers its own Xamarin Studio IDE (theres no Visual Studio for OS X, after all). Here, Xamarin is updating the overall look and feel of the application and adding a dark theme (which is great when you code late a night, after all). Xamarin Studio now also uses the open-source Roslyn compiler, which essentially gives Studio the same code-completion capabilities that are currently available in Visual Studio with Intellisense. Also new in Xamarin Studio is enhanced F# support and a deeper integration with MSBuild (the toolset for building applications  not the conference).While Xamarin is mostly a tool for building the application logic for multi-platform apps, the service also offers support for cross-platform user interfaces through the Xamarin.Forms project. That area is getting an update today, too. Developers can now more easily preview what their UIs will look like for example, thanks to a real-time previewer that looks at the code the developer is writing and instantaneously updates the interface accordingly. Xamarin is also adding themes and making it easier for developers to connect data sources to app screens (Friedman tellsme developer should be able to connect their applications to any service that outputs JSON).Xamarins other major service, the Xamarin Test Cloud, is also getting a few new features. Maybe the most interesting of these is the ability to remotely access a specific device to test and debug an application in real-time. Friedman tells me the company already has thousands of phones connected to this service (the service runs your code on an actual phone in a data center, after all, not on an emulator) and plans to open a West Coast data center to add capacity and bring down latency for its West Coast users.Overall, its clear that Xamarin is still going strong and Friedman tells me that he still feels very good about the acquisition. In his view, the acquisition hasnt slowed the team down. We have sustained our momentum  and maybe even increased [it], he told me.