Xiaomi announced today thatit sold over 60 million smartphones in 2014but the Chinese companydidntstop there after itunveiled its newest entry-level phone: the Redmi 2.The companys flagship Mi devices may attract all the attention, but the sub-$150 Redmi family is its biggest seller. Back in July of last year, Xiaomi revealed it had sold 18million Redmi (/Hongmi as it is known in China) phones and 3.56 million Redmi Note phablets. The Redmi aloneaccounted for one-third of total sales at the time.The Redmi2 keeps much of the original models ingredients. It has the same 4.7-inch, 1280 x 720 display, but under the hood theres an upgraded 64-bit Qualcomm 410 quad-core processor. The device sportsan 8-megapixel rear camera, improved 2-megapixel front camera, 1GB RAM and8GB on-device storage. There isnow dual 4G SIM support too.The Redmi 2  which runs Xiaomis own MIUI version of Android  also gives a few more options for color-loving customers. Lime green and powder yellow are thenew additions to the palette.The phone will cost699 CNY, which is around $112, when it goes on sale on January 9. Theres no word on when itwill be released outside of China, but you can be sure that the Redmi 2will make its way to India, Indonesia and Xiaomis other overseas markets soon.The Redmi and Redmi Note were a big focus for Xiaomi in India, where it clocked one million sales in its first five months. Indeed, the Redmi family has particularpotential in price sensitive markets where most consumers cant affordtop of the range phones sinceit out-guns most otherproducts in the sub-$150 price bracket.Mi India: Redmi Note 4G out of stock in 6 secs today! @MiIndiaOfficial @Flipkart pic.twitter.com/OMyuTLB8ld Hugo Barra (@hbarra) December 30, 2014Xiaomi is wasting no time announcingnew products in 2015. In addition to todays unveiling, it plans to launch its newest flagship Mi phone at an event in Beijing on January 15. We can also expect it to begin selling outside of Asia for the first time this year, althoughnot in the U.S..CEO Lei Jun confirmed that Xiaomi is preparing toexpand sales into more countries, and the company just raised $1.1 billion to help further its business, which is already profitable. Turkey, Mexico, Russia and Southeast Asia are thought to be in itsplans.