Increasing thefocus on its nascent payment service,ChinasXiaomihas brought a fingerprint scanner to its range of affordablesmartphones for the first time after it unveiled thethird-generation Redmi Note in Beijing today.The sensor, which is located on the reverse of the Redmi Note 3, isthe most striking feature of the new 5.5-inch phablet, which will retail for 899 RMB ($140)and willinitially debut in China. Also of note, the phone comeswith a metallic body for the first time whileXiaomi has increased the devices battery to a whopping 4000mAh capacity.Under the hood, the phone is powered by aHelio X10 chip from MediaTek. It comes in at 8.65mm thick and, at 164g, is 4g heavier than the previous Redmi Note 2, which was unveiledjust three months ago. The Redmi Note 3 alsoincludes the same13-megapixel front camera andfive-megapixel rear camera as its predecessor.This device is likely to bethe first of many from Xiaomi to geta fingerprint scanner, but its unveiling today marks Xiaomis step into the payments space in a potentially major way. While the sensorcan be used to unlock the phone without a passcode, like those on devices from other companies,thats just the start.Back in July, Xiaomi fully released Mi Wallet, a new feature that goes beyond services like Apple Wallet or Apple Pay toallow payments, bank account management and other financial services for Xiaomi device owners. Now, Xiaomi is widening the base for the mobile payment service that could be an important part of Mi Wallet.The basic Mi Wallet service is available worldwide, but some specific elements  for example mobile payment  are limited to China for now. Given that Xiaomisold 60 million devices last year, and it is aiming to reach 80 million this year, its entry into mobile payments could be hugely significant.(Interestingly, just hours before this launch event, sources leaked Apples plan to launch Apple Pay in China by February. Coincidence? Just maybe.)Xiaomi wasnt quite done there for today, though.The firm also unveiled its second generation tablet, the Mi Pad 2. Now with a full metallic body, like the Redmi Note 3, Xiaomi said the new Mi Pad is 18 percent thinner and 38g lighter than the previous model. Oh, and it comes in a new Champagne Gold color option, too.In more detail, the Mi Pad has shifted over from its previous Nvidia internals, withthegen-two modelpowered by anIntel Atom X5-Z8500 processor with an Intel Atom 64-bit CPU. It has a 7.9-inch display, eight- and five-megapixel cameras on the back and front, and a6190mAh battery. It alsosupportsUSB Type-C port.The Mi Pad 2 is priced at999 RMB (around $155) or 1,299 RMB (around $200) for16GB and 64GB models, respectively. Interesting, the larger 64GBversion will also be available as a Windows 10 device from next month  making it a fairly inexpensive entry point to Microsofts latest operating system.And finally, because good things come in threes sometimes, Xiaomi announced the second generation of its smart air purifier, which first launched in December. Version two is lighter and smaller, the company claimed.We also launch #MiAirPurifier2! It's smaller and lighter but still has a large CADR of 388m3/h. pic.twitter.com/y6fhlxOWuC Mi (@xiaomi) November 24, 2015