Theres been a lot of talk in venture circles lately about signaling risk andseed-stage investments. The gist: When earlier backers are high-profile venture firms, and these firms decide not to participate in a startups next round, ithurts the companysability to raise a Series A round.Althoughthis concern isnt exactly new, recent numbers published by the firm CB Insights suggest that the issue is worth revisiting. According CB Insightssfindings, while 35 percent of all venture-backed, seed-funded companies go on to raise a Series A, a company that counts a respected venture firm among its seed backers has a 51 percent chance of raising a Series A if that firm participates in the round.Thats the good news. The bad: If the venture firm decides not participate in the startups Series A, the companys chances of closing its Series A round drop to 27 percent.The study made us think aboutY Combinator, the popular accelerator program, and its plan for the future. Rightnow, Y Combinator has the best of both worlds. It can make seed-stage investments at scale, for sizable stakes in startups, and not worry in the least about signaling risk:no one expects it to pour more of its capital into follow-on rounds. Its very model is premised on findingandfunneling smart companies to other Series A, B, and C investors.Recently, however, some have speculated thatY Combinator isheading into a future where it is both seed and growth-stage investor. According to a March report from Business Insider, the outfit might raise several billion dollars to make later-stage investments in those of its companies that start hot and stay hot (see Airbnb). A source to The Information estimates that the Y Combinator Continuity Fund (as it is listed in an SEC filing)will be closer to $1 billion in size.Maybe Y Combinator has to go later stage. Maybe its too hard to support theorganization at its current size without owning more of itshome runs, including Airbnb (valued at $24 billion currently) and Twitch, which sold to Amazon last year for $970 million in cash.Still, if Y Combinator uses its war chest to cherry pick deals from its portfolio of graduates oreven if it skips a few stages to invest in a limited number of very, very late stage deals,as TechCrunch sources have suggested might happen, it could create huge signaling risk for the many startups it funds. (Itspossiblethat Y Combinator couldfollow on in every oneof the venture-backed rounds of itsportfolio companies, but the momentit doesnt . . .)Y Combinators big fund could have other consequences. Until now, Y Combinator hasnt had to displace other investors to earn a place ona companys cap table, but if it wants tobecome a growth investor and take significant ownership of particular companies, it willneed to win competitive deals against other firms that want to invest. AndY Combinator may find that many of the investors it counts as friends wont beso friendly when theyre going head-to-head over deals.Investing in later-stage companies is also a different skill set than mentoring seed-stage companies. Although Y Combinator will undoubtedly hire partners who have experience with later-stage deals, Y Combinators DNA is helping companies at the earliest stages figure out who they want to be. Thats not to say the firm cant do both, but presumably it will take time to get right and it would seem to spread the firm thin, no matter how many people are involved.The Information recently suggested if Y Combinator goes later stage, the only shot that VCs will have at competing with it will be to go earlier and earlier themselves.Maybe, though we imagine that top funds dont need to sweat it just yet. Entrepreneurs will continue to want other, experienced voices at the table, especially if those voices are coming from placeslike Sequoia Capital.The Information furthersuggested that Y Combinatormight be more willingto fundmoonshots than other firms. We love that idea, though it does bring to mind Kleiner Perkins, which was at the top of its game when it decided to pursue some moonshots of its own in clean energy. As industry watchers know, that didnt go so well.Wegive Y Combinator credit for thinking about its next moves. Weadmire how much it has changed in the last 17 months under the leadership of Sam Altman. And wedont doubt that whatever Y Combinator has up its sleeve, it will show original thinking.We just hope Y Combinatordoesnt lose sight of its core mission.It doesseem to have things awfully goodright now.