People often misunderstand Y Combinators accelerator, with its broad range of startups that sometimes pivot before launch. Thats in part because YCs president and spokesperson Sam Altman is too busy to tell its stories over and over, and hes more of a techie type than a polished press liaison.So today, Altman handed the spokesperson reins to Justin Kan, one of YCs partners, a multi-time participant in YCs program, and a budding Snapchat star with a flair for public speaking.Basically, Samdoesnt have enough time to talk to all the press Kan tells me. So he said, Justin, you like doing it. You should be YCs spokesperson, and I said Sure.'Kan started Justin.tv and later SocialCam (sold for $60 million), which both went through YC. Justin.tvs video game streaming content was spun off into TwitchTV, which later scored a $970 million acquisition from Amazon. But Kan also had to shut down his on-demand assistant startup Exec after it couldnt make the finances of $20 hired hands work.Both the success and failure give Kan deep credibility with fellow founders who might consider applying to YC. Kan also recently got serious about streaming his life on Snapchat at justinkan, giving a behind-the-scenes view of a high-profile founders life in Silicon Valley.Altman says that Kan connects so well when he speaks to other entrepreneurs that he can both get Y Combinators message out there, while also attracting more applicants to its program.Press dont always comprehend how YCs partners assist its portfolio, and that its admits often pivot before launching at Demo Day. Kans more extroverted style could help clear up YCs story. Kan explains that Today, we write on our blog and just put it out there. I think we could be a little more thoughtful about it.For example, the entirety of Altmans announcement of Kans appointment is Justin Kan is going to be the new spokesman for YC and handle the PR requests we get.You should probably follow him on Snapchat.On a more serious note, Im always impressed with how well-spokenJustinis, and how well he is able to connect with both reporters and founders.Justin Kan, the original lifestreamerThe only reason I have anything more to go by is that Altman mentioned the role change off-hand yesterday at YC Demo Day, and I wrangled Kan for an interview a few minutes later. But now, press should get some deeper looks into how and why Y Combinator is changing.Kan says he wants to highlight the excellent engineering team that makes YCs backend run, and tell the stories of how its partners with different sets of expertise offer guidance to YC startups.One thing that would be really nice to communicate betteris the purpose of YC as we articulate it internally: to create more innovation Kan shares. Whenever I think about what should we be doing, I think about it through that lens. Whether thats funding more companies internationally or investing more broadly insynthetic biology or space companieswe think about it through that lens.What makes Kan special for this role is his self-awareness. Hes not so deep in the weeds of the tech scene that he cant hear his ownclichs. Thats important if YC is going to stay prestigious without seeming out of touch.Kan laughs about his own previous statement, saying It sounds a lot like a commercial. GE funds innovation! But for us its very actionable.Check out our Y Combinator Demo Day coverage from this week:All 60 startups that launched at Y Combinator Winter 16 Demo Day 1The top 7 startups from Y Combinator Winter 16 Demo Day 1Here are the 59 startups from Y Combinator Winter 16 Demo Day 2The top 8 startups from Y Combinator Winter 16 Demo Day 2