Yahoo has been rumored to be working on a revampedmessenger app for a while now, and it looks like that new app may be taking its first step intothe wild. Yahoo has quietly released the next version of its Yahoo Messenger mobile application, which is available under the name Yahoo Livetext  Video Messenger in the Hong Kong iTunes App Store.The app went live earlier this month,and to bring something a little different to the table, it introduces a unique form of video texting thatcombines traditional text messages with video that doesnt include an audio feed. The idea is to offer a more natural form of communication where users can see each others reactions in real-time as they participate in conversations.Contacted for a comment about the app, Yahoo provided this response: Were always experimenting with new product experiences that delight our users. We have nothing further to share at this time, a spokesperson told us, adding his own piece of silent video as punctuation:Yahoohas been working on a replacement foritsmobile messaging application for many years. It scrapped half a dozen versions or so that never emerged from internal testing. But it has also been making some interesting acquisitions to add talent and tech to develop what could become a new messaging product.Last yearsM&A spree includedMessageMe, a team whichwas set to work on internal Yahoo messaging products. And from what we understand Yahoohas also been working to try to poach people from other messaging and video app businesses to work on this product. Kicksend co-founder Pradeep Elankumaran joined Yahoo six months ago, for instance.That theres now a version live on iTunes indicates that what were seeing today is likely close to a final product. And thefact that its being tucked away on the Hong Kong App Store means that Yahoo was probably hoping to run a public-facing test of the app ahead of a more formal announcement and widerlaunch.Its fair to say that, until now at least, Yahoo had missedopportunities to compete in mobile messaging, despite being one of the earlycompanies to offer instant communication fordesktop users.In the webs younger years,Yahoos Instant Messengerapp was one of the top ways webusers could chat, along withother appslike MSN Messenger and ICQ, for example.But associal media emerged andlarge platforms like Facebook began to dominate the space, Yahoo and other older online messengers lost significantportions of their core audience. That leads to today, where most instant messaging happenson smartphones via SMS, iMessage and other popular apps like Facebook Messenger, Facebook-owned Whatsapp, Snapchat, and others. Meanwhile, Yahoos own entry in this crowded and growing mobile messaging market was left to stagnate.With Yahoo Livetext, its clear that the company is hoping to differentiate its app, despite being a late arrival to this space, by introducing a twist on traditional texting or video. Instead of simply offeringyet another alternative to a smartphones built-in mobile messaging app, Yahoo claims that Livetext is an entirely new way to stay in touch.Notes Yahoo, the idea is to turn simple conversations into memorable experiences, while also working to solve the problemof how to better express ourselves by not relying on typing alone:The advent of smartphones led a shift towards convenience and speed. Weve gone from communicating primarily with our voices to using our fingers to text on glass, reads Livetexts app description. But somewhere, along the way we lost the natural flow of conversation. Our solution is to go back to the basics, by putting your words and your friends real-time reactions at the center of your interaction. Weve removed audio from the equation, as its rarely convenient in todays fast-paced world.This also seems to play on the exploding popularity of gifs  those silent, short clips that punctuate and permeate so much of our web and social media experience these days, and are of course a mainstay of another Yahoo property, Tumblr.The free app uses either a Wi-Fi or cellular connection andis focusedonone-on-one messaging, not group chats, as some had suspected Yahoos messaging re-entry would look.Unlike semi-competitors like Skype, Viber or FaceTime, Livetext doesnt (yet?) support video calling. Instead, one user would begin texting a friend and then when the messages recipient entered the chat session, you would immediately see them. The app also offers user profiles which include a Livetext ID and it can help you find friends based on your address book on your phone.The app is clearly also aimed at younger demographic. Teens and young adults spend a lot of time on their phones andtexting, but like most of us, they cant always take advantage of video calling because theyre in a public place, like a train or ballgame, or somewhere theyre supposed to be quiet, like school.The Hong Kong App Store launch follows the removal of the older Yahoo Messenger app from iTunes this May, which signalledthat a refresh was on the horizon.The Messenger app was removed from the appstore [sic] as it has not been updated in quite a long time, a Yahoo rep noted in a Yahoo Answers forum in response to a question about the app disappearing from the iTunes App Store.We would rather our name be related to fully functional new technology, instead of old and outdated apps. Look for an announcement from us about a new Messenger client coming soon.Weve been looking for an Android version of the new app and have found what appearto be help files related to it but not the app itself. Well update this story as we learn more.Updated details about contributingYahooacquisitions.