Southeast Asia-based VC firm Monks Hill Ventures has welcomed a big name investor to its list of LPs after Yahoo Japan, theinternet portal and $24 billion valuedjoint venture between Yahoo and SoftBank*, invested an undisclosed amountinto its inaugural fund.Monks Hill is a relatively new addition to the investor landscape in Southeast Asia, but it isa firm bubbling with credentials. Founded last year by principalsPeng T. Ong  co-founder of Match.com and founder of NASDAQ-listedInterwoven andKuo-Yi Lim, formerly CEO of Infocomm Investments, its initial fund is targetedat reaching $80 million.There was (and still is, for that matter) room for additional LPs. Yahoo Japan  which invested via itsYJ Capital fund is one such late arrival. Lim told TechCrunch in an interview that the remaining slots forthe first fund  which he said would be active for three to four more years, at the very least will be filled by the end of September.Lim declined to say exactly how much Yahoo Japan added to the coffers, but he called itan important and strategic investor. Beyond a validation for the year-old VC firm, itsa partner that willunlock new opportunities, Lim said.The fund will retain the same focus on startups across Southeast Asia, he explained. But[Yahoo Japans involvement]adds a different dimension in terms of market potential for our portfolio companies.Specifically, the two organizations intend to work together to expand each others networks, source new deals and help portfolio companies enter Japan.To date, Monks Hill  which has offices in Singapore and Jakarta, Indonesia  has opened its purse for just four startups.Lim said, however, that a number of new deals and follow-on investments will be announced soon.Southeast Asia has long attracted interest from Japanese investors, there are at least a dozen firms or funds from the country active in the region. YJ Capital began investing in the region this year  with participation in rounds for Singapores Astroscale and VIP Plaza in Indonesia  and its involvement in Monks Hill Ventures fund suggests that theres a lot more to comeMonks Hill isnt just focused on Southeast Asia, however. A small chunk of its fund is available for general investments, and particularly global firms that expand into Southeast Asia, Lim said. At this point, few companies have made that move, but Lim said he believes that it is still early days.*Point of note: Yahoo is still figuring out exactly what to do with its 35.5 percent share ofYahoo Japan  worth an incredible $9 billion  following its move to spin out its lucrative stake in Alibaba. YahooCFO Ken Goldman recently told an investor callonly that U.S. firmisfocused on maximizing value of our stake in itsJapanese venture.Update: The original version of this story was edited to clarify that YJ Capital is investing in the fund, not Yahoo Japan directly.