Ahead of its Q4 earnings and a bigger restructuring on the cards, Yahoo isdownsizing in its regional operations, specifically in Latin America. TechCrunch has learned and confirmed that Yahoo has closed its officesin Mexico City and Buenos Aires, Argentina. Itsnot pulling out of Latin America altogether: the company is keeping teams in Sao Paulo, Brazil and Coral Gables, Florida.Yahoo is focused on maximizing growth. With that in mind, we communicated to employees in Argentina and Mexico that we will be closing our offices there, a Yahoospokesperson said. Our impacted employees will be treated with respect and fairness through this transition. Latin America is an important region for Yahoo and we will continue to invest in the people and products there. Our teams in Brazil and Coral Gables (Miami) will remain vital to the company. (Attributable to a Yahoo spokesperson)Yahoo declined to sayhow many people are being impacted by the closure; a source says it is less than 50people. The spokesperson said itdoes not plan tooutsource any of its operations to third parties, which is one route that some tech companies have taken to building out and running commercial operations in the region. However, another source tells us that Yahoo is considering doing exactly that.One source tells us that Mexico was one of Yahoos more cost-efficient and profitable operations, if on the small side: the operation only had 10 employees versus 200 in the Brazil office but was putting in one-third the amount of revenue as Brazil, the source says.(And Yahoo Mexico is also the subject of a pretty crazy $2.7 billion lawsuit over a yellow pages deal that went bad several years ago. Yahoo lost but eventually reversed the judgement, and another attempt to reinstate the fine also failed in 2015but it is apparently still being pursued by the plaintiff.)So why the closure? Yahoo is clearing out smaller (even if profitable) operations tohelp reinforce the restructuring and cost-cutting points that will be made around earnings next week, the source says, where there may well be more international cuts announced as well. Brazil, being the B of the BRIC group of large and fast-growing developing markets, is seen as having more potential or at least as being the base for the larger region, even if the returns have yet to bear that out.Under CEO Marissa Mayer, Yahoo has beendownsizing operations in international markets for a while now, for example reducing staff or closing offices altogether inIndia, China, other parts of Asia and Europe and the Middle East.Much of thatwas done in the context of a company in the midst of an aggressive bid to rejuvenate itself: Mayer was also leading the charge on dozens of startup acquisitions to boost Yahoos platform and talent pool after the once-mighty giant of the Internet toiled under years of stagnation, falling behind the likes of Google in keyareas like search and mobile; and the closures in regional operations were about streamlining to focus on Yahoos core business.While some observers may have raised questions about Mayersstrategy, it was largely supported and also came with the knowledge that Yahoo was sitting on another sweet asset: its holdings in Alibaba, amounting to billions of dollars on the balance sheet.There have been reports that the company is planning tolay off some 10%, or 1,000, employees. We have heard from sources close to the company that the numbers are going to be detailed around the time of Yahoos earnings.However, Yahooappears to still be weighing up just exactly what it will do longer term. This report in Reuters, for example, claims Yahoois waiting to see market reaction to its latest earnings  coming out on February 2  before making a decision. To that end, itseems more than coincidental that there are also stories coming out about how the company is still attracting talent and hiring.Update:Since this article was published, one source contacted TechCrunch and saidthat the two operations wereactually profitable. A follow up on Twitter also claims the same:@TechCrunch @ingridlunden #yahoo 's cost of the mx and arg office was minimal and it generated some 10 mil a year. A real shame :( Fernando G. Del Ro (@hobbes3000) January 28, 2016Separately, weve heard from sources that the spectre of closure had been hanging over the offices for a while  how could it not, given the bigger issues that Yahoo was going through  although Yahoo continued to reassure staff that it was business as usual. Again, weve seen Tweets that also support that claim, too.@ingridlunden The news broke yesterday afternoon. The thing is, this is no news to Latam team. It has been waited for at least 18 months. Carlos Carrasco (@Chac) January 28, 2016Hoping for the best for those affected.