Today following the bell, Yahoo reported its thirdquarter financial performance. Not discountingtraffic acquisition costs (ex-TAC), Yahoos revenue for the period totaled $1.23 billion. The company earned $0.15per share during the quarter, using adjusted metrics (non-GAAP).Investors had expected Yahoo to earn $0.17 off $1.26 billion in top line.Down 2 percent in regular trading, shares in Yahoo initially fell in after-hours tradingfollowing its earnings miss. However, news that Yahoo has a new agreement with Google that could bolster its search incomes helped to stabilize its share price. Microsoft will remain a partner to the companys search efforts.Yahoos aggregate revenue grew 7 percent from $1.15 billion in its year-ago quarter.Discounting for traffic acquisition costs, Yahoos revenue fell from $1.09 billion a year ago to $1.00 billion in its most recent quarter.The companys quarterly profit shrinks to $0.08 per share when normal accounting techniques (GAAP) are employed. On a GAAP basis, Yahoos profit totaleda slim $76 million.Yahoo segments its revenue into two core buckets: search and display. In its third quarter, Yahoos GAAP search revenue totaled $509 million, up 2 percent from the comparable year-ago quarter. The companysaw a 5 percent increase in paid clicks, and a 2 percent decline in its average price per click.The companys GAAP display revenue was also $509 million during the third quarter. That figure is up 14 percent from the year-ago period. Yahoo sold 8 percent more ads, and managed to charge 8 percent more for them to boot.However, Yahoos display revenue comes at a cost. The companys traffic acquisition costs were sharply higher during the period. In the third quarter, Yahoo spent $223.22 million acquiring traffic. That figure is up from a far-smaller $54.18 million in the third quarter of 2014.Yahoos initial financial release did not discuss the potential tax status of its planned spinoff of its Alibaba stake. Concerns on the matter have weighed on the companys plans and value.Yahoos quarter came in under expectations, but investors may find some comfort in its new search deal. Well know more after the coming investor call.