As Yahoo continues to weigh up acquisition offers, the company has announced that its reached a deal with activist investor Starboard, which had written one of its famous letters to the troubled Internet companycalling for the whole board to be replaced. Its a compromise in the end: four new board members are getting added effective immediately, including Starboards CEO Jeff Smith, a former MD of Deutsche Bank, a former CEO of the Tribune Company and wait for it the CEO of a patent troll. Two others are standing down,Lee Scott and Sue James.We are pleased to welcome these four new highly respected, independent directors to our board, said Maynard Webb, chairman of Yahoos board of directors, in a statement. The additional board members will bring valuable experience and perspectives to Yahoo during this important time for our company.Given that Yahoo now is weighing up acquisition bids (including one allegedly from the owner of TechCrunch, AOL/Verizon), these are not people whose aim will beto turn the company around and refocus CEO Marissa Mayer, but more to make sure that it plays to whatever strengths it has left in the sale.Tor R. Braham, Yahoos statement notes, was an MD and global head of tech for Deutsche Bank Securities for eight years until 2012, tellingly directly involved in negotiating or executing numerous mergers and acquisitions in the technology industry. Before that he was also working on M&A at Credit Suisse First Boston.Eddy W. Hartensteinbrings in strong media chops with past stints asCEO of the Tribune Company, Chairman, CEO of DIRECTV, and Publisher and CEO of the Los Angeles Times Media Group. (Yahoo has long been eyeing up growing its media business with video and other assets, and while some of that has flopped, content isstill considered a strong area for the company with properties like Yahoo News.)Richard S. Hill, meanwhile, is the chairman ofTessera Technologies. If you dont know what Tessera is, well, its another a sign of how Starboard feels Yahoo will maximise its value down the line.Tessera makes and more importantly licenses technology to the mobile phone industry. It hasbeen referred to as one of the worlds most fearsome patent trolls. Fair or not, Tesserahas been embroiled in patent disputes with Sony, Qualcomm, STMicro and more. Yahoo has had its own share of patent fights in the past. (In one patent soap opera, it sold a trove ofpatents to Microsoft years ago, which then were passedon to Facebook, which Yahoo had been trying to sue over patents) Someone like this could feasibly be getting inserted to examine what is left on this front and how, again, to best monetise it. If patents are one way of marking a companys history, its is a sad, and surprising, ending for a pretty iconic and groundbreaking company. Such is the march of tech, I guess.