Yahoo today said it isshutting down a huge swath of its digital magazines as it rethinks its digital content strategy. A Yahoo spokesperson said Yahoo Tech was not affected by the changes.According toa memo acquired by Capital New York, Yahoo Tech editor in chief Dan Tynan is leaving the company.Capital New York also reported that Yahoo is shuttering its tech vertical and moving some of its staff to Yahoos news vertical. It appears that some of Yahoos content verticals  launched at a high-profile CES event in 2014  were not successful enough to sustain their presence within the greater Yahoo company.On our recent earnings call, Yahoo outlined out a plan to simplify our business and focus our effort on our four most successful content areas  News, Sports, Finance and Lifestyle, the company wrote in a blog post. To that end, today we will begin phasing out the following Digital Magazines: Yahoo Food, Yahoo Health, Yahoo Parenting, Yahoo Makers, Yahoo Travel, Yahoo Autos and Yahoo Real Estate.In early February Yahoo shared a plan for the future, with this new plan came some very difficult decisions and changes to our business, a Yahoo spokesperson told TechCrunch. As a result of these changes some jobs have been eliminated and those employees will be notified today. We thank those employees for their outstanding service to Yahoo and will treat these employees with the respect and fairness they deserve.Taken together,this isnt really surprising. Yahoos core business has been floundering for the past several years  so much so that the company has signaled that it is potentially for sale. Throughout this time, Yahoos stock has plummeted as the company has shown no clear signal to shareholders that it is returning to being a growth company.Marissa Mayer, a former Googler, took over Yahoo in 2012  when there was a lot of hope that she could turn the company around as it transitioned to a primarily mobile-driven company centered around a portfolio of brands. The final goal was to return Yahoo, a powerhouse brand in the early days of the Internet, to being a household name.And, according to everything thats happened in the past few weeks  including reports of a potential sale  all this is a signal that the strategy in place has not worked. Mayer and Yahooare in the hot seat, withthe company beingsomewhatbuoyed by its big stake in Chinese commerce giant Alibaba, a company worth $163 billion.This could bepart of a larger swath of layoffs happening within the company. During the companys last earnings report, Yahoo confirmed that it would lay off about 15% of its staff as part of a greater restructuring. Yahoos core business has been struggling to the point that the company has also had to downsize in operations internationally.Yahoo also shut down Yahoo Screen, its home for original content like the show Community, in January this year.Update: A Yahoo representative says it is not shutting down Yahoo Tech, but the companylisted a slew of magazines that will be shut down. The story, which previously said that the companys tech vertical would be shuttered, has been updated to reflect Yahoos comments.