Amid reports that Russia will be one of the first countries to get access to the new music service that Apple is reportedlylaunching next week, Russian search giant Yandex is enhancing its own. Today it announced Yandex.Radio, an ad-supported streaming musicservice that provides around 100 ready-made stationsto users organised around moods and themes, initially available Russia only.People just like to have some background music while they are working out in a gym, driving to work, or chatting at a party. Alternatively, people choose their background music to match how they feel at the moment  cheerful or vigorous, moody or relaxed, the company says in a blog post about the new service. Yandex.Radio is a service for those who like to choose their music based on their current activity or state of mind.Yandex.Radio will be based around the same music catalog that forms the backbone of Yandex.Music, a service that costs the equivalent of around $5 per month for users to stream any track from the catalog.In a market notorious for music piracy and online platforms that turn a blind eye to unlicensed downloads and streaming, Yandex.Music appears to bethe countrys biggest legit online music outfit. Its still not huge though: only around 10 million users at the moment, Yandex says.We already have a catalogue which we license from more than 70 labels and associations for our first music service  Yandex.Music, a spokesperson tells me. Yandex.Music will continue to exist, but this service is more for new music discovery, while Yandex.Radio is just for listening the music which is being recommended according to the mood and activity.Still, a music streaming business model relies on scale to work economically, and ten million usersis on the low side. When you consider that Russia is currently Europes largest Internet market in terms of active users online, there is a lot of room for growth  and of course for rivals to muscle in and take the current leader on. That is despite the fact that at least one would-be rival, Spotify, canned its own plans to launch in the country earlier this year, citing political and economic turmoil. For its part, Apple extended its iTunes music store to Russia in 2012. And there are other homegrown services as well, such as Zvooq, which raised $20 million in August of last year.To that end, Yandex has been in the process of revamping Yandex.Music with new apps, new recommendation features, and more.Yandex.Radio will tap into that, too. Yandex.Radio uses our proprietary machine-learning technology, which sorts each track into one or several mood or activity channels to then create a playlist for this channel based on personal interests of a user, their recent streaming history, as well their likes or dislikes, the company notes. In other words, if you skip songs, the service will remember that and steer away from themand similar tracks.The service is live now ondesktop, as well via apps foriOS-and Android-baseddevices.