Instavest, a Y Combinator-backed startup, wants to help retail investors benefit from the smart trades of others. It alsowants to help savvy speculators profitbysharing their tradingdata.Investors can list their trades on Instavest, including the company, share amount and rationale behind the investment. Other users can invest alongside the people willing to share their own purchases and sales. If you follow a trade, Instavest encourages you to block out a portion of your profits  in the neighborhood of5 percent  that might arise from the transaction for the original listing entity.The idea arose when the companys founders, Saleem Khatri and Zain Allarakhia, ran into a problem: Friends and family wanted to trade with them, but they lacked a tool to do so effectively.In short, using Instavest, smart investors can increase the potential reward of a winning trade without leaning on margin. Given that the party thatmakes the original trade can only pick up a percentage of a percentage on the capital that it did not bring to the table, it seems likely that most of their own profit will come with their own invested capital, but that could change over time if Instavest is able to attract a large user base.I spoke to the company, which will show off its wares to a cattle car of investors next week at Y Combinators demo day, about its initial growth. Instavestinitially disclosed toTechCrunch that during a closed beta, it quickly picked up 75 users who committed $1.1 million in assets to the platform. However, the company later told TechCrunch that it is now significantly above the 75 user figure, and that individualsare moving capital onto its service rapidly. Presumably, the company will release new numbers atdemo day.Instavest has an interesting growth strategy: Attracting active traders who post on sites like SeekingAlpha. According to the company, every lead [investor] brings an additional 2-3 new users  people whowant to copy that persons trades in particular.While the companys sample size isnt too large  itsclosed beta launched less than two weeks ago Instavestwas willing to release two interesting data points: The average account size on the platform totals $15,000, and the average user executes several trades per month.Instavesttakes a cut of the cut of the profits. So, if an investor follows the trade of another user, and excises 5 percent of their profits for the original trader, Instavest takes 20 percent of that 5 percent, leaving 80 percent for the initial investor. Thats a great way to make money at scale, implying that the company intends to attracta robust number of accounts, and not, therefore, target a niche audience.Instavesthas only raised capital from Y Combinator. Provided that itcan demonstrate continued growth, launch out of beta without faceplanting and continue to accrete invested funds onto its platform, I doubt it will struggle to attract capital.Instavest, alongside other companies like Wealthfront and Seed, are part of a growing set of FinTech and FinServices companies that are taking on a backwards industry, albeit in very different fashions.FEATURED IMAGE: RICHARD MATTHEWS/FLICKR UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE