MicroHealth, a mobile health startup in Y Combinators current class, is launching today to help patients take control of their chronic illnesses.The companywas started by Spanish brothers Dr. Marc Lara and Miguel Lara in 2011, who previously spent 10years researchingdigital health and holding clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center.Through a disease management and doctor communication platform, MicroHealthis attempting tocrowdsourcethe management of rare, chronic conditions, starting with hemophilia.Patients input their symptoms and medicationintake into MicroHealth, which scans prescription labels and prompts them with text messagesto enter periodicupdates.The updatesare shared with the patients doctor who can use the data to regulate dosageorrecommend a different type of medication, and family, especially when the patient is a child.This is especially useful for peoplewho suffer from hemophilia,a condition wherethe body is not able toproduce the protein that makes blood coagulate. If a patient with hemophilia gets a cut, hewont stop bleeding until heintravenouslyinjects enough of this protein.Andtreatment is incredibly expensive  around $300,000 per patient per year, Miguel says.Usually patients will infuse all of the time so they dont get spontaneous bleeds, says Dr. Lara. But two things happen in the real world: they dont take the medication as they should, or they have a metabolism thats not the average.The doses of protein that patients are prescribed, Dr. Lara explains, are basedon the average persons metabolism. Think of it like alcohol consumption: two people whodrink the same amount are likely tohave slightly different reactions, and its difficult to predict exactly how someone will react ahead of time.Currently, 10 percent of hemophilia patients in the U.S. (nearly 3,000 people) are using MicroHealth, and Dr. Lara says theyve seen a 40 percent average reduction inbleeds by properly managing their factor intake.The worst thing would be a bleed in the head, but if theres a bleed in the joints, a patient can be disabled and its all very painful, says Dr. Lara. We see patterns: some patients are bleeding a lot less with certain medications thanothers, and right now doctorsdont know that.By simply prompting patients to log the exact amount of medication thattheyre injecting, and how often theyre getting bleeds, doctors can personalize treatment tomatchthemetabolism and the daily activity of eachpatient.Doctors can also request pictures and additional information from patients, who often live hundreds of miles from hemophilia treatment centers, and set up alerts to be notified if apatient stopslogging hismedication intake.Eventually, with a broader dataset of medication intake and results, MicroHealth will be able to advise patients on more effective courses of treatment or detect outliers, which will inform the drug discovery process.And hemophilia is just the first chronic disease that the company will tackle. The team hasalready started working with rheumatoid arthritis patients, and plan to launch versions of the app for multiple sclerosis and high cholesterol patients in the future.Imagine a patient has cancer, and only so much time to live, so choosing the right medication is saving his life, Miguel says. By analyzing data at a macro level, were going to be able to tell what works and what doesnt work.