An artificial limb can cost more than a car.And there arean estimated 2 million amputees in the United States alone.So for Jeff Huber, an entrepreneurwho had dabbled in education and advertising who happens toalso an amputee, this market was close to heart.While an undergraduate at North Carolina State University, he had long thought about how to make prosthetics at a fraction of their current costs in emerging markets. But he wound up dropping out to do anonline education startup called Knowit and then working on data-driven marketing at MightyHive.After leaving last year, he returned to tinkering on his old ideas around affordable artificial limbs. Now Hubers work has become a startup called Standard Cyborg thats backed by Y Combinator. Hes still the sole founder and employee.For most of hislife, Huber has used aprosthetic leg. He was born with a congenital birth defect that left him without a fully formed fibula.As a growing child, Huber would get a new leg every nine months or so. But once he became an adult, insurance would only cover a new leg ever three to five years. His current leg costs $23,000; for patientswho are above-the-leg amputees, it can cost double.With those kinds of price points, its hard to get special-useprosthetics likeartificial limbs forrunning or other kinds of sports.Huber started interviewing other amputees to figure what they wanted most.At thetop of that list? Shower legs.While Huber taught himself over the years abouthow to shower on one foot, its much more difficultfor elderly patients. More than halfof amputees are over the age of 50, and so a fall in the shower is literally life-threatening.He started looking into how to produce limbs at lower cost. With a workspace in Emeryville, Huber started working with 3D printers and a number of different plastics from polycarbonates to ABS and PLA.Helanded on one material he was hopeful about, but found that it wasnt quite strong enough.So heblended in traditional techniques, by printing a thin flame of plastic covered with carbon fiber.The process has this interesting blend of human and machine labor, he said. Whats interesting is howthemachines help us print the legs. But the machines couldnt designthis on their own.All of Standard Cyborgs prosthetics are custom-made and the finallamination process takes two hours and is done by hand. Even with the more labor-intensive portion,Hubers techniques allow him to sell these prosthetics at $499 a piece. (Update:The list price is actually around $799 when you includeservice fees.)Its the first and only prosthetic leg madewith aprinter thats worth less than $10,000, he said.As for the prosthetics market itself, the industryis dominated by HangerProsthetics and Orthotics, a more than 150-year-old company based in Austin that was founded by a Civil War amputee. They haveroughly a quarter of the market, followed by a long-tail of many other players.Huber is planning to grow through a combination of direct sales and working withprosthetists, who often have cultivated deep bonds with theirpatients through many years of molding and crafting limbs for them.Of course, Huber doesnt just have his eyes on building shower limbs.Im OK with being pigeon-holed ifI can be focused right now. But I wouldnt want to be confined to being a company that builds shower prostheses over the long-term, said Huber, who is also thinking about other use cases like running.This is just a market where there areso few players that they can just charge whatever they want.