How much of thehiring process can you automate?Thats a question that a couple of YC-backed companies are striving to answer in the technical recruiting space.Gradberry, a recruitingplatform that counts 3,000 engineers as users, is launching TARA, an artificial intelligence engine that scans candidates code and shortlists worthy ones automatically.The whole idea ofGradberry is to build a true meritocracy where it doesnt matter what college you went to, said Iba Masood, the companys co-founder.Masood and her co-founder Syed Ahmed both graduated from the American University of Sharjah in the U.A.E., but had problems getting hired because no one had ever heard of their university. In spite of that, they won an MIT-affiliated startup competition in Morocco and moved to Boston.After I graduated from college, I wasnt able to find a job. And when I moved through the process, I started to see thatrecruiters hadspecific biases. Did you go to Yale? Did you go toStanford? Did you go to MIT? shesaid. No, I didnt, but I still got funding from MIT. It just goes toshow that we believe talent is everywhere. Its really all about the work that youve performed in the past.Their new product TARA, which stands forTalent Acquisition and Recruiting Automation, has made close to 800 recommendations in the first three weeks of this month. Masood says thats the equivalent workload of up to 10 full-time recruiters.The program combsthrough code with a five-factor analysis consideringcode complexity, runtime errors and languages. Theyll send client companies unique batches of candidates that match their language and frameworkneeds.Gradberryssoftware is free for companies, but there are enterprise tiers where technical recruiters can use the platform to read code.If a company closes a hire, theyll pay a 5 percent cut of the candidates first year salary.On the candidate side, developers can submit their Github and portfolio links.Gradberry has raised a seed round so far from investors includingEast Ventures, Etsys first investorPayman Pouladdej,Point Reyes e.fund andHKB Capital.It faces competition from another YC-backed company founded by former partner Harj Taggar, who launched another technical recruiting product TripleByte a few weeks ago with acommon application for YC companies. Both companies are trying to remove biases around brand-name universitiesfrom the technical hiring process on the belief that there is a wealth of technical talent out there that is either self-trained or is competent despite having graduated from lesser-known schools.