With e-commercestartups breaking into eyewear, beauty, shaving, monthly subscriptions products and more, there will be plenty ofneed for boxes and packaging.Thats where Pakible, a Y Combinator-backed startup, is hoping to come in.Founded byNick Carson and Phillip Akhzar, who used to work for iPhone and iPad repair startup iCracked, the companymakesit simple for any business to prototype andthen ship product packaging.While at iCracked, they had donepackaging forphone and tablet buyback programs, but found that it was tedious.It was taking forever, said Carson, who said hed have tocall back and forth between dozens of providers to find the right fit.Its a nightmare, andwe wanted it to be easy. We assumed there would be a Teespring for packaging. But there wasnt, so we decided to go ahead and do it.Akhzar added, Manufacturers have this highly optimized process with machines that produce the packaging. Once everythings ready to go, theyjust churn them out rapidly with thousands of units an hour. Theyve invested a lot of money in this. But it doesnt feel like any of them invested in the customer side of the business to actually helppeople to get started easily. That part is all over faxes and e-mails.Carson and Akhzar vowed to eachother that theyd tinker with this idea for six months. In that time, they wereable to get $40,000 worth of letters of intent. Now, theyre atorders for 800,000 units.If you go on their website, theres someonline box designer software where you can choose the type and size of packaging and then customize it with your own text, logos and colors.They startclients off at $1 a box, which they emphasizeis significantly lower than what youd get to do a test-run at different individual packaging makers. The point of that pricing is to get customers hooked for larger orders. The company can handlequantities as small as 10 and as large as 10,000 units.nTheyalso have an in-house designer for more complex needs like custom logo designs. They have racked up partnerships with many kinds of packaging manufacturers who have different techniques and specialize in lithography or photography.Part of our vision is to get to thatpointwhere people have multiple options. Right now, our products are focused for early starters like companies that are launching their own brands, Carson said, referring to Pakibles LaunchPAK Series. But well have upgraded levels of service.Among their initial clients are Level Frames, which does on-demand custom-sized framing. Then theres Sirum,another Y Combinator-backed non-profit that redistributes unused prescription medications.