Googles $3 billion acquisition of Nest made it clear that Internet-connected hardware in the home was a big opportunity. But what about the commercial market?Y Combinator-backed BuildScience is betting that owners of large commercial office buildings are going to want a similar way ofmanaging heating, lighting, utility metering, and security. Butthis startup isnot building itsown hardware. Instead, they are plugging into and building a software platform for existingventilation and lighting systems, which they say havecaught up dramatically in the last five years with the Internet-of-Things wave. They say these systems nowmake use of thousands of sensors, but theres no elegant way of viewing or using that data.Youre looking at billlions of square feet of office space in the United States alone, saidXitij Ritesh Patel, who previously worked at Instagram before co-foundingthe company.The app that Patel and co-founderJaimal Soni have built lets building owners and property managers drill down into floor-by-floor stats on security and lighting among other areas.They can track down unique issues if, say, heating stops working on a certain floor. That data can also go toward managing costs and energy usage better.Patel and Soni, who were based in Canada, are relocating to the Bay Area. They plan to focus on the San Francisco market first by getting tenants who are often other Y Combinator companies  to pushtheir landlord adoption.Many of these building owners are gunning for LEED platinum certification. That helps them attract the best customers and tenants,Soni said. (LEED is a special rating system created by theU.S. Green Building Council.)Soni and Patel havealready deployed their software in a1 million square foot Class A building in Toronto, Canada. Theyretracking 6,000 data end points and say the building is seeing $500,000 per year in savings. Soni says that property managers can handle twice the square footage with the same level of staff using BuildScience.People often have more sensors in their buildings than they realize, Patel said. Its surprising how many people resortto pen and paper.