Koreas Yello Mobile has made a name for itselfraising $100 million and usingit to hooverup more than80 startupsto build its mobile apps business, which now serves 18 million users.Now, Yello Mobile is raisingagain: ithasracked up another $47.2 million in financing, led by existing investor Formation 8. The funding comes as convertible debt at a $4 billion valuation.TechCrunch also understands that another tranche of funding,up to or around double the amount of this raise,will be closed likely by the end of this year, at the same valuation.(Wed actually heard earlier this year that Yello Mobilewas raising money, and so this $47.2 million may have actually closed some months ago but is only getting announced now. To date, the company has raised just under $210 million.)We are proud of the progress we have made establishing Yello Mobile as the clear mobile leader across the SMATO verticals, said Lee Sang-hyuk, founder and CEO of Yello Mobile, in a statement. (SMATO is areference to Shopping, Media, AdTech, Travel, and Offline-to-online and is how Yello reports on its business progress.) Our two leading apps, Coocha and Pikicast, continue to see strong user growth and increasing monetization, and we look forward to using this new capital to drive continued growth in those.The valuation makes Yello one of Koreas most valuable startups  but not the most valuable of all. That title remains with Coupang, the $5 billion e-commerce marketplace backed by the likes of SoftBank and Sequoia.But for all the big numbers, Yellos value seems to be based on potential returns rather than the present state of affairs.Q4 numbers have not yet been reported but in Q3 the company said it made 97.5 billion won ($82 million) in revenues.Going forward, Yelloexpects to be Ebidta-positive in all but the digital media segment in Q4. That is intentional, from what we understand: Yello is currently more focused on building its audience for entertainment services, before offering ads against it (which makes sense, since ads work on an economy of scale basis).Its also progress on its Q3 performance:As you may have seen, Formation 8 is not raising any more funds, with its founding partners now going their own ways with their own independent efforts. To be clear, this latest Yello Mobile capital injectioncomes from Formation 8s last (second) fund. It also has several of Formation 8s limited partnersparticipating directly.The next trancheis likely also to include strategics from China and Japan. We are still working out who these might be but there are a number of companies, including the likes of Tencent, Alibaba and SoftBank, who have strong apps businesses and prolific investment strategies.While Yello has bought a ton of smaller mobile companies, more recently it has turned its attention to integrating them and building out the bigger platform business.Today, that wider platform has five different areas of operations: e-commerce, digital entertainment, online marketing, data analytics and O2O (that is, tech and apps that facilitateoffline-to-online transactions, be they financial or otherwise). Travel is one large segment of the companys business that stretches across several of these.Many of the brands and apps run by Yello wont be household names to the average reader in a market like the U.S. or Europe, but they have some decent traction in Korea, with one-third of the countrys population using one or another of Yellos apps, as well as some growth in South-East Asia.Those appsincludeCoocha, ashopping search app, and Pikicast, a digital media content platform. Coocha has 8 million monthly active users, the company says, growing216% over last year. Pikicast hasan average daily duration time second only to Facebook among media apps in Korea, the company says, and ahead of Instagram.The plan will be to expand the footprintstarting first in Asia, with a lot of opportunity in adjacent markets like China and Japan to build Yellos traction outside of its home turfbefore looking further afield.