Googles recently rebooted Photos appmight be syncing your photos without you realizing it.David Arnott, an editor at the Nashville Business Journal, writes that hefound it was doing just that after he installed the app to testit out and subsequently changed his mind about using it  deleting itfrom his Android phoneand thinking that was the end of Googlesaccess to his photos. Except of course it wasntInstead of my pair of test photos, I saw hundreds of images. They werent synced from my phone in that moment, because I always delete photos from my device once theyve been uploaded. My phone must have been uploading pictures to Google Photos even though I didnt even have Google Photos on my phone.Turns out deleting the Google Photosapp from an Android device is not the same thing as specifically telling Google to switchoff the Google Photosbackup syncing feature. Android users wanting to do the latter have to know to access theGoogle settings page on their phonein ordertoggle the backupfunction off.Google apparently told Arnott the backup was as intended, specifyingthat syncing must be switched off in thesettings in Google Play Services. Android Central notes that the Google Photos settings were centralized to the phonessettings app when the app was migrated out of Google Plus. What happened to Mr. Arnott, and could happen to anyone who assumes that services are tied to a particular front-end, is that he uninstalled the Photos app but never turned off the backup component, it notes.tl;dr: dont assume anything when it comes to Google and your data. Or indeed, cloud syncing services and your data. Such services are typically structured to be device- and app-instance independent  given they are intended to work across devices and in the background. Sodeleting one installation of a cloud app might notbe the same asnixing awhole service. Or, to put it another way, you might just be removing one sucker from thetentacle youve attached toyour digital person, rather thandislodging the entire octopus.The main problem here, from a user point of view, is the opacity of cloud infrastructure  meaning theaverage person should reallybe forgiven for thinking that deleting an app is the same thing as opting out of/switching off aservice. The modern smartphone user is accustomedto apps and digital services being super simple to sign up to and use. The same simplicity doesnot, however, always extend to opting out of a service or gaining access to fine-grained controls. This sort ofUX design asymmetry can be explained by the fact that the service makers incentive is pushing one way: to keep a user using.User control issues arelikely to become more pressing as connected devices linked to innumerate cloud platforms proliferate. The hunt fordefinitivevirtual controls in such murky waters, when the IoT item itself might not even have a screen, could well drive users to newdepthsof confusion. (On the flip side, a user-friendly IoT service layer that canstreamline access and simplify controlsformultipleconnected bits and bobs has the chance to win big.)We reachedoutto Google to askwhy, in this instance, it doesnt throw its users a bone by offering a prompt askingwhether they wish to disable Google Photoscloud back-up featureif/when they uninstall the app, rather than requiring they realizethat control settings for background syncingare located elsewhere. The companydecline to comment. (Its not the first time Googlehas come under fire for opaquecontrols either.)Update:Google has now provided the following statement to TechCrunch:Some users have uninstalled the Photos app on Android without realising backup as an Android service is still enabled. This is something we are committed to resolving.We are working to make the messaging clearer as well as provide users who uninstall the Photos app an easy way to also disable backup. In the meantime, if youve deleted the Photos app and would like to turn off backup on your Android device, please go to GoogleSettings, select GooglePhotosbackup and toggle the switch at the top tooff.Googleunchained Photos from its Google Plus social networkback in May, in an attempt to drive usage of a backupservice that had been hampered by association with the less popular Google Plus network. The new Google Photosoffersunlimited cloud storage anda machine learning algorithm thatpowers natural language searches, making itsimplefor users to search their photo archive via keywords. Google also applies its algorithmic intelligence to derive other datafrom user photos, such as the snappers location, even when images are not geotagged.While such features promise to simplifyimage search,they also underlinehow much intelligence Google can pull from smartphone usersimage archives  data which it can then use to further flesh out the user profiles thatpower its ad-targeting business.