This morning at TechCrunch Disrupt NY, Yik Yak founders Brooks Buffington and Tyler Droll spoke as to why they believe their anonymous social app has soared while others in the space have instead folded. A sort of hyperlocal anonymous Twitter, Yik Yak initially grew in popularity with a younger demographic, especially those in high schools and colleges. But being an anonymous app has its challenges, the founders quickly found out.As the app became hugely popular with high schoolers, it started making headlines for being a home to vicious cyberbullying  something that every other anonymous app on the market has faced at some point. This is usually a make or break moment for a company.For instance, Secrets failure to quickly address the bullying on its network eventually led to its downfall.Yik Yak, to its credit, took a different route. Instead of turning a blind eye to the problem, the company actually shut down access to its app on high school campuses. By using geo-fencing technology, Yik Yak basically banned users from reachingits content while at school  one of the only ways that an app that doesnt haveprofiles or knowits userdemographics could have blocked this segment of peoplefrom its service.A risky move at the time, the geo-fencing certainly could have impacted Yik Yaks then-skyrocketing growth. But as Droll explained this morning, the company wanted good growth, not growth at all costs.Today the app is blocked at the majority of high schools around the U.S., but is still hugely popular on college campuses. It has a presence at nearly every major university in the country, in fact.That doesnt mean that college users are necessarily more mature when it comes to the content they post in their communities, of course. But the founders believe that anonymity, when done correctly, can have value  especially in todays ego-driven age where popularity is counted by likes and favorites and other trackable metrics across social services.Explains Buffington, the value to anonymity onYik Yak is that it allows for a level playing field.The quiet kid is judged the same as the most popular kid, he says.Plus, it allows users to move more freely between their multiple personas or interests, he notes. You can be who you want to be on Yik Yak.However, while sometimes lumped into the same group of anonymous social apps that includes the now-defunct Secret, Whisper and the latestcyberbullying troublemaker AfterSchool, Yik Yak is trying to differentiate itself by focusing first on community, and secondly on anonymity, the founders explained.Buffington said that what people really like about the service is feeling like theyre connected to that community, not the anonymous aspect. People feel such an attachment to this group of people, headded.Still, policing its community is something that Yik Yak has to carefully consider as it grows. The team currently utilizes the combination of both a smaller in-house team of moderators (who are also tasked with other duties), as well as an outsourced, overseas team of moderators. These people help to locate and remove inappropriate content on the service.But backstage after the co-founderschat, Droll stressed, too, that its the Yik Yak community itself thathelps a lot when it comes to managing the content. Because the app includes an upvote and downvote mechanism, users can help keep items of lesser value from gaining in popularity. Users canalso downvote items that dont sound legitimate.At times, thismodel seems to be working. Amid a series of negative news stories moderator Jordan Crook pointed to on stage as indicative of the problems with Yik Yaks anonymous nature, the founders instead zeroed in on one thatshowed how anonymity can actually be advantageous in some cases.A U-M student had posted on Yik Yak they were having thoughts of suicide around exam time, and the community responded by hosting a suicide prevention rally on campus.Someone may not have posted that on another form of social media, said Buffington. But here they posted that, and the community banded together as a result.The founders also spoke of how Yik Yak has been used to bring people together for blood drives, to help users find a lost dog, or even connect two people who began dating as a result of being on the service.That being said, Yik Yaks moderation system is clearly far from perfect. The company is regularly cited as a home to violent threats, racist remarksand other unseemly content. One could even argue that its this sort of salacious content and gossip that draws in users in the first place.But the company has been working on natural language technology that will help to increase its capacity for detecting the bad content, allowing it tomove beyond a sole reliance on human moderators.Now the question for Yik Yak, which is backed by over $73.5 million in outside investment, is whether its approach to anonymous social can scale  and eventually monetize. The company says its expanding its service into the U.K., Canada and Australia, and soon, other countries, as well. Its also fighting off a lawsuitfrom an alleged third co-founder, which hasnt yet settled.Droll saidone of the biggest challenges the company has ahead of it is expanding beyond colleges and to other countries, while Buffington noted, too, that it was critical that Yik Yak set the right tone as it arrives in these new markets.Once its set, you cant change it, he said.And of course, theres also the question ofhow Yik Yak will make money  as Crook joked, dont worry about the money is something they say in Silicon Valley, but in New York they say worry about the money  a nod to the conferences New York location.Butthat $70+ million in outside funding allows Yik Yaksco-founders to delay thinking about monetization for some time. Local ads are in the back of their minds, said Buffington, but they are not even looking to test that yet. Instead, the company has the freedom to focus on the user experience and growth, which is what they plan to do.