
Tom Collinger is the executive director of Northwestern's Spiegel Research Center.Brands know that customer reviews play an integral role in consumers purchasing decisions, especially online. As such, they work hard to drive the highest ratings they can. And yet, its the presence of less-than-five-starreviews that can actually be what drives purchase.Recent data analysisacross 40 product categories looked at the impact of reading reviews on purchases. Northwestern Universitys Spiegel Research Center and PowerReviews found that, in moderation, bad reviews actually help boost sales.In fact, product purchases were most influenced by reviews with an averagestarrating between 4.2 and 4.5, according to research from GetApp. Products with five-starratings were less influenced, likely due to todays skeptical consumers  too good to be true sensibilities.Having a few less-than-perfect reviews decreases a products averagestarrating, but grows the business more.Why are five-starreviews too good to be true? We think its authenticity.Theres a healthy cynic in us all. We know nothing is perfect. So when a consumer sees only five-starreviews, they smell something fishy, something that causes their BS meter to go off.They know that some negative opinions about a product, service or place are to be expected, and become suspicious when something is marketed as perfect. And asAmazon recently filed a lawsuitagainst more than 1,000 sellers of fake four- and five-starreviews, consumers are scrutinizing reviews more closely than ever before  and have reason to do so.Healthy skepticism is growing for advertising, journalism and, so too, for perfect product reviews. A mix of good and bad reviews demonstrates a brands transparency, and may well signal that the reviews displayed on your website are not fake or filtered. In fact, some shoppers might go so far as toignore brands or productswith only five-starreviews and look for a more genuine alternative.While its important to include a mix ofstarratings, it doesntmean brands shouldntemphasize top reviews. Consider the following practices:Offer several options for reading reviews, from highest to loweststarrating or by ranking those as most helpful. This same strategy can be used for product offerings, your blog and other content. Include several options for current and potential customers to find the information they seek; customers are always receptive to a more personalized experience.The content of the reviews is another influencer of purchase behavior. When consumers read thereviewto find out why the product received a specific rating, what may appear to be a negativereviewcan prompt a purchase.For example, if a product has a four-starrating instead of five because the reviewer thinks its not the right shade of red, it may be just the message to prompt another purchaser to buy.Eighty-twopercent of consumersspecifically seeknegative feedback, so it should be made available to customers. As our research reflects, maximizing the value of customer reviews to drive purchases demands the presence of less-than-five-starreviews. Also, while brands seek ways to improve their product or service offering, fewerthan five stars provides authentic and valuable insight to make strategic improvements.Our research revealed that, in some categories, reading areviewcan not only have an impact on purchase, but a dramatic one. So, to make consumer reviews matter most to consumers, its important to encourage all reviews, avoid hiding negative ones, offer customers the opportunity to expand on their reviews and act on customer reviews based on specific feedback.The consumer is expecting the brands they choose to not just offer a great product, but to listen, respond and, per our research,stay authentic.