
Jarno M. Koponen is a designer, humanist and previously a co-founder of media discovery startup Random.As humanity debates the threats and opportunities ofadvanced artificial intelligence, we are simultaneously enabling thattechnology through the increasing use of personalization that is understandingand anticipating our needs through sophisticated machine learning solutions. Ineffect, while using personalization technologies in our everyday lives, we are contributing in a real way to the development of the intelligent systems wepurport to fear.Perhaps uncovering the currently inaccessiblepersonalization systems is crucial for creating a sustainable relationshipbetween humans and superintelligent machines?Industry giants are currently racing to develop more intelligentand lucrative AI solutions. Google is extending the ways machine learning canbe applied in search, and beyond. Facebooks messenger assistant M is combiningdeep learning and human curators to achieve the next level in personalization.With your iPhone youre carrying Apples digitalassistant Siri with youeverywhere; Microsofts counterpart Cortana can live in your smartphone, too.IBMs Watson has highlighted its diverse features, varying fromcomputer visionand natural language processing to cooking skills and business analytics.At the same time, your data and personalized experiences areused to develop and train the machine learning systems that are powering the Siris,Watsons, Ms and Cortanas. Be it aspeech recognition solution or arecommendation algorithm, your actions and personal data affect how thesesophisticated systems learn more about you and the world aroundyou.The less explicit fact is that your diverse interactionsyour likes, photos, locations, tags, videos, comments, route selections,recommendations and ratings feed learningsystems that could somedaytransform into superintelligent AIs with unpredictable consequences.As of today, you cant directly affect how your personaldata is used in these systems.In these times, when were starting to use serious resourcesto contemplate the creation of ethical frameworks for superintelligentAIs-to-be, we also shouldfocus on creatingethical terms for the use ofpersonal data and the personalization technologies that are powering the developmentof such systems.To make sure that you as an individual continue to have ameaningful agency in the emerging algorithmic reality, we need learningalgorithms that are on your side and solutionsthat augment and extend yourabilities. How could this happen?Smart devices extend and augment your memory(no forgotten birthdays) and brain processing power (no calculating in yourhead anymore). And they augmentyour senses by letting you experience thingsbeyond your immediate environment (think AR and VR).The web itself gives youaccess to a huge amount of diverse informationand collective knowledge. The next step would be that smart devices and systemsenhance and expand your abilities even more. What is required for that tohappen in a human-centric way?Algorithmic systems and personaldata are too often seen as something abstract, incomprehensible anduncontrollable. Concretely, how many really stopped using Facebook or Googleafter PRISM came out in the open? Or after we learned that we are exposed tocontinuous A/Btesting that is used to develop even more powerful algorithms?More and more people are getting interested in dataethics and algorithmic accountability. Academics are already analyzing theeffects of current data policies andalgorithmic systems. Educationalorganizations are starting to emphasize the importance of coding and digital literacy.Initiatives such as VRM, Indie Web and MyData areraising awarenesson alternative data ecosystems and data management practices. Big companieslike Apple and various upcoming startups are bringing personal data issues tothe mainstream discussion.Yet we still need new tools and techniques to become moredata aware and to see how algorithms can be more beneficial for us as uniqueindividuals. We need apps and data visualizations with great user experience toilluminate the possibilities of more human-centric personalization.Its time tocreate systems that evaluate algorithmic biases and keepthem in check. More accessible algorithms and transparent data policies are created only throughwider collaboration that brings together companies, developers, designers,usersand scientists alike.Personalization technologies are already augmentingyour decision making and future thinking by learning from you andrecommendingto you what to see and do next. However, not on your own terms. Rather thanletting someone else and their motives and values dictate how the algorithmswork and affect your life, its time to create solutions, such as algorithmicangels, that let you develop and customize your own algorithms and choose howthey use your data.When youre in control, you can let your personal learningsystem access previously hidden data and surface intimate insights about yourown behavior, thus increasing your self-awareness in an actionable way.Personallearners could help youdevelop skills related to work or personal life, augmenting and expanding your abilities. For example,learning languages,writing orplaying new games. Fitness or mediation apps powered by your personal algorithmswould know you better than any personal trainer.Googles experiments with deep learning and imagemanipulation showed us how machine learning could be used to augment creativeoutput. Systems capable of combiningyour data with different materials likeimages, text, sound and video could expand your abilities to see and utilizenew and unexpected connections around you.In effect, yourpersonal algorithmcan take a mind-expanding trip on your behalf, letting you see music or senseother dimensions beyond normal human abilities. By knowing you, personal algorithms can expose you to new diverse information, thus breaking your existing filterbubbles.Additionally, people tinkering with their personalalgorithms would create more citizen algorithm experts, like citizenscientists, coming up with new ideas, solutions andobservations, stemming from real live situations and experiences.However, personally adjustable algorithms for the general publicare not happening overnight, even though Google recently open-sourced parts ofits machine learning framework.But its possible to see how todays personalizationexperiences can someday evolve into customizable algorithms that strengthenyour agency and capacity to deal with otheralgorithmic systems.The next step is that your personal algorithms become a more concrete part ofyou, continuously evolving with you by learning fromyour interactions both indigital and physical environments. Your algorithmic self combines your personalabilities and knowledge with machine learning systems that adapt to you andwork for you. Be ityour smartwatch, self-driving car or an intelligent homesystem, they can all be spirited by your algorithmic self.Your algorithmic self also canconnect with otheralgorithmic selves, thus empowering you with the accumulating collective knowledgeand intelligence. To expand your existingskills and faculties, youralgorithmic self also startsto learn and act on its own, filtering information,making online transactions and comparing best options on your behalf. Itmakesyou more resourceful, and even a better person, when you can concentrate onthings that really require your human presence and attention.Partly algorithmic humans are not bound byexistinghuman capabilities; new skills and abilities emerge when human intelligence is extendedwith algorithmic selves. Forexample, your algorithmic self can multiply toexecute different actions simultaneously. Algorithmic selves could also createsimple simulations by playing out different scenariosinvolving your real-life choicesand their consequences, helping you to make better decisions in the future.Algorithmic selves tuned by your data and personallearners also couldbe the key when creating invasive human-computerinterfaces that connect digital systems directly toyour brain, expanding humanbrain concretely beyond the wetware.But to ensure that your algorithmic self works for yourbenefit, could you trust someone building that for you without youparticipating in the process?Machine learning expert Pedro Domingos says in his new bookThe Master Algorithm that [m]achine learning will not single-handedlydetermine the future its what wedecide to do with it that counts.Machines are still far from human intelligence. No one knowsexactly when superintelligent AIs will become concrete reality. But developingpersonal machine learning systemscould enable us to interact with anyalgorithmic entities, be it an obtrusive recommendation algorithm or asuperintelligentAI.In general, being more transparent on how learningalgorithms work and use our data could be crucial for creating ethical andsustainable artificial intelligence. And potentially,maybe we wouldnt need tofearbeing overpowered by our own creations.