
Ram Palaniappan, founder of Activehours.The financial services industry in America is locked into a business model of exploitation. For far too long, this has gone largely unchecked and unquestioned, even when advances in technology mean it doesnt have to be so.Technological advancements in everything from communication to transportation have streamlined our daily lives, and new, inventive solutions to age-old problems appear every day. But the financial services sector still looks largelylikeit did 50 or even 100 years ago. Why has it taken so long for these types of updates to appear where  in many ways  theyre needed most?The biggest problem has been in our thinking. Weve come to view financial services not as an exchange, but as an opportunity for businesses to extract as much monetary value as possible from the customer. Companies use sophisticated pricing tools to exploit every customer disadvantage, be it their own unique circumstances, their behavior or lack of choice.This exploitative system leaves customers feelingliketheyve been treated unfairly, and each transaction creates moral debton the part of the business. This is akin to alandlordattempting to gauge his tenants for money by unfairly raising rent costs, minimizing repairs and making monthly rent payments difficult (money orders required). Not all landlords are so unpleasant, but many banks are.Theres a famous real-life story of a$35 cup of coffeecaused by surprisebankfees. Often the blame is focused on the individual, but this is only because people have ignored the larger systemic issue at play. That is, until now.These types of exploitative practices are finally beginning to attract attention, even from President Obama, who was recently quoted as saying, We dont mind seeing folks make a profit. But if youre making that profit by trapping hard-working Americans into a vicious cycle of debt, then youve got to find a new business model, you need to find a new way of doing business. When you consider that Americans spent more than $32 billion onbankoverdrafts alone in 2013,morethan what our country spends on fresh vegetables, hes not wrong.Picture a world where customers are happy about paying for services because of the value they deliver, where they want the companies they deal with to succeed and where they feellikethey are collaborating with the company and its other customers as part of a society. It isnt as far out of reach as you might think.Emerging quietly, the pay what you want business model has been spreading across industries, frommusictogamingtomagazinesubscriptions, and yes, even to financial services. When customers pay what they think is fair, a companys profit depends solely on the customers experience. If a company treats its customers with respect and fairness, shows that it truly cares about the people it serves, and provides a valuable service, customers will reciprocate with the positive act of giving and supporting that company.No one has beenmoreoutspoken against antiquated and unfair banking practices than millennials, who wouldrather go to the dentistthan listen to banks. As they mature, millennials are posing the single biggest threat to the industry as this tech-savvy generation continues to seek alternatives to the services banks have traditionally provided, such as access to earnings, budgeting and wire services. Technology has been quick to offer powerful alternatives that are giving customers what they really want  the respect and quality they deserve.In the new world,bankfee structures are already beginning to crumble under the weight of their outdated methodology and consumers are gaining influence. Withmoreoptions than ever, consumers are beginning to look at banks as a service industry that should depend on the quality of their work to keep their customers happy and turn a profit, muchlikeservers at a restaurant. This is a world that weshould- and will - strive to create. Its not acceptable for a few to benefit from the exploitation of many. We can build amorecollaborative society through shared value creation that works for the benefit of all.Banks always do whats in their best interest. In this case, giving customers better services without a side of exploitative practices is in their best interest. The question is, can they keep customers coming back when theyre no longer the only game in town?