The ink is barely dry on Alibabas billion dollarinvestment in Southeast Asias Lazada, but already we have news of another Rocket Internet divestment. Zalora, Rocket Internets fashion-focused site that raised over $250 million and was once on an equal footing with $1.5 billion-valued Lazada, is shedding two of its lacklustercountry businesses to cut down on costs, TechCrunch has learned.Rocket Internet made big moves to fill the e-commerce voidin Southeast Asia, a region with over 550 million people but no service from Amazon or eBay, when it started Lazada and Zalora in 2012. Both eyed profitability by 2015, but the two companiescontinue to pull in heavy losses thanks a combination of factors, including aggressive early targets and slowmarket growth.Zalora,Rocket Internetstake on Zappos, has deemed its businesses in Thailand and Vietnam surplus to requirements and it is in the process of selling both,a source close to Rocket Internet told TechCrunch.A Zalora spokesperson declined to comment.Alongside The Iconic, Zaloracovers 11 countries across Asia Pacific, including Indonesia, Taiwan and Australia. Our sourcesaidthe company is now focusedoncountries where it is on the verge of profitability and Thailand and Vietnam dont figure in that equation. Zalora may opt to sell other business further down the line to further streamline its spending.According to Rocket Internets latest financial results, Zaloras revenue rose 78 percent to208 million ($234 million) in 2015, but its net loss increased36 percent to93.5 million ($105 million.) Its financesmay not be as direas Lazadasbut, as some have noted, Zaloras cash reserves cant be far from depletion so cost-cutting is on the agenda.Like Lazada, Zalora has been shopped to investors and potential acquirers for some time, our source told us. However, while Rocket Internet was seeking to exit Lazada in its entirety, it is breaking Zaloraout into chunks that are for sale in specific markets. That may be because the company is part of Global Fashion Group (GFG), its group of fashion-focused e-commerce players worldwide, whiletheres no obvious buyer  unlike Lazada which had Alibaba. (Zaloras valuation is unclear because it is part of GFG, which was valued at $3 billion when it raised funding last summer.)TechCrunch understands that a local conglomerate has agreed to purchase Zalora Thailand for just$10 million, although the deal isnot closed yet.The acquirer of the Vietnam business is not known right now.(Incidentally,Rocket Internet sold Foodpanda Vietnam last year.)The timing of these exits is particularly interesting. Japans Rakuten recently quitSoutheast Asia  selling its Thailand-based business in the process  while Alibaba bought that majority stake in Lazada just before the company ran out of cash. Rocket Internet bagged a respectable 15X return on its investment, but other investors were left disappointed with modest exitsafter being sold on the ambitious visionof building Lazada intothe Amazon of Southeast Asia.Southeast Asia has long sat in the shadow of larger markets like China and India, but, with over 500 million consumers and a raising middle class, it has potential to be very significant. However, with just three percent of commerce happening online, inconsistentlogistics and differingcultures across the region, building a successful e-commerce business ishugely challenging and capital intensive.These sales appear to mark a new focus for Rocket Internet in Asia. The companyhas spent the past few years developing companies with serious scale  like Lazada, Zalora and Foodpanda  but it recently announced a new strategythat takes it back tolaunchingearly-stage startupsin the region  such as budget hotel network Zen Rooms.It isnt just Southeast Asia whereit isgetting out of its more capital-intensive businesses. Beyond Lazada and Zalora, Rocket Internet sold India-based Fab Furnish this month, and it is reportedly looking for buyers to take Foodpanda India and e-commerce player Jabong off its hands.